"40 On deposits, the annual dynamic more than doubled as of December 2024 end compared to December 2023 end, reaching +14.3%* YoY (vs +6.0%* YoY at December 2023 end). Both individual and corporate savings registered a double-digit annual growth. After a year of contraction, the foreign exchange component returned to growth during the second half of the year, mostly driven by higher inflows from corporate segment (+42.4%* YoY at December 2024 end), while the collection in local currency kept stronger on individuals segment (+16.1%* YoY at December 2024 end). On asset quality, the Romanian banking sector remains classified into EBA’s “low risk” bucket with a level of NPL (non-performing loans) ratio <3% and NPL coverage ratio > 55%. As at December 2024 end, NPL ratio increased marginally to the level of 2.46% (vs. 2.37% at December 2023 end). NPL coverage ratio stood high at 67% at September 2024 end (vs. 65% at December 2023 end). The Romanian banking system remains well capitalized, as reflected by the solid capital adequacy ratio of 23.7% as of December 2024 end (vs. 23.6% as of December 2023 end), higher than EU average (20.1% at September 2024 end) and significantly above the overall capital requirements (17.3% as of September 2024 end). This is helped by the high rate of incorporation of profit and potentially by the new regulatory temporary treatments (implemented through art 468 and art 500a of CRR3 in July 2024. On the medium term, a potential negative factor on the capital position could be the implementation of the Basel IV directive (published as of May 2024 end), which may lead to an increase of capital requirements for Romanian banks of 3.6% of risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”) on average by the time it is fully implemented in 2028 (as per NBR Financial Stability Report, June 2024). The Romanian banking system also boasts a strong liquidity position, with a Liquidity Coverage Ratio of 254.9% as of December 2024 end (vs. 280.6% at December 2023 end), remaining well above the minimum regulatory requirement (100%) and the EU average (161.4% at September 2024 end). * variation at constant exchange rate Source: BRD Research, IMF, NBR"
"64 8. CONSOLIDATED SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 8.1. General Disclosures Basis for Preparation IRO 2-59 BP 1-5- a,b Framework and Data Selection This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 amending Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, Directive 2004/109/EC, Directive 2006/43/EC and Directive 2013/34/EU, as regards corporate sustainability reporting (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive – CSRD), the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS), alongside the requirements of Article 8 of EU Regulation 2020/852 on establishing a framework to facilitate sustainable investment (EU Taxonomy) and the local legislation transposing CSRD ((NBR Order no. 27/2010 for approving accounting Regulations in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, republished, with subsequent amendments).). The disclosures included in the Environmental Information, Social Information and Governance Information (ESG) chapters (Topical Chapters) have been assessed as material according to our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA)16 or are mandatory according to the ESRS Standards. All disclosure requirements and data points corresponding to topics and sub-topics that resulted as immaterial during the DMA17, are not included in this statement. After the identification of material topics in the DMA, the EFRAG Guidance was used to map the material sustainability matters to the relevant disclosure requirements. Measurement Basis The International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) accounting policies as presented in the annual financial statements have been applied consistently in the financial year. Calculation methodologies used are listed on the pages with the relevant metrics and references. Consolidation The Sustainability Statement for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 (the Sustainability Statement) has been prepared on a consolidated basis, and is aligned with the perimeter used for preparing the IFRS Financial Statements. The scope of consolidation is indicated in Note 2 b) Basis for consolidation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and comprises BRD Groupe Société Générale S.A. (the “Bank” or “BRD”), BRD Sogelease IFN S.A. (BRD Sogelease), BRD Asset Management SAI S.A. (BRD Asset Management) and BRD Finance S.A.18. For the purpose of the Sustainability Statement the consolidated entity (BRD and its subsidiaries) 16 DMA has been performed based on data available at the time when the analysis was realized. Improvements will be considered in the next reporting cycles. 17 For more information please refers to the Annex chapter, table - Content Index - list of the Disclosure Requirements 18 As at 31 December 2024, BRD Finance S.A. was in a run off process planned to be finalized in 2025 (under voluntary liquidation), with its activity kept at a minimum level, thus not influencing materially the disclosures in the Sustainability Statement."
"65 BP 1-5-d BP 2-5- 15 BP 2-5- 17 BP 1-5-c BP-2-9 BP-2-10 BP-2-11 BP-2-16 IRO-2-56 is referred to as „the Group” or „BRD Group”, and its immediate and ultimate controlling party, Société Générale S.A., is referred to as the “SG Group” or “SG”. For the preparation of the Sustainability Statement, BRD Group has not used the option to omit information corresponding to intellectual property, know-how or the results of innovation. Additionally, within this statement mainly mandatory and material disclosures and data points according to ESRS and EFRAG guidance are included. We have also utilized the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards to determine key metrics relevant for specific material IROs presented under the Chapter “Consumers and end-users”. Phase-in option in accordance with ESRS 1 Appending C, has been adopted for specific the following disclosures: ESRS 2 SBM 3, ESRS E1-9. BRD Group’s Value Chain The information included in the Sustainability Statement covers the value chain of BRD Group, including upstream, own operations and downstream, and joint ventures & associates. The DMA has taken into account material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities (IROs) to the extent that BRD Group has ready access to the information. In future we consider expanding this analysis, as the CSRD develops. BRD Group’s value chain consists of the following components: - Upstream & Own Operations, which include the ownership of buildings, IT equipment, direct consumption, supplier relationships, human resources and compliance. - Downstream, which encompasses BRD Group’s core financial services’ clients, including retail, non-retail, leasing and asset management. BRD Group serves a diverse client base, including private individuals, small businesses, SMEs, and large corporations, reflecting the broad impact of its financial activities across the economy. - Joint Ventures & Associates, such as BRD Asigurări de Viață S.A. and CIT ONE S.A, which operate as business partners within BRD Group’s ecosystem. While these entities are not fully consolidated within BRD Group’s operations, they are considered in the value chain analysis, particularly in areas where their activities intersect with BRD Group’s financial services. Additionally, the Sustainability Statement provides detailed information on policies, actions, targets, and metrics that extend across the entire value chain, including BRD Group’s own operations and its relationships with upstream suppliers, downstream clients, and joint ventures & associates. Disclosures in Relation to Specific Circumstances For the preparation of the Sustainability Statement, BRD Group has adopted the same definition for short (1 year), medium (up to 5 year) and long-term (more than 5 years) as indicated by ESRS 1 section 6.4 paragraph 77. When data was not available, averages or proxies were used. Details on the estimates, data sources and any potential measurement uncertainties or assumptions are provided within the relevant Topical Chapters. For more details, please see the information reported below in the section “Disclaimer”. For a list of information incorporated by reference, please refer to the Annex Chapter."
"66 BP-2-12 The List of disclosure requirements and the List of datapoints in cross-cutting and Topical Standards that derive from other EU legislation are reported in the Annex Chapter. In developing its consolidated Sustainability Statement, the Group has not relied upon other European standards nor on data and processes verified by an external assurance provider other than the provider of limited assurance for this report. Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the frameworks, guidelines, policies, effectiveness of the actions, targets and metrics presented in this Sustainability Statement are not validated, audited, certified or assessed by or based on the opinion of an external body other than the assurance provider for this statement. Disclaimer Estimates and uncertainties Information related to sustainability is often subject to uncertainties stemming from the state of scientific and economic knowledge, as well as the quality of both internal and external data, such as those used for for the value chain. Moreover, prospective information, unavailable data, and the quantification of certain sustainability metrics - particularly environment data - rely on estimates and judgements based on BRD Group’s experience and internationally recognized sustainability standards. These estimates depend heavily on the hypotheses and methodological choices made. Use of estimates and associated limitations Sustainability metrics, especially those related to the BRD Group’s value chain like CO2 emissions, are based on estimates, averages, or assumptions, leading to data volatility and quality uncertainties. When direct measurement isn't possible, data from customers or external providers introduce potential inaccuracies. In the absence of specific information, sector and geographical averages are used, which may not accurately reflect the BRD Group’s customer portfolio. Greenhouse gas emissions related to financing activities often require combining multiple data sources. Emission factors, which convert consumption data into greenhouse gas emissions (GHG, in tons of carbon dioxide equivalent - tCO2eq), vary by source and context. CO2 emissions span various categories, each with inherent uncertainties. Additionally, differing methodological practices and changing regulations complicate CO2 emissions estimation across the value chain. Details on data or estimate limitations are provided in the metric descriptions. The BRD Group is committed to improving practices and methodologies as standardized, high- quality data become more available from external partners. Uncertainties inherent in forward-looking information The sustainability statement includes objectives and forward-looking statements reflecting the BRD Group’s ambitions. This information should be used cautiously, as it's based on current beliefs and economic forecasts and is subject to significant uncertainties beyond the BRD Group's control. These statements do not guarantee the realization of all ambitions. The sustainability statement outlines the BRD Group’s trajectory in line with CSRD and ESRS obligations, not a definitive outcome."
"67 BRD Group Governance Practices GOV 1- 22- a,d Sustainability Governance At BRD Group level, the Board of Directors (BoD) holds ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Group’s Sustainability Strategy, ensuring the effective management of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs). This includes defining long-term objectives and targets that align with the BRD Group’s commitments to stakeholders, regulatory compliance and broader ESG priorities. The BoD ensures that sustainability considerations are integrated into the BRD Group’s strategic direction, reinforcing alignment with regulatory frameworks, stakeholder expectations and the overarching sustainability commitments of Société Générale Group (SG). Through its governance role, the BoD drives responsible decision-making, monitors progress on sustainability initiatives and ensures that BRD Group remains resilient in addressing ESG challenges and opportunities. The Executive Committee (EC) is responsible for implementing the Sustainability Strategy across all relevant business lines and functions, ensuring that the defined targets are translated into actionable plans across business units. To support these efforts, the Sustainability Committee - ESG, established in 2021 and chaired by the CEO of the Bank, functions as a permanent decisional body focused on strategic CSR and ESG analysis. The members of this committee consist of permanent members, CEO together with the rest of the EC, General Secretary, ESPIF Director, Acquisitions (ACH) Director, Executive Director Financial Risk Poling, and guests from other departments (i.e. compliance, legal, logistics, human resources, business lines). This committee’s mission is to establish the actions required to implement sustainability, climate, and environmental strategies and policies in line with Bank’s objectives, The Committee’s meetings in 2024 addressed CSRD obligations, including Sustainability Strategy. A key responsibility of the committee is to monitor progress toward established sustainability targets, ensuring accountability and alignment with BRD Group’s broader ESG strategy. To this end, it evaluates key performance indicators (KPIs) and monitors sustainability initiatives, meeting periodically (twice a year or as often as necessary) to review material issues, regulatory developments and strategic objectives. The EC periodically informs the BoD regarding the progress of the Sustainability Strategy implementation, including specific aspects related to material impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs). The responsibilities related to sustainability for the BoD and EC are formalised collectively according to legal provisions (Company’s Law and Civil Code). The General Secretariat, under the CEO’s direct authority, coordinates sustainability efforts, acting as the main liaison with stakeholders on ESG matters. It also plays a central role in coordinating and monitoring progress, establishing sustainability indicators in collaboration with relevant departments and ensuring regular reporting to internal and external stakeholders. The Finance Department, reporting to the Deputy CEO Finance and Treasury, is responsible for the publication of the Annual Report which from financial year ended December 31, 2024 onwards integrates the Sustainability Statement. The Human Resources Department, under the CEO’s direct authority, engages employees in CSR initiatives, manages material risks related to own workforce, as"
"68 GOV 2- 26-a,b,c identified during the DMA (Double Materiality Assessment) and manages relationship with the Trade Union. The Social Environment and Positive Impact Financing Directorate (ESPIF), reporting to the Deputy CEO Non-Retail, assesses environmental and social risks and supports sustainable financing. The Communication Division, under the General Secretariat’s direct authority, manages sponsorships, community support and CSR-related communications. To ensure comprehensive risk oversight, the Compliance Committee, through the ESPIF team, provides quarterly updates to both the BoD and the EC on key environmental and social risk highlights. The Transformation Department, under the CEO’s direct authority, ensures that sustainability-related progress is tracked through established KPI indicators in line with Horizons 2025 and its extension Horizons 2027 strategic plan. Horizons 2027 (extension of Horizons 2025) represents the strategic plan of BRD, focusing on 3 main pillars: Client Centricity (growth built on all business segments, while also fostering synergies), ESG (being a responsible financier and employer) and Efficiency (by being simpler and faster, leveraging also on technology, while optimizing scarce resources and keeping a healthy risk profile). The governance structure also includes internal control mechanisms, ensuring compliance with ESG policies, risk frameworks and ethical business conduct guidelines. The implementation of ESG policies is monitored through BRD Group’s Internal Control Framework, which ensures that sustainability risks and opportunities are effectively managed and reported. The Risk Management Function, reporting to the Deputy CEO Risk, is responsible for overseeing the identification, assessment, monitoring and reporting of the risks that could have a major impact on Bank’s financial standing and/or its reputation (including ESG risks), challenging the proposal made by the first line of defence regarding ESG related normative framework, strategic objectives and sustainability strategy. Each business department integrates sustainability principles into their activities, adapting products and services to align with BRD Group’s CSR policy and sustainability ambitions, with progress tracked through annual indicators. Together, these structures ensure a comprehensive, collaborative approach to sustainability governance and execution, embedding sustainability objectives into BRD Group’s strategy and operations. How BoD and EC Members are Informed About Sustainability Matters The Management Body of BRD (i.e. the BoD and the EC) receive regular updates on material impacts, risks and opportunities, as well as the implementation and outcomes of due diligence processes. These updates are provided by material topic owners and subject matter experts and are reviewed on a case-by-case basis during the EC’s and BoD’s meetings and as part of the DMA process whenever undertaken. The Executive Directors of BRD Sogelease also receive frequent updates on significant ESG-related impacts and risks,. Additionally, BRD Asset Management incorporates sustainability risks into investment decisions alongside financial metrics. The ESG risks of all managed funds are assessed twice per year, with results publicly disclosed in Key Investor Documents. The Management of BRD Asset Management is informed at least twice a year by the Investment Department on ESG risk factors related to the managed funds. These structured reporting mechanisms ensure that the Board and executive leadership have"
"69 GOV 1- 23-a,b access to relevant information to oversee sustainability-related decision-making effectively. The Management Body of BRD Group considers these impacts, risks and opportunities when overseeing the BRD Group’s strategy, major transactions and risk management processes. The BoD plays a critical role in ensuring that sustainability is embedded in strategic decision-making by aligning ESG considerations with business objectives. BRD Group’s sustainability strategy was developed through a combination of top-down strategic guidelines from SG and a bottom-up approach identifying material topics through internal analysis, such as DMA or the Business Environment Scan 2024 (BES). SG’s strategic sustainability framework is structured around four main pillars: a culture of responsibility, environmental transition, positive local impact, and responsible employment. BRD Group integrates these pillars with its internally identified sustainability-linked topics, ensuring that ESG considerations are fully embedded into its Business Strategy, Horizons 2027. As part of this process of integration, the BRD Group assesses the main risks and opportunities, their potential impact on clients and their overall business implications, ensuring a comprehensive integration of ESG factors into the long-term strategy. When overseeing major transactions and risk management, the Executive Committee evaluates how ESG risks and opportunities align with market trends, business objectives, and stakeholder expectations. ESG-related trade-offs, such as the balance between short-term operational costs and long-term sustainability goals, are carefully assessed. The Sustainability Committee - ESG, chaired by the CEO, plays a major role in analyzing material risks and opportunities, including those related to climate change and social impacts. This committee provides strategic guidance on integrating ESG considerations into the BRD Group’s activities and ensures that any associated trade- offs—such as meeting environmental regulations while managing financial sustainability—are transparently addressed. Additionally, BRD Group’s risk management framework incorporates ESG factors, with specialized structures such as the ESPIF Division supporting the identification and mitigation of ESG-related risks in transactions and client engagements. The Board of Directors at BRD Asset Management actively integrates ESG factors into investment oversight. When reviewing or launching new investment products, the Board assesses their alignment with sustainability strategies. Meanwhile, at BRD Sogelease, efforts are underway to develop a customized ESG integration framework tailored to financial leasing activities under the supervision of the Executive Directors. Although the framework is still under development, several ESG risk controls have already been implemented as part of SG’s ESG program. The material impacts, risks, and opportunities identified through the DMA were validated by the Sustainability Committee - ESG and the EC before final approval by the BoD. These identified factors are detailed under the disclosure SBM 3 of the relevant reporting chapter. Skills and Expertise Related to Sustainability To ensure that the Board of Directors (BoD) and Executive Committee (EC) possess the necessary sustainability-related expertise, BRD Group has implemented a structured approach to skills development and continuous learning. The Nomination Committee plays an essential role in this process by identifying, proposing and submitting for approval candidates for management positions, ensuring that selected candidates meet the expectations of capital markets, regulatory bodies such as the National Bank of Romania (NBR), and corporate governance best practices. This includes, among others, expertise in sustainability, business conduct and ESG-related matters. The Nomination"
"70 GOV 1- 5-a,b Committee also conducts an annual assessment of the BoD’s structure, size and performance, making recommendations to enhance sustainability-related competencies where necessary. For members who may not possess direct expertise in sustainability, BRD Group ensures access to a team of trained and certified experts with specialized knowledge acquired through the implementation of sustainability projects. Additionally, members of the management bodies actively participate in annual training programs designed to enhance their understanding of material sustainability topics. In 2024, targeted training sessions were conducted on CSRD and ESRS, ensuring alignment with regulatory requirements and evolving sustainability trends. BRD Group’s Training Plan, developed annually in line with the BRD Group’s strategy and operational priorities, emphasizes upskilling and reskilling to support business needs while ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory certification requirements for key functions. The principles underlying BRD Group’s training and development strategy include alignment with business objectives, open communication, equity and transparency. ESG and sustainability topics have been important topics in the training agenda for 2023 and 2024, with dedicated courses covering areas such as Climate Fresk, Sustainable IT Awareness, CSR Standards, Circular Economy, Environmental Crisis Management, Protecting Biodiversity and Sustainable Finance Regulations. These sessions help equip management with the necessary skills to understand, assess and address sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities relevant to BRD Group’s operations. Beyond formal training, BRD Group leverages internal and external expertise through introductory presentations, workshops and expert-led sessions when major sustainability programs—such as the implementation of CSRD/ESRS requirements—are introduced. These initiatives ensure that the BoD and EC are well-informed about sustainability- related regulatory changes, risks and opportunities, reinforcing their ability to integrate sustainability into strategic decision-making. The departments within BRD Group are gaining knowledge of the sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities related to their specific activities. Training needs are directed also to material topics relevant to BRD Group’s operations. The EC reviews and validates the annual Training Plan, ensuring that it is aligned with the strategic priorities of the BRD Group activities and industry trends. Business Conduct Governance The BoD and EC play a critical role in upholding high standards of business conduct. These bodies operate under clearly defined rules of organization and functioning, promoting high ethical and professional standards and a strong internal control culture. The BoD holds the ultimate responsibility for overseeing BRD Group’s corporate governance framework, ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements, and embedding business conduct principles into the Bank’s strategic direction. The BoD is responsible for establishing and maintaining high standards of corporate ethics, managing conflicts of interest and fostering a transparent business environment. The EC is responsible for implementing the strategic and operational decisions set by the BoD. It ensures that business conduct policies are effectively applied throughout the"
"71 GOV 1- 21-c GOV 3- 29-a-e E1-GOV- 13 organization, embedding ethical principles into daily operations, customer interactions and internal processes. The EC also oversees risk management practices, ensuring alignment with BRD Group’s long-term objectives and regulatory standards. Moreover, the BoD annually assesses the adequacy of the Management Body, and its members based on reports from the Nomination Committee. This ensures that the Management Body is well-suited for the dimension and complexity of the BRD Group's activities. To assist in performing its responsibilities, the BoD has established four committees, including the Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee and the Remuneration Committee. BRD Group prioritizes continuous learning and professional development for its management bodies by providing targeted workshops and training courses on business conduct. Members of the BoD and EC participate in mandatory and voluntary training programs covering critical topics such as anti-corruption, combating inappropriate behavior, the Code of Conduct, international sanctions compliance, competition law, anti- money laundering (AML), countering the financing of terrorism, and information security. Additionally, workshops on organizational culture have been conducted with BoD members and executive directors to define and reinforce corporate values and ethical principles. Tailored coaching programs for top management further enhance their leadership capabilities in fostering a strong ethical culture within BRD Group. For more information related to the BoD and EC members in relation with BRD Group’s sector of activity, products and Romanian market, please refer to Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Sustainability-related Performance Incentive Schemes BRD Group recognizes the importance of aligning remuneration practices with sustainability goals to drive long-term value creation and support the BRD Group’s ESG commitments for the Management Body. The table below included the weight of ESG KPI for EC members: Table 1: ESG KPI for EC members Members Weight of sustainability- related KPI included in management remuneration for 2024 Description of sustainability-related objective Chief Executive Officer 10% SG Group KPIs on ESG: reduction of Oil & Gas exposure Deputy Chief Executive Officer Corporate 5% Green financing volume on Corporate Deputy Chief Executive Officer Retail 5% Green financing on Retail volumes"
"72 GOV 1- 21-b GOV 1- 21-d,e GOV-1 21-a GOV 4 Deputy Chief Executive Officer Financial Markets 5% Green investment product Deputy Chief Executive Officer Finance and Treasury 10% Green financing volumes at bank level, bank's operations CO2 footprint Deputy Chief Executive Officer Projects and Operations 5% Green IT, bank's operations CO2 footprint Deputy Chief Executive Officer Risks 15% ESG strategy, Adapt Risk Policy (incl. ESG by Design) At present, BRD Group’s current remuneration policy for the Management Body does not include structured incentive schemes directly linked to sustainability matters. However, each year, specific objectives are established for the members of these bodies, including those related to sustainable finance. Other Governace-related Information BRD Group ensures employee representation through its adherence to the Collective Labour Agreement and relevant legal requirements, allowing the Representative of the Trade Union to be invited to some BoD meetings to address employees' rights and interests. This inclusion fosters dialogue between the management and the Bank’s workforce, ensuring that employees’ concerns are considered in decision-making. In terms of gender diversity, as of December 31, 2024, the BoD consists of nine members, with five female (56%) and four male (44%), resulting in an average female- to-male ratio of 5:4. Additionally, there are four independent board members, accounting for 44% of the BoD. The EC, however, has a different gender composition, with five19 male members (71.4%) and two female members (28.6%), reflecting an average female to male ratio of 2:5. For information related to the number of executive and non-executive of the BoD members, please refer to Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Statement on Due Diligence Information on the due diligence process for the Sustainability Statement is given in the table below. Table 2: Treatment of Due Diligence in the Sustainability Statement 19 Deputy CEO Projects and Operations under National Bank of Romania approval as at December 31, 2024."
"65 BP 1-5-d BP 2-5- 15 BP 2-5- 17 BP 1-5-c BP-2-9 BP-2-10 BP-2-11 BP-2-16 IRO-2-56 is referred to as „the Group” or „BRD Group”, and its immediate and ultimate controlling party, Société Générale S.A., is referred to as the “SG Group” or “SG”. For the preparation of the Sustainability Statement, BRD Group has not used the option to omit information corresponding to intellectual property, know-how or the results of innovation. Additionally, within this statement mainly mandatory and material disclosures and data points according to ESRS and EFRAG guidance are included. We have also utilized the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards to determine key metrics relevant for specific material IROs presented under the Chapter “Consumers and end-users”. Phase-in option in accordance with ESRS 1 Appending C, has been adopted for specific the following disclosures: ESRS 2 SBM 3, ESRS E1-9. BRD Group’s Value Chain The information included in the Sustainability Statement covers the value chain of BRD Group, including upstream, own operations and downstream, and joint ventures & associates. The DMA has taken into account material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities (IROs) to the extent that BRD Group has ready access to the information. In future we consider expanding this analysis, as the CSRD develops. BRD Group’s value chain consists of the following components: - Upstream & Own Operations, which include the ownership of buildings, IT equipment, direct consumption, supplier relationships, human resources and compliance. - Downstream, which encompasses BRD Group’s core financial services’ clients, including retail, non-retail, leasing and asset management. BRD Group serves a diverse client base, including private individuals, small businesses, SMEs, and large corporations, reflecting the broad impact of its financial activities across the economy. - Joint Ventures & Associates, such as BRD Asigurări de Viață S.A. and CIT ONE S.A, which operate as business partners within BRD Group’s ecosystem. While these entities are not fully consolidated within BRD Group’s operations, they are considered in the value chain analysis, particularly in areas where their activities intersect with BRD Group’s financial services. Additionally, the Sustainability Statement provides detailed information on policies, actions, targets, and metrics that extend across the entire value chain, including BRD Group’s own operations and its relationships with upstream suppliers, downstream clients, and joint ventures & associates. Disclosures in Relation to Specific Circumstances For the preparation of the Sustainability Statement, BRD Group has adopted the same definition for short (1 year), medium (up to 5 year) and long-term (more than 5 years) as indicated by ESRS 1 section 6.4 paragraph 77. When data was not available, averages or proxies were used. Details on the estimates, data sources and any potential measurement uncertainties or assumptions are provided within the relevant Topical Chapters. For more details, please see the information reported below in the section “Disclaimer”. For a list of information incorporated by reference, please refer to the Annex Chapter."
"66 BP-2-12 The List of disclosure requirements and the List of datapoints in cross-cutting and Topical Standards that derive from other EU legislation are reported in the Annex Chapter. In developing its consolidated Sustainability Statement, the Group has not relied upon other European standards nor on data and processes verified by an external assurance provider other than the provider of limited assurance for this report. Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the frameworks, guidelines, policies, effectiveness of the actions, targets and metrics presented in this Sustainability Statement are not validated, audited, certified or assessed by or based on the opinion of an external body other than the assurance provider for this statement. Disclaimer Estimates and uncertainties Information related to sustainability is often subject to uncertainties stemming from the state of scientific and economic knowledge, as well as the quality of both internal and external data, such as those used for for the value chain. Moreover, prospective information, unavailable data, and the quantification of certain sustainability metrics - particularly environment data - rely on estimates and judgements based on BRD Group’s experience and internationally recognized sustainability standards. These estimates depend heavily on the hypotheses and methodological choices made. Use of estimates and associated limitations Sustainability metrics, especially those related to the BRD Group’s value chain like CO2 emissions, are based on estimates, averages, or assumptions, leading to data volatility and quality uncertainties. When direct measurement isn't possible, data from customers or external providers introduce potential inaccuracies. In the absence of specific information, sector and geographical averages are used, which may not accurately reflect the BRD Group’s customer portfolio. Greenhouse gas emissions related to financing activities often require combining multiple data sources. Emission factors, which convert consumption data into greenhouse gas emissions (GHG, in tons of carbon dioxide equivalent - tCO2eq), vary by source and context. CO2 emissions span various categories, each with inherent uncertainties. Additionally, differing methodological practices and changing regulations complicate CO2 emissions estimation across the value chain. Details on data or estimate limitations are provided in the metric descriptions. The BRD Group is committed to improving practices and methodologies as standardized, high- quality data become more available from external partners. Uncertainties inherent in forward-looking information The sustainability statement includes objectives and forward-looking statements reflecting the BRD Group’s ambitions. This information should be used cautiously, as it's based on current beliefs and economic forecasts and is subject to significant uncertainties beyond the BRD Group's control. These statements do not guarantee the realization of all ambitions. The sustainability statement outlines the BRD Group’s trajectory in line with CSRD and ESRS obligations, not a definitive outcome."
"105 8.2. Environmental Information Climate Change This chapter includes details on the identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) related to climate change, as well as the corresponding policies, actions and targets. Furthermore, BRD Group’s overview on the policies, measures and targets is also presented. Strategy E1-1-17 Transition Plan BRD Group acknowledges the importance of having a transition plan to align with climate goals and support the sustainability transition. While BRD Group does not currently have a formal transition plan in place, it is committed to developing and adopting one within its report for 2027. This timeline reflects the complexity and scope of the transition process, ensuring that the plan will be comprehensive, actionable and aligned with both regulatory requirements and the broader strategic objectives of SG. BRD Group is closely aligning its sustainability initiatives with the overarching strategy of SG. SG has established sustainability goals/targets aligned with the goals of the Paris Agreement and BRD Group is working to ensure compliance with SG’s commitments, including the Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) targets and sector-specific decarbonization pathways. Developing a transition plan that is fully integrated into the Group’s sustainability objectives requires time and coordination. Moreover, the evolving regulatory landscape, particularly under CSRD, requires BRD Group to carefully assess its reporting obligations and integrate sustainability considerations across all business areas. The development of a transition plan is being approached with diligence to meet these evolving requirements effectively. BRD Group is not excluded from the Paris Agreement Benchmarks. Although a formal transition plan is not yet available, BRD Group is actively engaged in sustainability initiatives that contribute to the transition process. These include: - Supporting corporate clients in their sustainability transition through financing solutions such as Sustainability-Linked Loans (SLLs) and Project Investment Financing (SPIF), focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. - Expanding green financing for retail clients by offering green loans under EU Invest sustainability support schemes and collaborating with energy efficiency solution providers. - Increasing the share of green financing in BRD Sogelease to support industries such as transport decarbonization and circular economy transitions. - Partnering with institutions such as IFC, EIB (through EIF), and EU funds programs to implement sustainability-linked projects. BRD Group is conducting internal assessments and stakeholder engagements to evaluate the readiness of its portfolios for transition. This includes:"
paragraph 14 x Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) x Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m 3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 x Not material ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i x Not material ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) x Not material ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) x Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24 (b) x Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) x Not material ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) x Not material
"paragraph 14 (f) x 148 ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g) x 148 ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 20 x 152-153 ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21 x 152-153 ESRS S1-1 processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 x Not material ESRS S1-1 workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 x 151 ESRS S1-3 grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) x 155-156 ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work-related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) x x 167-168 ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) x 167-168 ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) x x 168-169 ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) x 168-169 ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) x 169 ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD Guidelines paragraph 104 (a) x x 169 ESRS 2- SBM3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain paragraph 11 (b) x Not material ESRS S2-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 17 x Not material ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 18 x Not material ESRS S2-1Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines paragraph 19 x x Not material ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 19 x Not material"
"65 BP 1-5-d BP 2-5- 15 BP 2-5- 17 BP 1-5-c BP-2-9 BP-2-10 BP-2-11 BP-2-16 IRO-2-56 is referred to as „the Group” or „BRD Group”, and its immediate and ultimate controlling party, Société Générale S.A., is referred to as the “SG Group” or “SG”. For the preparation of the Sustainability Statement, BRD Group has not used the option to omit information corresponding to intellectual property, know-how or the results of innovation. Additionally, within this statement mainly mandatory and material disclosures and data points according to ESRS and EFRAG guidance are included. We have also utilized the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards to determine key metrics relevant for specific material IROs presented under the Chapter “Consumers and end-users”. Phase-in option in accordance with ESRS 1 Appending C, has been adopted for specific the following disclosures: ESRS 2 SBM 3, ESRS E1-9. BRD Group’s Value Chain The information included in the Sustainability Statement covers the value chain of BRD Group, including upstream, own operations and downstream, and joint ventures & associates. The DMA has taken into account material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities (IROs) to the extent that BRD Group has ready access to the information. In future we consider expanding this analysis, as the CSRD develops. BRD Group’s value chain consists of the following components: - Upstream & Own Operations, which include the ownership of buildings, IT equipment, direct consumption, supplier relationships, human resources and compliance. - Downstream, which encompasses BRD Group’s core financial services’ clients, including retail, non-retail, leasing and asset management. BRD Group serves a diverse client base, including private individuals, small businesses, SMEs, and large corporations, reflecting the broad impact of its financial activities across the economy. - Joint Ventures & Associates, such as BRD Asigurări de Viață S.A. and CIT ONE S.A, which operate as business partners within BRD Group’s ecosystem. While these entities are not fully consolidated within BRD Group’s operations, they are considered in the value chain analysis, particularly in areas where their activities intersect with BRD Group’s financial services. Additionally, the Sustainability Statement provides detailed information on policies, actions, targets, and metrics that extend across the entire value chain, including BRD Group’s own operations and its relationships with upstream suppliers, downstream clients, and joint ventures & associates. Disclosures in Relation to Specific Circumstances For the preparation of the Sustainability Statement, BRD Group has adopted the same definition for short (1 year), medium (up to 5 year) and long-term (more than 5 years) as indicated by ESRS 1 section 6.4 paragraph 77. When data was not available, averages or proxies were used. Details on the estimates, data sources and any potential measurement uncertainties or assumptions are provided within the relevant Topical Chapters. For more details, please see the information reported below in the section “Disclaimer”. For a list of information incorporated by reference, please refer to the Annex Chapter."
"123 prioritize financing in sustainable sectors while avoiding environmentally harmful industries. Furthermore, the target contributes to SG’s Climate Policy, supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy by financing green projects and reducing exposure to carbon- intensive sectors. It is also in line with the SG Positive Impact Financing Bond Framework, which promotes investments in projects that generate positive environmental and social impacts, such as renewable energy and social inclusion, while ensuring transparent reporting and accountability. The target is also used to track the effectiveness of the “Business plan for sustainable and positive impact financing” disclosed under “Actions Related to Climate Change Adaptation, Climate Change Mitigation and Energy”. This target addresses all climate change mitigation adaptation and energy material impacts, risks and opportunities, apart from the negative impacts related to carbon emissions and the use of non-renewable energy, addressed by Target 2, described below. The target applies to all BRD activities related to sustainable finance, including corporate lending, retail banking. It covers financing activities across downstream value chains, addressing direct clients and potential clients. The geographical scope includes BRD’s operational regions, primarily Romania, with potential contributions from SG Group initiatives across the broader European market. Upstream value chain does not fall under the scope of this target. The target applies to the period 2023-2027, with regular interim milestones to monitor progress. Annual reviews are conducted to ensure alignment with BRD Group's sustainability goals and regulatory expectations, with interim targets set for each year to ensure a steady trajectory towards the 2027 goal. The target is defined using methodologies aligned with international sustainability frameworks and SG/BRD Group’s sustainability strategies. Significant assumptions include the continued availability, stable economic conditions, and increasing client demand for sustainable financial products. Data sources include internal financial reporting systems, regulatory disclosures, and third-party verification mechanisms to ensure accuracy for certain categories (SLL financing). Key stakeholders, including clients, investors, regulatory bodies, and internal sustainability committees, have been actively involved in defining the target. Stakeholder engagement includes consultations with industry experts, partnerships with environmental organizations, and dialogue with policymakers to ensure the target aligns with market needs and regulatory frameworks. Progress towards the sustainable finance target is monitored and reviewed regularly through internal governance structures, in the quarterly monitoring of business strategy and financial reporting systems. Metrics used to track progress include the total volume of sustainable financing, progress towards the established targets, trends of evolution compared to the target. In addition, on an annual basis, we assess the trend of the sustainable finance market. Performance is assessed through quarterly and annual reviews, ensuring that progress remains in line with initial projections and allowing for corrective actions if necessary. This is a quantitative indicator, and no explicit qualitative data is used to monitor progress. Target 2"
"124 Achieve a 55% reduction in the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline. The target was established in alignment with BRD Group’s strategic vision outlined in the Horizons 2027 strategy, ensuring a cohesive approach to our objectives. It does not however address the policies disclosed in this report. We note that the methodology used to calculate the baseline value for the reduction in the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations was internally developed and refers to categories of emissions associated with Scope 1, 2 and selected categories in scope 3, as described above. The target set by us of reduction with 55% of the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations by 2027 is set in accordance with the above mentioned methodology. Our goal is to achieve this current target by 2027 and set a new GHG reduction target as part of our future Transition Plan. However, the methodology disclosed in section ""Metrics related to climate change"" as well as the actual values for GHG emissions under Scope 1, 2 and selected categories from scope 3 is different from the methodology used to determine the baseline value for carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations. The defined target is to achieve a 55% absolute reduction in the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline of 20,071 tons of CO2 (tCO2). The target is expressed in absolute terms, measured in metric tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e). The target covers BRD Group’s direct operations, including Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions across all office buildings, branches, data centres, and operational facilities within Romania. It does not currently extend to upstream or down-stream value chains but focuses on emissions under the Group’s direct control, ensuring a significant impact within BRD Group’s geographical operations. BRD Group ensures the consistency of its GHG reduction targets with its GHG inventory boundaries by aligning its emissions accounting and reduction initiatives with internationally recognized standards and frameworks, including the GHG Protocol. The defined target of a 55% reduction in the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline, covers the same organizational and operational boundaries used in the annual GHG inventory assessment. The GHG inventory encompasses Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, covering direct emissions from owned or controlled sources (e.g., company vehicles, heating systems) and indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heat, and cooling. Additionally, relevant Scope 3 emissions, namely employee commuting and business travel, are monitored to assess their impact and identify potential reduction opportunities. This approach ensures that BRD Group’s emissions reduction initiatives cover and address all significant sources of operational carbon emissions. BRD Group's integrated environmental management system enables accurate data collection, validation, and reporting across all relevant operational sites. Yearly external audits and reviews are conducted to validate the consistency between the defined GHG targets and the inventory boundaries, ensuring that any adjustments or operational changes (such as new office locations, fleet modifications, or energy procurement strategies) are reflected in both the target and the inventory."
"125 BRD Group has established 2019 as the base year for its GHG emissions reduction target, with a baseline value of 20,071 tCO2 from its own operations. This baseline was determined through a comprehensive assessment of emissions data collected across all operational sites, covering both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, and selected Scope 3 categories. The 2019 baseline serves as a reference point for measuring progress and tracking the effectiveness of BRD's emissions reduction initiatives. BRD Group has selected 2019 as the baseline year for its GHG emissions reduction target due to its operational stability and typical consumption levels. While 2020 was a potential candidate for the baseline, it was excluded due to the significant disruption caused by the COVID- 19 pan-demic, which led to abnormal consumption patterns and a reduction in overall operational activity. This drastic reduction in emissions and energy use in 2020 could have negatively influenced the data, making it an unreliable reference for normal operations. To ensure that the baseline is representative of typical activity levels, 2019 was chosen as it reflects a year of normal operational performance without the external disruptions that occurred in 2020. This baseline value was reviewed to ensure that it reflects BRD Group's operational emissions prior to any significant external factors or anomalies. An intensity value GHG reduction target is not yet established. The target period spans from 2019 to 2027. In 2024 it was achieved a reduction of 45% compared to the 2019 baseline. Further reviews and adjustments are planned annually to ensure the Group remains on track to achieve its final 2027 goal. No specific milestones or interim targets were established. The target was defined using methodologies aligned with international best practices, namely the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Data sources include internal energy consumption reports, contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy and regulatory environmental disclosures. In developing the target EU Green Deal, Paris Agreement, and Romania’s national climate goals were considered. Assumptions include a stable regulatory environment, continued adoption of energy-efficient technologies, and employee engagement in sustainability initiatives. Stakeholders, namely internal specialized teams and operational managers were actively involved in the target-setting process. Employee engagement initiatives, such as awareness campaigns and training sessions, also played a crucial role in shaping the target, ensuring alignment with both business operations and employee expectations. Performance is monitored through the integrated environmental management system, with annual reviews conducted to track emissions, assess trends, and identify areas for further improvement. Key metrics include total CO2 emissions, energy efficiency indicators, and cost savings from energy reduction initiatives. Progress remains on track, with ongoing measures such as remote work policies, energy-efficient infrastructure upgrades, and fleet greening programs supporting continued reductions. Decarbonization levers related to target 2 BRD Group has identified several key decarbonisation levers, described under E1-3 which will contribute to the achievement of its GHG emissions reduction targets for own operations. These levers include: - Energy Efficiency Improvements: The Group is implementing measures to reduce energy consumption across its operations, including the optimization of energy use in office spaces and reducing the energy intensity of production processes. This lever"
"126 will primarily contribute to the reduction of Scope 2 emissions (indirect emissions from purchased energy). - Fuel Switching: BRD will transition to low-carbon or renew-able fuels in its operations, particularly for any remaining fossil fuel use. The move to electric vehicles (EVs) and the greening of the car fleet by adopting Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) and Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEVs) will lower emissions in Scope 1 (direct emissions from owned or controlled sources) by replacing traditional gasoline or diesel vehicles. - Renewable Energy Adoption: One of the key actions will be to increase the use of renewable energy sources, such as solar or green electricity, in its operations, thereby reducing Scope 2 emissions. This includes potential on-site renewable energy generation and the purchase of renewable energy. - Operational Optimization: BRD is enhancing operational efficiencies through technology upgrades, such as automation systems, which improve energy management and reduce overall emissions. For GHG emissions Scope 1, the greening of the car fleet (with BEVs/PHEVs) and a reduction in fossil fuel usage across BRD Group’s operations are expected to be the primary decarbonisation measures. Also, switching from fossil fuels to low-carbon or renewable fuels and enhancing energy efficiency in BRD’s building operations will also help reduce direct emissions. Transitioning to renewable energy (solar, wind, and green energy) for BRD’s office buildings and operational facilities will reduce Scope 2 emissions. Additionally, energy-efficient equipment and technologies implemented across operations will reduce energy demand, further de-creasing Scope 2 emissions. Use of new technology in achieving target 2 To achieve the GHG emission reduction targets, BRD Group is investing in new technologies that will accelerate decarbonisation, particularly for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Some examples include: - Electric Vehicle (EV) Infrastructure: By adopting BEVs and PHEVs for the company’s car fleet, BRD Group will reduce its Scope 1 emissions. In addition, the Group is investing in charging infrastructure to support these vehicles. - Energy-efficient Technologies: BRD will continue to implement advanced energy- efficient technologies in buildings, such as smart building management systems that optimize energy consumption in real-time. - Data Analytics for Energy Optimization: The use of data analytics tools and IT devices will enhance operational efficiencies and energy management, improving energy use efficiency and reducing carbon intensity. Targets alignment with Paris Agreement objectives BRD Group has established two key targets to address its environmental impact: (1) achieving EUR 2.4 billion in sustainable finance production by 2027, and (2) achieving a 55% reduction in the carbon footprint of its own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline. However, it is important to note that these targets are not science-based and have not been explicitly aligned with limiting global warming to 1.5°C. The methodology used to determine these targets is primarily based on internal assessments, industry benchmarks and alignment with SG Group ambitions, rather than a sectoral decarbonization pathway. BRD Group’s carbon reduction target for operational emissions is derived from an analysis of its historical emissions, operational energy efficiency initiatives, and anticipated improvements in energy procurement and building infrastructure. The sustainable finance target is based on the SG Group’s strategic"
"21 ➢ Mr. Jean-Pierre Georges Vigroux and Mrs. Liliana Ionescu - Feleaga attended to all the Audit Committee's meetings (10 meetings); ➢ Mrs. Delphine Garcin Meunier attended to 4 out of the 7 meetings organized after the entry into force of her mandate. After each meeting, minutes were drafted, specifying the aspects that required improvements, as well as recommendations for their application. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee consisted of 3 non-executive directors, of which 2 are independent directors. As at December 31, 2024, the members were: Liliana Ionescu – Feleaga (Independent Chairman), Mr. Jean- Pierre Georges Vigroux (Independent member) and Mrs. Delphine Garcin Meunier (Member)7. The year 2024 brought the following changes to the composition of the Remuneration Committee: ✓ Mrs. Delphine Garcin Meunier nomination as a member of this committee entered into force starting to June 6,2024. The Remuneration Committee meets annually, or whenever necessary. In 2024, 9 meetings of the Remuneration Committee took place. The attendance was as follows: ➢ Mr. Jean-Pierre Georges Vigroux and Mrs. Liliana Ionescu - Feleaga attended to all the Audit Committee's meetings (9 meetings); Mrs. Delphine Garcin Meunier attended to all 6 meetings organized after the entry into force of her mandate.In order to perform the attributions entrusted, the Remuneration Committee analyses the Bank's remuneration policy which it submits to the Board of Directors for approval; it submits proposals regarding the individual remuneration of non-executive directors and the additional individual compensation of the directors entrusted with specific functions within the Board as well as the individual remuneration of the officers; it supervises directly the remuneration of the coordinators of the risks’ management and compliance functions; and it supervises the application of the principles of the staff remuneration policy and informs the Board of Directors in this respect. The Remuneration Committee responsibilities are presented in the Bank's Corporate Governance Code available to the interested parties on institutional site in section: https://www.brd.ro/en/about- brd/shareholders-and-investors/corporate-governance. RISKS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Committee consisted of 3 non-executive directors. As at December 31, 2024, the members were: Mr. Benoît Jean Marie Ottenwaelter (Chairman), Mr. Bogdan-Alexandru Drăgoi (Independent Member) and Mr. Jacques Paul Michel Mary Vedrenne (Member)8. The Risks’ Management Committee meets on a quarterly basis or whenever necessary. In 2024, 4 meetings of the Risks’ Management Committee took place. The attendance was as follows: ➢ Mr. Benoît Jean Marie Ottenwaelter and Mr. Bogdan-Alexandru Drăgoi attended to all the Risks’ Management Committee's meetings (4 meetings); 7 Starting June 6, 2024. 8 Mrs. Aurore Brigitte Micheline Gaspar was member of this committee until July 1st, 2024 and Mr. Jacques Paul Michel Mary Vedrenne has became member starting to December 6,2024."
Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Sustainability-related Performance Incentive Schemes BRD Group recognizes the importance of aligning remuneration practices with sustainability goals to drive long-term value creation and support the BRD Group’s ESG commitments for the Management Body. The table below included the weight of ESG KPI for EC members: Table 1: ESG KPI for EC members Members Weight of sustainability- related KPI included in management remuneration for 2024 Description of sustainability-related objective Chief Executive Officer 10% SG Group KPIs on ESG: reduction of Oil & Gas exposure Deputy Chief Executive Officer Corporate 5% Green financing volume on Corporate Deputy Chief Executive Officer Retail 5% Green financing on Retail volumes
"Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Statement on Due Diligence Information on the due diligence process for the Sustainability Statement is given in the table below. Table 2: Treatment of Due Diligence in the Sustainability Statement 19 Deputy CEO Projects and Operations under National Bank of Romania approval as at December 31, 2024."
"67 BRD Group Governance Practices GOV 1- 22- a,d Sustainability Governance At BRD Group level, the Board of Directors (BoD) holds ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Group’s Sustainability Strategy, ensuring the effective management of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs). This includes defining long-term objectives and targets that align with the BRD Group’s commitments to stakeholders, regulatory compliance and broader ESG priorities. The BoD ensures that sustainability considerations are integrated into the BRD Group’s strategic direction, reinforcing alignment with regulatory frameworks, stakeholder expectations and the overarching sustainability commitments of Société Générale Group (SG). Through its governance role, the BoD drives responsible decision-making, monitors progress on sustainability initiatives and ensures that BRD Group remains resilient in addressing ESG challenges and opportunities. The Executive Committee (EC) is responsible for implementing the Sustainability Strategy across all relevant business lines and functions, ensuring that the defined targets are translated into actionable plans across business units. To support these efforts, the Sustainability Committee - ESG, established in 2021 and chaired by the CEO of the Bank, functions as a permanent decisional body focused on strategic CSR and ESG analysis. The members of this committee consist of permanent members, CEO together with the rest of the EC, General Secretary, ESPIF Director, Acquisitions (ACH) Director, Executive Director Financial Risk Poling, and guests from other departments (i.e. compliance, legal, logistics, human resources, business lines). This committee’s mission is to establish the actions required to implement sustainability, climate, and environmental strategies and policies in line with Bank’s objectives, The Committee’s meetings in 2024 addressed CSRD obligations, including Sustainability Strategy. A key responsibility of the committee is to monitor progress toward established sustainability targets, ensuring accountability and alignment with BRD Group’s broader ESG strategy. To this end, it evaluates key performance indicators (KPIs) and monitors sustainability initiatives, meeting periodically (twice a year or as often as necessary) to review material issues, regulatory developments and strategic objectives. The EC periodically informs the BoD regarding the progress of the Sustainability Strategy implementation, including specific aspects related to material impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs). The responsibilities related to sustainability for the BoD and EC are formalised collectively according to legal provisions (Company’s Law and Civil Code). The General Secretariat, under the CEO’s direct authority, coordinates sustainability efforts, acting as the main liaison with stakeholders on ESG matters. It also plays a central role in coordinating and monitoring progress, establishing sustainability indicators in collaboration with relevant departments and ensuring regular reporting to internal and external stakeholders. The Finance Department, reporting to the Deputy CEO Finance and Treasury, is responsible for the publication of the Annual Report which from financial year ended December 31, 2024 onwards integrates the Sustainability Statement. The Human Resources Department, under the CEO’s direct authority, engages employees in CSR initiatives, manages material risks related to own workforce, as"
"68 GOV 2- 26-a,b,c identified during the DMA (Double Materiality Assessment) and manages relationship with the Trade Union. The Social Environment and Positive Impact Financing Directorate (ESPIF), reporting to the Deputy CEO Non-Retail, assesses environmental and social risks and supports sustainable financing. The Communication Division, under the General Secretariat’s direct authority, manages sponsorships, community support and CSR-related communications. To ensure comprehensive risk oversight, the Compliance Committee, through the ESPIF team, provides quarterly updates to both the BoD and the EC on key environmental and social risk highlights. The Transformation Department, under the CEO’s direct authority, ensures that sustainability-related progress is tracked through established KPI indicators in line with Horizons 2025 and its extension Horizons 2027 strategic plan. Horizons 2027 (extension of Horizons 2025) represents the strategic plan of BRD, focusing on 3 main pillars: Client Centricity (growth built on all business segments, while also fostering synergies), ESG (being a responsible financier and employer) and Efficiency (by being simpler and faster, leveraging also on technology, while optimizing scarce resources and keeping a healthy risk profile). The governance structure also includes internal control mechanisms, ensuring compliance with ESG policies, risk frameworks and ethical business conduct guidelines. The implementation of ESG policies is monitored through BRD Group’s Internal Control Framework, which ensures that sustainability risks and opportunities are effectively managed and reported. The Risk Management Function, reporting to the Deputy CEO Risk, is responsible for overseeing the identification, assessment, monitoring and reporting of the risks that could have a major impact on Bank’s financial standing and/or its reputation (including ESG risks), challenging the proposal made by the first line of defence regarding ESG related normative framework, strategic objectives and sustainability strategy. Each business department integrates sustainability principles into their activities, adapting products and services to align with BRD Group’s CSR policy and sustainability ambitions, with progress tracked through annual indicators. Together, these structures ensure a comprehensive, collaborative approach to sustainability governance and execution, embedding sustainability objectives into BRD Group’s strategy and operations. How BoD and EC Members are Informed About Sustainability Matters The Management Body of BRD (i.e. the BoD and the EC) receive regular updates on material impacts, risks and opportunities, as well as the implementation and outcomes of due diligence processes. These updates are provided by material topic owners and subject matter experts and are reviewed on a case-by-case basis during the EC’s and BoD’s meetings and as part of the DMA process whenever undertaken. The Executive Directors of BRD Sogelease also receive frequent updates on significant ESG-related impacts and risks,. Additionally, BRD Asset Management incorporates sustainability risks into investment decisions alongside financial metrics. The ESG risks of all managed funds are assessed twice per year, with results publicly disclosed in Key Investor Documents. The Management of BRD Asset Management is informed at least twice a year by the Investment Department on ESG risk factors related to the managed funds. These structured reporting mechanisms ensure that the Board and executive leadership have"
"69 GOV 1- 23-a,b access to relevant information to oversee sustainability-related decision-making effectively. The Management Body of BRD Group considers these impacts, risks and opportunities when overseeing the BRD Group’s strategy, major transactions and risk management processes. The BoD plays a critical role in ensuring that sustainability is embedded in strategic decision-making by aligning ESG considerations with business objectives. BRD Group’s sustainability strategy was developed through a combination of top-down strategic guidelines from SG and a bottom-up approach identifying material topics through internal analysis, such as DMA or the Business Environment Scan 2024 (BES). SG’s strategic sustainability framework is structured around four main pillars: a culture of responsibility, environmental transition, positive local impact, and responsible employment. BRD Group integrates these pillars with its internally identified sustainability-linked topics, ensuring that ESG considerations are fully embedded into its Business Strategy, Horizons 2027. As part of this process of integration, the BRD Group assesses the main risks and opportunities, their potential impact on clients and their overall business implications, ensuring a comprehensive integration of ESG factors into the long-term strategy. When overseeing major transactions and risk management, the Executive Committee evaluates how ESG risks and opportunities align with market trends, business objectives, and stakeholder expectations. ESG-related trade-offs, such as the balance between short-term operational costs and long-term sustainability goals, are carefully assessed. The Sustainability Committee - ESG, chaired by the CEO, plays a major role in analyzing material risks and opportunities, including those related to climate change and social impacts. This committee provides strategic guidance on integrating ESG considerations into the BRD Group’s activities and ensures that any associated trade- offs—such as meeting environmental regulations while managing financial sustainability—are transparently addressed. Additionally, BRD Group’s risk management framework incorporates ESG factors, with specialized structures such as the ESPIF Division supporting the identification and mitigation of ESG-related risks in transactions and client engagements. The Board of Directors at BRD Asset Management actively integrates ESG factors into investment oversight. When reviewing or launching new investment products, the Board assesses their alignment with sustainability strategies. Meanwhile, at BRD Sogelease, efforts are underway to develop a customized ESG integration framework tailored to financial leasing activities under the supervision of the Executive Directors. Although the framework is still under development, several ESG risk controls have already been implemented as part of SG’s ESG program. The material impacts, risks, and opportunities identified through the DMA were validated by the Sustainability Committee - ESG and the EC before final approval by the BoD. These identified factors are detailed under the disclosure SBM 3 of the relevant reporting chapter. Skills and Expertise Related to Sustainability To ensure that the Board of Directors (BoD) and Executive Committee (EC) possess the necessary sustainability-related expertise, BRD Group has implemented a structured approach to skills development and continuous learning. The Nomination Committee plays an essential role in this process by identifying, proposing and submitting for approval candidates for management positions, ensuring that selected candidates meet the expectations of capital markets, regulatory bodies such as the National Bank of Romania (NBR), and corporate governance best practices. This includes, among others, expertise in sustainability, business conduct and ESG-related matters. The Nomination"
"70 GOV 1- 5-a,b Committee also conducts an annual assessment of the BoD’s structure, size and performance, making recommendations to enhance sustainability-related competencies where necessary. For members who may not possess direct expertise in sustainability, BRD Group ensures access to a team of trained and certified experts with specialized knowledge acquired through the implementation of sustainability projects. Additionally, members of the management bodies actively participate in annual training programs designed to enhance their understanding of material sustainability topics. In 2024, targeted training sessions were conducted on CSRD and ESRS, ensuring alignment with regulatory requirements and evolving sustainability trends. BRD Group’s Training Plan, developed annually in line with the BRD Group’s strategy and operational priorities, emphasizes upskilling and reskilling to support business needs while ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory certification requirements for key functions. The principles underlying BRD Group’s training and development strategy include alignment with business objectives, open communication, equity and transparency. ESG and sustainability topics have been important topics in the training agenda for 2023 and 2024, with dedicated courses covering areas such as Climate Fresk, Sustainable IT Awareness, CSR Standards, Circular Economy, Environmental Crisis Management, Protecting Biodiversity and Sustainable Finance Regulations. These sessions help equip management with the necessary skills to understand, assess and address sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities relevant to BRD Group’s operations. Beyond formal training, BRD Group leverages internal and external expertise through introductory presentations, workshops and expert-led sessions when major sustainability programs—such as the implementation of CSRD/ESRS requirements—are introduced. These initiatives ensure that the BoD and EC are well-informed about sustainability- related regulatory changes, risks and opportunities, reinforcing their ability to integrate sustainability into strategic decision-making. The departments within BRD Group are gaining knowledge of the sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities related to their specific activities. Training needs are directed also to material topics relevant to BRD Group’s operations. The EC reviews and validates the annual Training Plan, ensuring that it is aligned with the strategic priorities of the BRD Group activities and industry trends. Business Conduct Governance The BoD and EC play a critical role in upholding high standards of business conduct. These bodies operate under clearly defined rules of organization and functioning, promoting high ethical and professional standards and a strong internal control culture. The BoD holds the ultimate responsibility for overseeing BRD Group’s corporate governance framework, ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements, and embedding business conduct principles into the Bank’s strategic direction. The BoD is responsible for establishing and maintaining high standards of corporate ethics, managing conflicts of interest and fostering a transparent business environment. The EC is responsible for implementing the strategic and operational decisions set by the BoD. It ensures that business conduct policies are effectively applied throughout the"
"71 GOV 1- 21-c GOV 3- 29-a-e E1-GOV- 13 organization, embedding ethical principles into daily operations, customer interactions and internal processes. The EC also oversees risk management practices, ensuring alignment with BRD Group’s long-term objectives and regulatory standards. Moreover, the BoD annually assesses the adequacy of the Management Body, and its members based on reports from the Nomination Committee. This ensures that the Management Body is well-suited for the dimension and complexity of the BRD Group's activities. To assist in performing its responsibilities, the BoD has established four committees, including the Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee and the Remuneration Committee. BRD Group prioritizes continuous learning and professional development for its management bodies by providing targeted workshops and training courses on business conduct. Members of the BoD and EC participate in mandatory and voluntary training programs covering critical topics such as anti-corruption, combating inappropriate behavior, the Code of Conduct, international sanctions compliance, competition law, anti- money laundering (AML), countering the financing of terrorism, and information security. Additionally, workshops on organizational culture have been conducted with BoD members and executive directors to define and reinforce corporate values and ethical principles. Tailored coaching programs for top management further enhance their leadership capabilities in fostering a strong ethical culture within BRD Group. For more information related to the BoD and EC members in relation with BRD Group’s sector of activity, products and Romanian market, please refer to Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Sustainability-related Performance Incentive Schemes BRD Group recognizes the importance of aligning remuneration practices with sustainability goals to drive long-term value creation and support the BRD Group’s ESG commitments for the Management Body. The table below included the weight of ESG KPI for EC members: Table 1: ESG KPI for EC members Members Weight of sustainability- related KPI included in management remuneration for 2024 Description of sustainability-related objective Chief Executive Officer 10% SG Group KPIs on ESG: reduction of Oil & Gas exposure Deputy Chief Executive Officer Corporate 5% Green financing volume on Corporate Deputy Chief Executive Officer Retail 5% Green financing on Retail volumes"
"72 GOV 1- 21-b GOV 1- 21-d,e GOV-1 21-a GOV 4 Deputy Chief Executive Officer Financial Markets 5% Green investment product Deputy Chief Executive Officer Finance and Treasury 10% Green financing volumes at bank level, bank's operations CO2 footprint Deputy Chief Executive Officer Projects and Operations 5% Green IT, bank's operations CO2 footprint Deputy Chief Executive Officer Risks 15% ESG strategy, Adapt Risk Policy (incl. ESG by Design) At present, BRD Group’s current remuneration policy for the Management Body does not include structured incentive schemes directly linked to sustainability matters. However, each year, specific objectives are established for the members of these bodies, including those related to sustainable finance. Other Governace-related Information BRD Group ensures employee representation through its adherence to the Collective Labour Agreement and relevant legal requirements, allowing the Representative of the Trade Union to be invited to some BoD meetings to address employees' rights and interests. This inclusion fosters dialogue between the management and the Bank’s workforce, ensuring that employees’ concerns are considered in decision-making. In terms of gender diversity, as of December 31, 2024, the BoD consists of nine members, with five female (56%) and four male (44%), resulting in an average female- to-male ratio of 5:4. Additionally, there are four independent board members, accounting for 44% of the BoD. The EC, however, has a different gender composition, with five19 male members (71.4%) and two female members (28.6%), reflecting an average female to male ratio of 2:5. For information related to the number of executive and non-executive of the BoD members, please refer to Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Statement on Due Diligence Information on the due diligence process for the Sustainability Statement is given in the table below. Table 2: Treatment of Due Diligence in the Sustainability Statement 19 Deputy CEO Projects and Operations under National Bank of Romania approval as at December 31, 2024."
"paragraph 21 (d) x x 72 ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) x 72 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 x 72-73 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i x x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv x Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 x 105 ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) x x 105 ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 x x x 123-126 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 x Not material material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions S4-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 190"
"paragraph 21 x 152-153 ESRS S1-1 processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 x Not material ESRS S1-1 workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 x 151 ESRS S1-3 grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) x 155-156 ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work-related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) x x 167-168 ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) x 167-168 ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) x x 168-169 ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) x 168-169 ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) x 169 ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD Guidelines paragraph 104 (a) x x 169 ESRS 2- SBM3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain paragraph 11 (b) x Not material ESRS S2-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 17 x Not material ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 18 x Not material ESRS S2-1Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines paragraph 19 x x Not material ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 19 x Not material"
Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Sustainability-related Performance Incentive Schemes BRD Group recognizes the importance of aligning remuneration practices with sustainability goals to drive long-term value creation and support the BRD Group’s ESG commitments for the Management Body. The table below included the weight of ESG KPI for EC members: Table 1: ESG KPI for EC members Members Weight of sustainability- related KPI included in management remuneration for 2024 Description of sustainability-related objective Chief Executive Officer 10% SG Group KPIs on ESG: reduction of Oil & Gas exposure Deputy Chief Executive Officer Corporate 5% Green financing volume on Corporate Deputy Chief Executive Officer Retail 5% Green financing on Retail volumes
"Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Statement on Due Diligence Information on the due diligence process for the Sustainability Statement is given in the table below. Table 2: Treatment of Due Diligence in the Sustainability Statement 19 Deputy CEO Projects and Operations under National Bank of Romania approval as at December 31, 2024."
"68 GOV 2- 26-a,b,c identified during the DMA (Double Materiality Assessment) and manages relationship with the Trade Union. The Social Environment and Positive Impact Financing Directorate (ESPIF), reporting to the Deputy CEO Non-Retail, assesses environmental and social risks and supports sustainable financing. The Communication Division, under the General Secretariat’s direct authority, manages sponsorships, community support and CSR-related communications. To ensure comprehensive risk oversight, the Compliance Committee, through the ESPIF team, provides quarterly updates to both the BoD and the EC on key environmental and social risk highlights. The Transformation Department, under the CEO’s direct authority, ensures that sustainability-related progress is tracked through established KPI indicators in line with Horizons 2025 and its extension Horizons 2027 strategic plan. Horizons 2027 (extension of Horizons 2025) represents the strategic plan of BRD, focusing on 3 main pillars: Client Centricity (growth built on all business segments, while also fostering synergies), ESG (being a responsible financier and employer) and Efficiency (by being simpler and faster, leveraging also on technology, while optimizing scarce resources and keeping a healthy risk profile). The governance structure also includes internal control mechanisms, ensuring compliance with ESG policies, risk frameworks and ethical business conduct guidelines. The implementation of ESG policies is monitored through BRD Group’s Internal Control Framework, which ensures that sustainability risks and opportunities are effectively managed and reported. The Risk Management Function, reporting to the Deputy CEO Risk, is responsible for overseeing the identification, assessment, monitoring and reporting of the risks that could have a major impact on Bank’s financial standing and/or its reputation (including ESG risks), challenging the proposal made by the first line of defence regarding ESG related normative framework, strategic objectives and sustainability strategy. Each business department integrates sustainability principles into their activities, adapting products and services to align with BRD Group’s CSR policy and sustainability ambitions, with progress tracked through annual indicators. Together, these structures ensure a comprehensive, collaborative approach to sustainability governance and execution, embedding sustainability objectives into BRD Group’s strategy and operations. How BoD and EC Members are Informed About Sustainability Matters The Management Body of BRD (i.e. the BoD and the EC) receive regular updates on material impacts, risks and opportunities, as well as the implementation and outcomes of due diligence processes. These updates are provided by material topic owners and subject matter experts and are reviewed on a case-by-case basis during the EC’s and BoD’s meetings and as part of the DMA process whenever undertaken. The Executive Directors of BRD Sogelease also receive frequent updates on significant ESG-related impacts and risks,. Additionally, BRD Asset Management incorporates sustainability risks into investment decisions alongside financial metrics. The ESG risks of all managed funds are assessed twice per year, with results publicly disclosed in Key Investor Documents. The Management of BRD Asset Management is informed at least twice a year by the Investment Department on ESG risk factors related to the managed funds. These structured reporting mechanisms ensure that the Board and executive leadership have"
"69 GOV 1- 23-a,b access to relevant information to oversee sustainability-related decision-making effectively. The Management Body of BRD Group considers these impacts, risks and opportunities when overseeing the BRD Group’s strategy, major transactions and risk management processes. The BoD plays a critical role in ensuring that sustainability is embedded in strategic decision-making by aligning ESG considerations with business objectives. BRD Group’s sustainability strategy was developed through a combination of top-down strategic guidelines from SG and a bottom-up approach identifying material topics through internal analysis, such as DMA or the Business Environment Scan 2024 (BES). SG’s strategic sustainability framework is structured around four main pillars: a culture of responsibility, environmental transition, positive local impact, and responsible employment. BRD Group integrates these pillars with its internally identified sustainability-linked topics, ensuring that ESG considerations are fully embedded into its Business Strategy, Horizons 2027. As part of this process of integration, the BRD Group assesses the main risks and opportunities, their potential impact on clients and their overall business implications, ensuring a comprehensive integration of ESG factors into the long-term strategy. When overseeing major transactions and risk management, the Executive Committee evaluates how ESG risks and opportunities align with market trends, business objectives, and stakeholder expectations. ESG-related trade-offs, such as the balance between short-term operational costs and long-term sustainability goals, are carefully assessed. The Sustainability Committee - ESG, chaired by the CEO, plays a major role in analyzing material risks and opportunities, including those related to climate change and social impacts. This committee provides strategic guidance on integrating ESG considerations into the BRD Group’s activities and ensures that any associated trade- offs—such as meeting environmental regulations while managing financial sustainability—are transparently addressed. Additionally, BRD Group’s risk management framework incorporates ESG factors, with specialized structures such as the ESPIF Division supporting the identification and mitigation of ESG-related risks in transactions and client engagements. The Board of Directors at BRD Asset Management actively integrates ESG factors into investment oversight. When reviewing or launching new investment products, the Board assesses their alignment with sustainability strategies. Meanwhile, at BRD Sogelease, efforts are underway to develop a customized ESG integration framework tailored to financial leasing activities under the supervision of the Executive Directors. Although the framework is still under development, several ESG risk controls have already been implemented as part of SG’s ESG program. The material impacts, risks, and opportunities identified through the DMA were validated by the Sustainability Committee - ESG and the EC before final approval by the BoD. These identified factors are detailed under the disclosure SBM 3 of the relevant reporting chapter. Skills and Expertise Related to Sustainability To ensure that the Board of Directors (BoD) and Executive Committee (EC) possess the necessary sustainability-related expertise, BRD Group has implemented a structured approach to skills development and continuous learning. The Nomination Committee plays an essential role in this process by identifying, proposing and submitting for approval candidates for management positions, ensuring that selected candidates meet the expectations of capital markets, regulatory bodies such as the National Bank of Romania (NBR), and corporate governance best practices. This includes, among others, expertise in sustainability, business conduct and ESG-related matters. The Nomination"
"71 GOV 1- 21-c GOV 3- 29-a-e E1-GOV- 13 organization, embedding ethical principles into daily operations, customer interactions and internal processes. The EC also oversees risk management practices, ensuring alignment with BRD Group’s long-term objectives and regulatory standards. Moreover, the BoD annually assesses the adequacy of the Management Body, and its members based on reports from the Nomination Committee. This ensures that the Management Body is well-suited for the dimension and complexity of the BRD Group's activities. To assist in performing its responsibilities, the BoD has established four committees, including the Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee and the Remuneration Committee. BRD Group prioritizes continuous learning and professional development for its management bodies by providing targeted workshops and training courses on business conduct. Members of the BoD and EC participate in mandatory and voluntary training programs covering critical topics such as anti-corruption, combating inappropriate behavior, the Code of Conduct, international sanctions compliance, competition law, anti- money laundering (AML), countering the financing of terrorism, and information security. Additionally, workshops on organizational culture have been conducted with BoD members and executive directors to define and reinforce corporate values and ethical principles. Tailored coaching programs for top management further enhance their leadership capabilities in fostering a strong ethical culture within BRD Group. For more information related to the BoD and EC members in relation with BRD Group’s sector of activity, products and Romanian market, please refer to Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Sustainability-related Performance Incentive Schemes BRD Group recognizes the importance of aligning remuneration practices with sustainability goals to drive long-term value creation and support the BRD Group’s ESG commitments for the Management Body. The table below included the weight of ESG KPI for EC members: Table 1: ESG KPI for EC members Members Weight of sustainability- related KPI included in management remuneration for 2024 Description of sustainability-related objective Chief Executive Officer 10% SG Group KPIs on ESG: reduction of Oil & Gas exposure Deputy Chief Executive Officer Corporate 5% Green financing volume on Corporate Deputy Chief Executive Officer Retail 5% Green financing on Retail volumes"
"72 GOV 1- 21-b GOV 1- 21-d,e GOV-1 21-a GOV 4 Deputy Chief Executive Officer Financial Markets 5% Green investment product Deputy Chief Executive Officer Finance and Treasury 10% Green financing volumes at bank level, bank's operations CO2 footprint Deputy Chief Executive Officer Projects and Operations 5% Green IT, bank's operations CO2 footprint Deputy Chief Executive Officer Risks 15% ESG strategy, Adapt Risk Policy (incl. ESG by Design) At present, BRD Group’s current remuneration policy for the Management Body does not include structured incentive schemes directly linked to sustainability matters. However, each year, specific objectives are established for the members of these bodies, including those related to sustainable finance. Other Governace-related Information BRD Group ensures employee representation through its adherence to the Collective Labour Agreement and relevant legal requirements, allowing the Representative of the Trade Union to be invited to some BoD meetings to address employees' rights and interests. This inclusion fosters dialogue between the management and the Bank’s workforce, ensuring that employees’ concerns are considered in decision-making. In terms of gender diversity, as of December 31, 2024, the BoD consists of nine members, with five female (56%) and four male (44%), resulting in an average female- to-male ratio of 5:4. Additionally, there are four independent board members, accounting for 44% of the BoD. The EC, however, has a different gender composition, with five19 male members (71.4%) and two female members (28.6%), reflecting an average female to male ratio of 2:5. For information related to the number of executive and non-executive of the BoD members, please refer to Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Statement on Due Diligence Information on the due diligence process for the Sustainability Statement is given in the table below. Table 2: Treatment of Due Diligence in the Sustainability Statement 19 Deputy CEO Projects and Operations under National Bank of Romania approval as at December 31, 2024."
"73 GOV 5 CORE ELEMENTS OF DUE DILIGENCE Section in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model ESRS 2 – GOV-2, pg. 68-69 ESRS 2- GOV -3, pg. 71-72 ESRS 2 – SBM-3, pg. 94-103, 145-149, 170-171 Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence ESRS 2- GOV-2, pg. 68-69 ESRS 2- SBM-2, pg. 80-85 ESRS 2- IRO-1, pg. 85-90 ESRS 2 MDR-P, pg. 107-111,149-151, 171-179, 193-196 S1-2, pg. 154-155 S4-3, pg. 178-179 Identifying and assessing adverse impacts ESRS 2 – IRO-1, pg. 85-90 ESRS 2 – SBM-3, pg. pg. 94-103, 145- 149, 170-171 Taking actions to address those adverse impacts ESRS 2 MDR-A, pg. 111-122, 156-162, 179-189, 199 Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating ESRS 2 MDR-T, pg. 122-126, 162-163, 190, 199 Risk Management and Internal Controls over Sustainability Reporting Currently, BRD Group does not have a fully formalized risk management and internal control system dedicated exclusively to the sustainability reporting process. However, sustainability reporting is conducted within the broader corporate governance framework, with responsibilities distributed across relevant departments, while the ultimate responsible for the integration of the Sustainability Statement within the BoD Annual Report lies with Finance. The reporting process relies on existing internal controls (Chapter 7 Internal Control Framework of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024), such as data verification by responsible units, alignment with regulatory requirements and high-level oversight by management. While there is no dedicated sustainability reporting control framework yet, efforts are made to ensure compliance with applicable standards through collaboration between operational teams and departments responsible for the preparation of the sustainability reporting. Risk Assessment Approach BRD Group does not currently employ a formalized risk assessment methodology for sustainability reporting. However, potential risks related to data accuracy, completeness, and consistency have been identified and managed during the reporting process. The prioritization of these risks is based on factors such as regulatory compliance requirements, stakeholder expectations, and internal strategic priorities. Key risk areas considered include data reliability from different business units, potential misalignment with reporting standards and evolving regulatory demands. BRD Group is planning to enhance the risk assessment process by developing a more structured approach to sustainability reporting risk identification and management. The following key risks related to the sustainability reporting process have been identified:"
"74 ▪ Data accuracy and reliability: Risk of inconsistencies in sustainability data due to reliance on manual data collection and limited automation. Mitigation: Internal validation processes conducted by the responsible reporting teams, cross- departmental reviews. ▪ Regulatory compliance risk: Potential gaps in meeting new or evolving sustainability disclosure requirements. Mitigation: Continuous monitoring of regulatory changes and consultation with subject matter experts, including external consultants. ▪ Internal capacity and expertise: Specialized knowledge on sustainability reporting frameworks still under development, which may impact reporting quality. Mitigation: Ongoing capacity-building efforts, including internal training and collaboration with external consultants. ▪ Timeliness of reporting: Challenges in consolidating data from multiple sources within required timelines. Mitigation: Improving internal coordination, and project management, with clearer and larger intermediate milestones. Integration of Risk Findings BRD Group integrates findings related to sustainability reporting risks through its existing governance processes. Insights gained from previous voluntary reporting cycles are used to improve data collection methods and coordination between departments. Cross-functional collaboration – particularly between Finance, Risk Management Structures and the General Secretariat – ensures that identified reporting challenges are addressed through ad-hoc process adjustments. Future efforts aim to formalize the integration process by implementing dedicated sustainability reporting policies and procedures. Oversight and Reporting Mechanisms Sustainability reporting progress and key challenges are communicated through general reporting mechanisms, such as periodic updates to the EC and Sustainability Committee - ESG. ESG and reporting-related findings are also discussed in relevant working groups when necessary (i.e. ESG by Design Program, ESG working group). Plans are in place to enhance periodic reporting through the establishment of formalized reporting mechanisms to management bodies to ensure improved oversight and decision-making. BRD Group Business Model and Sustainability Strategy SBM-1- 40-a Business Model BRD Group is active in Romania in the banking, leasing and asset management sector. BRD operates as a universal bank providing a comprehensive range of financial products and services to individuals, corporate clients, and public institutions. Its business model integrates traditional banking services with sustainable finance initiatives, aiming to create long-term value for customers, investors and stakeholders. BRD Group's offering extends beyond core banking services, encompassing specialized financial entities such as BRD Asset Management and BRD Sogelease, which contribute to a diversified product offering tailored to different market needs."
"72 GOV 1- 21-b GOV 1- 21-d,e GOV-1 21-a GOV 4 Deputy Chief Executive Officer Financial Markets 5% Green investment product Deputy Chief Executive Officer Finance and Treasury 10% Green financing volumes at bank level, bank's operations CO2 footprint Deputy Chief Executive Officer Projects and Operations 5% Green IT, bank's operations CO2 footprint Deputy Chief Executive Officer Risks 15% ESG strategy, Adapt Risk Policy (incl. ESG by Design) At present, BRD Group’s current remuneration policy for the Management Body does not include structured incentive schemes directly linked to sustainability matters. However, each year, specific objectives are established for the members of these bodies, including those related to sustainable finance. Other Governace-related Information BRD Group ensures employee representation through its adherence to the Collective Labour Agreement and relevant legal requirements, allowing the Representative of the Trade Union to be invited to some BoD meetings to address employees' rights and interests. This inclusion fosters dialogue between the management and the Bank’s workforce, ensuring that employees’ concerns are considered in decision-making. In terms of gender diversity, as of December 31, 2024, the BoD consists of nine members, with five female (56%) and four male (44%), resulting in an average female- to-male ratio of 5:4. Additionally, there are four independent board members, accounting for 44% of the BoD. The EC, however, has a different gender composition, with five19 male members (71.4%) and two female members (28.6%), reflecting an average female to male ratio of 2:5. For information related to the number of executive and non-executive of the BoD members, please refer to Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. Statement on Due Diligence Information on the due diligence process for the Sustainability Statement is given in the table below. Table 2: Treatment of Due Diligence in the Sustainability Statement 19 Deputy CEO Projects and Operations under National Bank of Romania approval as at December 31, 2024."
"73 GOV 5 CORE ELEMENTS OF DUE DILIGENCE Section in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model ESRS 2 – GOV-2, pg. 68-69 ESRS 2- GOV -3, pg. 71-72 ESRS 2 – SBM-3, pg. 94-103, 145-149, 170-171 Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence ESRS 2- GOV-2, pg. 68-69 ESRS 2- SBM-2, pg. 80-85 ESRS 2- IRO-1, pg. 85-90 ESRS 2 MDR-P, pg. 107-111,149-151, 171-179, 193-196 S1-2, pg. 154-155 S4-3, pg. 178-179 Identifying and assessing adverse impacts ESRS 2 – IRO-1, pg. 85-90 ESRS 2 – SBM-3, pg. pg. 94-103, 145- 149, 170-171 Taking actions to address those adverse impacts ESRS 2 MDR-A, pg. 111-122, 156-162, 179-189, 199 Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating ESRS 2 MDR-T, pg. 122-126, 162-163, 190, 199 Risk Management and Internal Controls over Sustainability Reporting Currently, BRD Group does not have a fully formalized risk management and internal control system dedicated exclusively to the sustainability reporting process. However, sustainability reporting is conducted within the broader corporate governance framework, with responsibilities distributed across relevant departments, while the ultimate responsible for the integration of the Sustainability Statement within the BoD Annual Report lies with Finance. The reporting process relies on existing internal controls (Chapter 7 Internal Control Framework of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024), such as data verification by responsible units, alignment with regulatory requirements and high-level oversight by management. While there is no dedicated sustainability reporting control framework yet, efforts are made to ensure compliance with applicable standards through collaboration between operational teams and departments responsible for the preparation of the sustainability reporting. Risk Assessment Approach BRD Group does not currently employ a formalized risk assessment methodology for sustainability reporting. However, potential risks related to data accuracy, completeness, and consistency have been identified and managed during the reporting process. The prioritization of these risks is based on factors such as regulatory compliance requirements, stakeholder expectations, and internal strategic priorities. Key risk areas considered include data reliability from different business units, potential misalignment with reporting standards and evolving regulatory demands. BRD Group is planning to enhance the risk assessment process by developing a more structured approach to sustainability reporting risk identification and management. The following key risks related to the sustainability reporting process have been identified:"
"paragraph 30 x 72-73 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i x x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv x Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 x 105 ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) x x 105 ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 x x x 123-126 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 x Not material material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions S4-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 190"
"73 GOV 5 CORE ELEMENTS OF DUE DILIGENCE Section in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model ESRS 2 – GOV-2, pg. 68-69 ESRS 2- GOV -3, pg. 71-72 ESRS 2 – SBM-3, pg. 94-103, 145-149, 170-171 Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence ESRS 2- GOV-2, pg. 68-69 ESRS 2- SBM-2, pg. 80-85 ESRS 2- IRO-1, pg. 85-90 ESRS 2 MDR-P, pg. 107-111,149-151, 171-179, 193-196 S1-2, pg. 154-155 S4-3, pg. 178-179 Identifying and assessing adverse impacts ESRS 2 – IRO-1, pg. 85-90 ESRS 2 – SBM-3, pg. pg. 94-103, 145- 149, 170-171 Taking actions to address those adverse impacts ESRS 2 MDR-A, pg. 111-122, 156-162, 179-189, 199 Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating ESRS 2 MDR-T, pg. 122-126, 162-163, 190, 199 Risk Management and Internal Controls over Sustainability Reporting Currently, BRD Group does not have a fully formalized risk management and internal control system dedicated exclusively to the sustainability reporting process. However, sustainability reporting is conducted within the broader corporate governance framework, with responsibilities distributed across relevant departments, while the ultimate responsible for the integration of the Sustainability Statement within the BoD Annual Report lies with Finance. The reporting process relies on existing internal controls (Chapter 7 Internal Control Framework of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024), such as data verification by responsible units, alignment with regulatory requirements and high-level oversight by management. While there is no dedicated sustainability reporting control framework yet, efforts are made to ensure compliance with applicable standards through collaboration between operational teams and departments responsible for the preparation of the sustainability reporting. Risk Assessment Approach BRD Group does not currently employ a formalized risk assessment methodology for sustainability reporting. However, potential risks related to data accuracy, completeness, and consistency have been identified and managed during the reporting process. The prioritization of these risks is based on factors such as regulatory compliance requirements, stakeholder expectations, and internal strategic priorities. Key risk areas considered include data reliability from different business units, potential misalignment with reporting standards and evolving regulatory demands. BRD Group is planning to enhance the risk assessment process by developing a more structured approach to sustainability reporting risk identification and management. The following key risks related to the sustainability reporting process have been identified:"
"74 ▪ Data accuracy and reliability: Risk of inconsistencies in sustainability data due to reliance on manual data collection and limited automation. Mitigation: Internal validation processes conducted by the responsible reporting teams, cross- departmental reviews. ▪ Regulatory compliance risk: Potential gaps in meeting new or evolving sustainability disclosure requirements. Mitigation: Continuous monitoring of regulatory changes and consultation with subject matter experts, including external consultants. ▪ Internal capacity and expertise: Specialized knowledge on sustainability reporting frameworks still under development, which may impact reporting quality. Mitigation: Ongoing capacity-building efforts, including internal training and collaboration with external consultants. ▪ Timeliness of reporting: Challenges in consolidating data from multiple sources within required timelines. Mitigation: Improving internal coordination, and project management, with clearer and larger intermediate milestones. Integration of Risk Findings BRD Group integrates findings related to sustainability reporting risks through its existing governance processes. Insights gained from previous voluntary reporting cycles are used to improve data collection methods and coordination between departments. Cross-functional collaboration – particularly between Finance, Risk Management Structures and the General Secretariat – ensures that identified reporting challenges are addressed through ad-hoc process adjustments. Future efforts aim to formalize the integration process by implementing dedicated sustainability reporting policies and procedures. Oversight and Reporting Mechanisms Sustainability reporting progress and key challenges are communicated through general reporting mechanisms, such as periodic updates to the EC and Sustainability Committee - ESG. ESG and reporting-related findings are also discussed in relevant working groups when necessary (i.e. ESG by Design Program, ESG working group). Plans are in place to enhance periodic reporting through the establishment of formalized reporting mechanisms to management bodies to ensure improved oversight and decision-making. BRD Group Business Model and Sustainability Strategy SBM-1- 40-a Business Model BRD Group is active in Romania in the banking, leasing and asset management sector. BRD operates as a universal bank providing a comprehensive range of financial products and services to individuals, corporate clients, and public institutions. Its business model integrates traditional banking services with sustainable finance initiatives, aiming to create long-term value for customers, investors and stakeholders. BRD Group's offering extends beyond core banking services, encompassing specialized financial entities such as BRD Asset Management and BRD Sogelease, which contribute to a diversified product offering tailored to different market needs."
"85 In the investment domain, BRD Asset Management develops financial products with sustainability-linked features, offering structured placements for individual investors and an increased number of ESG-focused investment funds. These initiatives provide clients with responsible investment opportunities that align with their values and sustainability goals. Additionally, BRD Sogelease focuses on promoting green financing in specific industries, supporting the decarbonization of transport and facilitating the transition to a circular economy through tailored financing solutions. BRD Group actively supports economic and social transformation by offering financing solutions to municipalities for infrastructure development on both large and small scales. BRD Group also assists SMEs in their sustainability transition through awareness-raising initiatives such as the SME District and SME Summit, providing educational resources and financing options tailored to their needs. Gender and social finance are also covered, with BRD Group actively promoting female entrepreneurship through the IFC partnership, which aims to support local businesses with dedicated funding of 78 MEUR until 2027. To enhance sustainable mobility, BRD Group focuses its automotive sector strategy on financing companies that develop and produce parts for electric and hybrid vehicles, alongside standard green fleet financing products in partnership with IFC. BRD Sogelease continues to expand its offerings by financing zero-emission cars and commercial vehicles, encouraging clients to adopt cleaner transportation options. BRD Group is committed to financial inclusion and education, developing customized financial products for specific client segments such as students and pensioners, and enhancing accessibility through e-accessibility solutions for disabled customers. Ensuring the physical and digital security of clients remains a top priority, with continuous investment in cybersecurity technologies and robust data protection measures. Furthermore, BRD Group strengthens its social impact by supporting national projects in education, culture, and environmental protection. Initiatives such as the Climate Change Summit, Fundatia 9 programs (Scena 9, Scoala 9, Rezidenta 9), and the Mindcraft Youth program demonstrate the Bank’s commitment to raising awareness and fostering long- term positive change. Double Materiality Assessment Process IRO 1-53 a Methodology BRD Group has established a structured double materiality assessment process to identify and evaluate sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) from both financial and impact perspectives. This process is aligned with the requirements of the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS 1), ensuring a thorough consideration of how sustainability matters influence the Group’s financial performance, as well as the Group’s broader impact on the environment and society. The assessment"
"86 IRO 1-53 d IRO 1-53 g IRO 1-53 b was conducted with a holistic approach, considering BRD Group's IFRS consolidation perimeter and its upstream and downstream value chain. The Double Materiality Assessment (DMA) was carried out in three main phases: Understanding the Context This initial phase aimed to develop a deep understanding of BRD Group’s business environment and identify potentially relevant sustainability matters. The insights gained during this phase facilitated the identification of relevant IROs by considering the Group’s operations and its broader value chain. Identifying and Assessing Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities In this phase, the Group identified and assessed IROs across a predefined list of sustainability matters, as outlined in ESRS 1 AR 16. The IROs were determined based on data collected in the first phase and assessed through two dimensions: impact materiality and financial materiality. Impacts were evaluated based on their significance to the environment and society, while risks and opportunities were analysed for their financial implications. This process led to the development of a preliminary list of material IROs, which was further refined through discussions with internal experts to ensure accuracy and relevance. Validating the Results The final phase involved an internal validation of the DMA findings with the Sustainability Committee - ESG. This step ensured the robustness and credibility of the assessment, incorporating feedback from key internal stakeholders to finalize the material IROs for reporting and strategic planning purposes. Ultimately, the results of the DMA were validated by the EC and approved by the BoD. The DMA was performed under the coordination of the Finance Department in collaboration with the General Secretariat, and with the support of an external consultant. For the assessment, internal experts from different departments were involved. The results were acknowledged by the Sustainability Committee - ESG, validated by the EC and approved by BoD. The monitoring and control over the DMA process was ensured by the responsible departments in charge of this process. Various data sources were used throughout the analysis. External sources included the UNEP-FI Impact Radar database for identifying impacts, SASB standards (SASB Consumer Finance, SASB Commercial Banks), as well as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards when identifying risks and opportunities. Internal sources of information used included the BES performed in 2024 and stakeholder consultation performed for the previous sustainability reporting cycle. Identification of Potential and Actual Impacts on People and the Environment To identify potential and actual impacts on people and the environment, BRD Group conducted an analysis of the context in which it operates. This process involved a review of various internal documents (i.e., business strategy, portfolio composition, product offering, ESG rating, etc.) to gather relevant information on the BRD Group’s primary business lines – retail and non-retail – across entities from BRD Group. For each"
"87 business line, specific aspects related to key products and services were examined, considering their volume and relative contribution within the respective business segments. Emphasis was placed on the banking activities, given their substantial share in the overall BRD Group operations, accounting for nearly 94% of the BRD Group’s total activities. To ensure a detailed assessment, multiple internal sources were analysed to gain insights into the fundamental elements of BRD Group’s own operations. Additionally, feedback from key stakeholders (see ESRS 2-SBM-2.45a)—gathered through various communication channels (i.e. employee satisfaction survey, customer satisfaction survey, whistleblowing channels, complaints channels available for employees and customers, previous stakeholder engagement, etc.) available at BRD Group level—was carefully analysed to capture external perspectives and expectations related to BRD Group’s sustainability impacts. To complete the analysis, information related to business relationships along the value chain were also included in the analysis. The assessment also incorporated an evaluation of business relationships along the value chain, with a focus on BRD’s participations in other companies where operational control is not exercised. Based on the information collected during the analysis, the potentially relevant impacts were identified along BRD Group’s value chain: upstream, own operations and downstream. To identify the potentially relevant impacts related to Upstream and Own Operations value chain, BRD Group conducted an analysis of key operation aspects, including the ownership of buildings, IT equipment, car fleet, and direct resource consumption. These elements were carefully evaluated to determine their environmental and social implications within the BRD Group’s direct operations. Additionally, was analysed information related to supplier relationships to identify potentially relevant impacts arising from how BRD Group manages the relationship with its suppliers. For upstream and own operations impacts, BRD Group used the GRI Standards as a reference, leveraging their comprehensive approach to environmental and social impact assessment. Regarding downstream impacts associated with the BRD Group’s portfolio, a detailed examination of BRD Group’s exposures to various economic sectors was undertaken. In this context, the non-retail banking portfolio was analysed to identify significant sectoral exposures that could be linked to material sustainability impacts. For the retail banking activities, the assessment considered key products and services to evaluate their potential social and environmental effects. Similarly, based on internal evaluations, BRD Group identified the primary sectors financed (i.e. agriculture, transport of goods, construction, etc.) including through its leasing and asset management activities to ensure a clear understanding of downstream sustainability impacts. For joint ventures and associates, the potentially relevant impacts were identified primarily based on the nature of their business models and operations. Given the complexity of the impact identification process, BRD Group adopted the UNEP Impact Radar methodology as a reference for identifying impacts mainly related to downstream activities and joint ventures and associates. This methodology was selected for its interoperability with the ESRS framework, ensuring alignment with reporting requirements and best practices. Assessment and Prioritization of Potential and Actual Impacts on People and the Environment"
"88 The identified potentially relevant impacts were systematically categorized according to the ESRS framework, aligning them with the corresponding topics, sub-topics, and sub- sub-topics as outlined in ESRS 1 AR16. This structured approach facilitated the identification of a comprehensive list of relevant ESRS topics at various levels, ensuring consistency with regulatory requirements. Furthermore, the impacts associated with the identified relevant topics, sub-topics and sub-sub-topics were thoroughly assessed following the guidelines provided by ESRS 1, enabling a detailed evaluation of their significance and potential implications. The relevant impacts were assessed along the entire value chain and across the relevant time-horizon (short-term, medium-term and long-term). For this assessment, the same definitions for the time-horizons indicated within ESRS 1 were adopted. Positive and negative impacts were assessed separately in relation to the specific segments of the value chain to which they pertain. To ensure a thorough and standardized evaluation, the assessment process incorporated the key variables outlined in ESRS 1: - scale, which measures the gravity or benefit of the impact on people and the environment; - scope, which evaluates how widespread the impact is; - the irremediable character of the impact, assessing the extent to which negative effects can be mitigated or reversed; and - likelihood, which considers the probability of potential impacts occurring. For the assessment of positive actual impacts, the scale and scope were considered, whereas for potential positive impacts, the analysis also incorporated the likelihood factor. Similarly, the evaluation of actual negative impacts was based on the scale, scope, and the irremediable character of the impact, while the assessment of potential negative impacts included all four variables -scale, scope, irremediable character and likelihood. In cases related to human rights, severity was prioritized over likelihood. In this case, only variables related to severity were assessed. Each variable was assessed on a scale of six points (0-5). To assign the score, a specific methodology was developed to ensure consistency during the assessment. The assessment was conducted by the BRD Group team in charge for this activity with the support of an external consultant. In the assessment were involved also internal experts that have specific knowledge on the different topics and the related impacts. In this sense, dedicated meetings were organized with the internal experts to evaluate the relevant impacts. To identify material impacts, a threshold was established: an impact was considered material if it received a final score of at least 2.5. For further details on the identified material impacts, please refer to the disclosure ESRS 2-SBM-3. Monitoring of Potential and Actual Impacts on People and the Environment The material impacts identified were internally validated by the Sustainability Committee - ESG and Executive Committee and then approved by the Board of Directors. To ensure continuous oversight and support data-driven decision-making, BRD Group will systematically track and evaluate its material sustainability-related impacts over time, aiming to mitigate negative effects and enhance positive contributions. The monitoring will primarily include periodic reviews to adapt to evolving stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements; stakeholder engagement mechanisms to gather ongoing feedback on sustainability impacts and assess the effectiveness of mitigation measures; regular internal audits and ESG performance evaluations to ensure compliance with sustainability policies and identify areas for continuous improvement."
"89 IRO 1-53 c For this exercise, specific consultations with affected stakeholders were not conducted. Instead, the analysis relied on previous stakeholder consultations carried out by BRD Group, as well as feedback gathered through various communication channels available at BRD Group level (refer to disclosures under SBM2). Identification of Risks and Opportunities The process for identifying risks and opportunities closely mirrored the approach used to gain insights into BRD Group’s business context (see information reported under ESRS 2-IRO-1.53b). The collected data was integrated with insights from BRD Group's 2024 BES, as well as relevant information from other international sustainability reporting standards (SASB and GRI Standards). The BES was conducted at the BRD Group level, encompassing BRD, BRD Sogelease, and BRD Asset Management. This analysis provided valuable insights into climate and environmental risks and opportunities. For risks related to social and governance topics, BRD Group referred to the information outlined in the SASB Standards for the financial sector and GRI Standards. Given that ESG risks are analysed at an aggregated level within BRD Group's general risk management framework, the information provided by the internal risk management process lacked the necessary granularity for this analysis. The identification of the risks and opportunities took in consideration, where applicable, the connection with identified impacts. No dependencies were identified during the analysis, having in view the main activities of BRD Group. Assessment and Prioritization of Risks and Opportunities The identified risks and opportunities were systematically categorized according to the ESRS framework, aligning them with the corresponding topics, sub-topics and sub-sub- topics as outlined in ESRS 1 AR16. The risks and opportunities were assessed following the guidelines provided by ESRS 1, enabling an evaluation of their financial impact on the BRD Group performance. The risks and opportunities were assessed separately and across the relevant time-horizon (short-term, medium-term and long-term). For this assessment, were adopted the same definitions for the time-horizons indicated within ESRS 1. The assessment process incorporated the key variables outlined in ESRS 1: likelihood of occurrence and the potential magnitude of the financial effects. Likelihood of occurrence was assessed on a scale from 0-5 in line with the impact materiality assessment. The magnitude of the financial effects was assessed on a scale of four points (0-3). To assign the score, a specific guidance was developed to ensure consistency during the assessment. The assessment was conducted by the BRD Group team in charge for this activity with the support of an external consultant. In the assessment were involved also internal experts that have specific knowledge on the different topics and the related risks and opportunities. To identify material risks and opportunities, a threshold was established: a risk or opportunity was considered material if it received a final score of at least 1.5 on a scale of maximum 3 points. For further details on the identified material risk and opportunities, please refer to the disclosure ESRS 2-SBM-3. Monitoring of Risks and Opportunities"
"90 IRO 1-53 e E1-IRO 1-20 a The material risks and opportunities identified were internally validated by the Sustainability Committee - ESG and Executive Committee and then approved by the Board of Directors. To ensure continuous oversight and support data-driven decision- making, BRD Group will systematically track and evaluate its material sustainability- related risks and opportunities over time, aiming to mitigate negative effects and enhance positive contributions. The monitoring will primarily include periodic reviews to adapt to evolving stakeholder expectations, regulatory requirements and market dynamics; stakeholder engagement mechanisms to assess the effectiveness of risk mitigation measures and capitalize on emerging opportunities; integration with the BES; regular internal audits and ESG performance evaluations to ensure compliance with sustainability policies and identify areas for continuous improvement. Integration in the Risk Management Process At BRD Group, the processes for identifying, assessing and managing sustainability- related impacts, risks and opportunities are integrated into the overall risk management and strategic management processes. These processes are primarily driven by the double materiality assessment and BES, which enable BRD to evaluate both financial and non-financial aspects of sustainability risks and opportunities across its value chain. The Risk Management Function is responsible for overseeing these processes independently from operational and support structures, ensuring objective evaluation and alignment with the Bank's strategic goals. The Deputy CEO in charge of Risk (Chief Risk Officer) leads the centralized risk management function and reports findings, conclusions and recommendations to the Management Body and relevant committees, ensuring that sustainability-related risks and opportunities are considered into decision-making. Sustainability risks, such as climate change adaptation and mitigation, regulatory compliance and financial impacts of environmental policies, are assessed within BRD Group’s overall risk framework, allowing BRD Group to anticipate potential disruptions, financial strain and reputational impacts while aligning with regulatory requirements such as CSRD and the EU Taxonomy. The integration process is further reinforced by a Level 2 control structure, which ensures the efficiency of the internal control system by assessing the adequacy of Level 1 control measures. This structure plays an important role in evaluating whether sustainability risks and opportunities are effectively monitored and addressed within BRD Group’s activities and operations. It ensures that the first line of defense has adequately identified operational risks and anomalies, implemented corrective actions and adapted processes to address emerging sustainability challenges and market demands. On the opportunity side, BRD Group incorporates sustainability-driven growth prospects into its broader management processes. Identified opportunities—such as financing renewable energy projects, supporting the transition of high-carbon sectors and expanding ESG-focused financial products—are assessed for their strategic and financial viability. These opportunities are actively integrated into BRD Group’s business planning, investment strategies and client offerings. Process to Identify Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities related to Environmental Matters"
"91 E1-IRO 1-20 b E1-IRO 1-21 c Climate Change The identification of climate-related impacts was conducted in alignment with the double materiality process outlined in ESRS 2-IRO-1.53. This analysis encompassed the entire value chain of BRD Group, including upstream and downstream activities. Impacts related to Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions were deemed material across upstream, own operations and downstream value chains due to their contribution to global GHG emissions and the resultant negative effects on climate change. For upstream and own operations, the assessment focused on the primary direct and indirect activities contributing to GHG emissions. Detailed information on these emission sources can be found in the disclosure E1-6. The analysis also considered the climate-related impacts associated with BRD Group's portfolio, evaluating sectoral exposures and their potential contributions to climate change. Given the unavailability of specific data on financed emissions at the time of the assessment, the analysis relied on the types of economic activities financed by BRD Group to gauge their potential climate impact. In addition to identifying negative impacts, the analysis highlighted BRD Group's positive climate contributions. These include financing renewable energy projects, promoting the adoption of clean energy technologies and supporting the transition to green technologies through tailored financial products. For further details on the identified material impacts, please refer to the disclosure ESRS 2-SBM-3.48. The results of the analysis are expected to improve in future reporting cycles, as data related to financed emissions will become available and allow for more accurate assessments based on concrete data. The identification of climate-related physical risks was conducted through the BES at BRD Group level. This process encompassed an analysis of climate-related hazards over the short, medium and long-term, evaluating their potential impact on BRD Group’s operations, as well as its upstream and downstream value chain. The short, medium, and long-term horizons were defined in alignment with BRD Group’s strategic planning cycles, capital allocation plans and the expected lifetime of its assets, ensuring a forward- looking approach to risk assessment. Key hazards identified include droughts, floods and increased temperatures, with particular focus on regions in Romania already experiencing these impacts, such as the eastern and south-eastern regions. These hazards were assessed for their potential to disrupt operations in sectors such as Agriculture, Energy, Real Estate and Automotive. High-emission climate scenarios were not used as part of this analysis. However, the BES provided sufficient insights into potential risks by leveraging sectoral and regional climate data as well as internal expert reviews. The analysis revealed that BRD Group’s portfolio is moderately exposed to physical risks, particularly through its mortgage portfolio and agricultural lending. For the mortgage portfolio, physical risks such as floods and landslides were identified. In agriculture, drought and extreme weather conditions pose risks to loan performance and land productivity. To mitigate these risks, BRD Group has excluded financing for lands located in flood-prone areas and plans to develop drought mapping to further refine its exposure assessment. The sensitivity of these sectors to physical risks underscores the need for"
"92 E2-IRO 1-11 resilient infrastructure investments and financing for climate-adaptive practices, such as irrigation systems or drought-resistant crops. BRD Group identified key transition risks and opportunities through the BES, focusing on sectors such as Energy, Construction, Automotive, Real Estate and Agriculture. The assessment considered climate-related transition events over the short, medium and long-term, evaluating their potential impact on BRD Group’s activities. The climate- related transition events were also analysed considering their potential duration and magnitude. Transition risks include new policy and regulatory constraints (e.g., ""Fit for 55"" regulations, Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030) and technological advancements requiring companies to decarbonize operations. While a 1.5°C scenario was not explicitly used in the analysis, the identified risks are consistent with this target, as they account for changes in demand for high-emission goods, increased production costs, and the potential for stranded assets in sectors like fossil fuels and heavy industry. The analysis highlighted opportunities such as financing renewable energy projects, green technologies and sustainable building materials to support clients’ decarbonization efforts. Transition risks were found to have significant implications for BRD Group’s Corporate and Retail portfolios. In the Corporate segment, policy-driven changes are expected to affect sectors like Construction and Energy, while technological advances create both risks and opportunities for clients adapting to lower-emission production methods. BRD Group supports these transitions by financing ESG/ green loans and sustainability-linked loans. For Retail clients, regulatory requirements such as Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) for real estate create risks for the mortgage portfolio but also offer opportunities through green mortgage products like “Habitat Verde”. Across the value chain, transition risks may lead to increased CAPEX/OPEX requirements, which could negatively impact clients’ credit profiles. BRD Group mitigates these risks by focusing on clients with sustainable business models and leveraging green financing products to encourage decarbonization. As BRD Group has not realized a transition plan in line with Paris Agreement’s objectives, the analysis related to identification of activities that are incompatible with or need significant efforts to be compatible with a transition to a climate-neutral economy was not performed yet. These aspects will be carefully analyzed during the realization of the transition plan. Pollution Pollution was identified as a sub-topic primarily relevant to the downstream value chain, given that the most significant impacts, risks and opportunities are associated with BRD Group’s financed portfolio. In contrast, BRD Group’s own operations and upstream value chain, which are primarily connected to its role as a financial services provider and credit institution, were assessed to have minimal or no significant contribution to pollution of air, water and soil. During the assessment, positive impacts to which BRD Group may contribute by supporting projects aimed at reducing air and water pollution were identified. Additionally, negative impacts related to the financing of activities and projects that contribute to pollution of air, pollution of water, pollution of soil and pollution of living organisms and"
"93 E3-IRO 1-8 E4-IRO 1-17 E5-IRO 1-11 food resources were identified. The analysis took in consideration pollution-related risks impacting clients’ financial health and credit risk. Opportunities were identified in relation to the financing of technologies and projects that positively contribute to the reduction of pollution. Following the assessment, none of the impacts, risks and opportunities resulted material. The result was also influenced by the limited information available at the time the analysis was performed. Water Water was identified as a sub-topic primarily relevant to the downstream value chain, given that the most significant impacts, risks and opportunities are associated with BRD Group’s financed portfolio. Only water consumption was considered relevant for BRD Group’s own operations and upstream value chain. During the analysis, were identified mainly negative impacts related to the financing of water intensive companies, especially in the manufacturing sector, and to the financing of other sectors that can have negative effects on the quality of water through their water discharged. Key risks identified included increased operational costs due to water scarcity, regulatory pressures on water withdrawal and environmental risks such as leaks and spills affecting water quality. Additionally, were identified opportunities related to blue financing both at the level of the public and private sector. Following the assessment, none of the impacts, risks and opportunities resulted material. Biodiversity Biodiversity has been identified as a relevant sub-topic within BRD Group's downstream value chain, primarily due to significant impacts, risks, and opportunities associated with its financed portfolio. BRD Group's direct operations are not located near biodiversity- sensitive areas. The assessment identified potential negative impacts in sectors such as real estate, agriculture, infrastructure, energy, and transportation. Through the use of the DMA and BES analyses, BRD Group evaluated risks related to habitat degradation, land- use changes, and ecosystem fragmentation, using sector-specific assessments and location-based criteria. Nature-related transition risks could increase operational or production costs as businesses strive to balance efficiency with environmental sustainability. Sectors like agriculture, real estate, and power generation may face fluctuations in water availability and quality. Additionally, environmental factors could affect clients' loans repayment behaviors. For instance, health impacts from pollution or water contamination could affect individuals' ability to work, while broader macroeconomic consequences, such as regional instability from environmental degradation, could raise living costs. However, the likelihood of these events occurring in Romania is considered low and not materially significant. Potential dependencies on biodiversity were also examined, particularly in agriculture, where soil health and ecosystem services are crucial for financial sustainability. The analysis primarily focused on the effects of financed sectors on biodiversity. The assessment concluded that none of the identified impacts, risks, or opportunities were material, partly due to limited data available at the time. This topic will be reassessed in the next reporting cycle as more information becomes available. Resource Use and Circular Economy"
"94 G1-IRO 1-6 The identification of impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular economy followed the process outlined above (refer to ESRS 2-IRO-1.53a). Resource inflows and waste were considered relevant both for upstream and own operations, while resource outflows were considered relevant only for downstream value chain. At upstream and own operations level, were mainly identified impacts related to the consumption of paper and other resources that contribute to the production of waste. Considering the type of BRD Group activities, the identified relevant impacts were considered not material. At portfolio level, were identified mainly impacts connected to specific sectors that use significant amounts of resources generating waste. Also, were identified some positive impacts related to the capacity of BRD Group to finance circular economy initiatives. The analysis took in consideration also risks related to the financing of sectors of activities that can encounter growing financial expenditure related to the proper management of waste. Following the assessment, none of the impacts, risks and opportunities resulted material. Business Conduct The identification of impacts, risks and opportunities in relation to business conduct was conducted in alignment with the double materiality process previously described. For the scope of the analysis, were considered the main activities performed by BRD Group. The impacts, risks and opportunities in relation to business conduct were analysed mainly for the activities related to upstream and own operations. For further details on the identified material impacts, risks and opportunities please refer to the disclosure ESRS 2-SBM- 3.48. The double materiality assessment will be re-evaluated in a regular annual process. including the due diligence process and engagement with stakeholders. Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities SBM-3 48 a, h The following information gives an overview of BRD Group’s material impacts, risks and opportunities that resulted from the DMA (see IRO-1), and how they interact with the strategy and business model. In Table 3 below, all material IROs are listed, based on the sustainability matter they relate to, the type of IRO, the position in the value chain and the relevant time horizon. Table 4 – Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Sustainability Matter Topics→sub- topic→sub- sub-topic Type of IRO IRO Description Value chain Time horizon E1-Climate change adaptation Climate change→ climate change adaptation Risk BRD faces a multifaceted array of risks across various sectors due to climate change and the transition to a more sustainable economy. Rapid or misaligned implementation of ESG products could lead to strategic missteps if not matched with market demand. Similarly, capital requirements may escalate, particularly in sectors like agriculture and forestry, which are highly susceptible to climate-induced hazards and require robust adaptation measures. The physical risks of climate change, Downstream (Portfolio) All"
"64 8. CONSOLIDATED SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 8.1. General Disclosures Basis for Preparation IRO 2-59 BP 1-5- a,b Framework and Data Selection This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 amending Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, Directive 2004/109/EC, Directive 2006/43/EC and Directive 2013/34/EU, as regards corporate sustainability reporting (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive – CSRD), the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS), alongside the requirements of Article 8 of EU Regulation 2020/852 on establishing a framework to facilitate sustainable investment (EU Taxonomy) and the local legislation transposing CSRD ((NBR Order no. 27/2010 for approving accounting Regulations in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, republished, with subsequent amendments).). The disclosures included in the Environmental Information, Social Information and Governance Information (ESG) chapters (Topical Chapters) have been assessed as material according to our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA)16 or are mandatory according to the ESRS Standards. All disclosure requirements and data points corresponding to topics and sub-topics that resulted as immaterial during the DMA17, are not included in this statement. After the identification of material topics in the DMA, the EFRAG Guidance was used to map the material sustainability matters to the relevant disclosure requirements. Measurement Basis The International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) accounting policies as presented in the annual financial statements have been applied consistently in the financial year. Calculation methodologies used are listed on the pages with the relevant metrics and references. Consolidation The Sustainability Statement for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 (the Sustainability Statement) has been prepared on a consolidated basis, and is aligned with the perimeter used for preparing the IFRS Financial Statements. The scope of consolidation is indicated in Note 2 b) Basis for consolidation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and comprises BRD Groupe Société Générale S.A. (the “Bank” or “BRD”), BRD Sogelease IFN S.A. (BRD Sogelease), BRD Asset Management SAI S.A. (BRD Asset Management) and BRD Finance S.A.18. For the purpose of the Sustainability Statement the consolidated entity (BRD and its subsidiaries) 16 DMA has been performed based on data available at the time when the analysis was realized. Improvements will be considered in the next reporting cycles. 17 For more information please refers to the Annex chapter, table - Content Index - list of the Disclosure Requirements 18 As at 31 December 2024, BRD Finance S.A. was in a run off process planned to be finalized in 2025 (under voluntary liquidation), with its activity kept at a minimum level, thus not influencing materially the disclosures in the Sustainability Statement."
"200 MDR-A MDR-T Actions Related to Business Conduct During 2024, BRD Group enhanced its ethical compliance framework, focusing on conflict of interest management, anti-corruption, and promoting an ethical culture across the organization. Key actions included the ongoing dissemination of quarterly newsletters, monthly and quarterly training sessions, and annual risk assessments, all designed to reinforce the principles outlined in the SG’s Code of Conduct. These measures cover all material IROs related to Business Conduct, ensuring compliance with good professional practices. The Group’s ethical framework is supported by dedicated internal policies such as the Deontology Code, Conflict of Interest instruction, and Whistleblowing instruction. This holistic approach affects all employees and third parties, as compliance with the Code of Conduct is mandatory and reinforced through CSR clauses in contracts with third parties. The scope of these actions extends across the entire BRD Group, applying to all subsidiaries and partners. The implementation of these actions is monitored through a quarterly maturity assessment based on five key pillars: Governance Framework, Culture & Conduct Monitoring, Conduct Risk Management, HR Processes, and Communication. The Bank’s target is to reach an “Advanced” level of maturity across all five pillars, with a quarterly update of the progress presented to the Compliance Committee. The Bank continues to address the risk of bribery and corruption by enhancing its governance framework, regularly conducting risk assessments, and delivering ABC training through e-learning and face-to-face sessions. As part of its ongoing efforts, BRD has published its “Principles and Rules Governing the Fight Against Corruption” on its website and incorporated anti-corruption clauses in contracts with non-client third parties. Future actions focus on strengthening the Culture & Conduct framework, enhancing ABC risk management, and maintaining a zero-tolerance policy on corruption. BRD Group will reassess its maturity level annually and continue to provide training and communication to staff, ensuring that all relevant stakeholders are engaged in upholding the Bank’s commitment to ethical conduct and anti-corruption efforts. Targets For the material IROs related to Business Conduct. BRD Group has not identified any material targets relevant to be disclosed. The Group established processes are anchored within the functions that have day-to-day responsibility for ensuring adherence to its policies."
"202 List of disclosure requirements Page ESRS S1 Own workforce ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 145-149 S1-1 Policies related to own workforce 149-153 S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workforce and workers’ representatives about impacts 154-155 S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns 155-156 S1-4 Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 156-162 S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 162-163 S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 163-164 S1-7 Characteristics of non-employees in the undertaking’s own workforce 165 S1-8 Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 165 S1-9 Diversity metrics 165-166 S1-10 Adequate wages 166 S1-13 Training and skills development metrics 166-167 S1-14 Health and safety metrics 167-168 S1-16 Remuneration metrics (pay gap and total remuneration) 168-169 S1-17 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts 169 ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 170-171 S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users 171-176 S4-2 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts 176-177 S4-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 178-179 S4-4 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end- users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing 179-189"
"40 On deposits, the annual dynamic more than doubled as of December 2024 end compared to December 2023 end, reaching +14.3%* YoY (vs +6.0%* YoY at December 2023 end). Both individual and corporate savings registered a double-digit annual growth. After a year of contraction, the foreign exchange component returned to growth during the second half of the year, mostly driven by higher inflows from corporate segment (+42.4%* YoY at December 2024 end), while the collection in local currency kept stronger on individuals segment (+16.1%* YoY at December 2024 end). On asset quality, the Romanian banking sector remains classified into EBA’s “low risk” bucket with a level of NPL (non-performing loans) ratio <3% and NPL coverage ratio > 55%. As at December 2024 end, NPL ratio increased marginally to the level of 2.46% (vs. 2.37% at December 2023 end). NPL coverage ratio stood high at 67% at September 2024 end (vs. 65% at December 2023 end). The Romanian banking system remains well capitalized, as reflected by the solid capital adequacy ratio of 23.7% as of December 2024 end (vs. 23.6% as of December 2023 end), higher than EU average (20.1% at September 2024 end) and significantly above the overall capital requirements (17.3% as of September 2024 end). This is helped by the high rate of incorporation of profit and potentially by the new regulatory temporary treatments (implemented through art 468 and art 500a of CRR3 in July 2024. On the medium term, a potential negative factor on the capital position could be the implementation of the Basel IV directive (published as of May 2024 end), which may lead to an increase of capital requirements for Romanian banks of 3.6% of risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”) on average by the time it is fully implemented in 2028 (as per NBR Financial Stability Report, June 2024). The Romanian banking system also boasts a strong liquidity position, with a Liquidity Coverage Ratio of 254.9% as of December 2024 end (vs. 280.6% at December 2023 end), remaining well above the minimum regulatory requirement (100%) and the EU average (161.4% at September 2024 end). * variation at constant exchange rate Source: BRD Research, IMF, NBR"
"74 ▪ Data accuracy and reliability: Risk of inconsistencies in sustainability data due to reliance on manual data collection and limited automation. Mitigation: Internal validation processes conducted by the responsible reporting teams, cross- departmental reviews. ▪ Regulatory compliance risk: Potential gaps in meeting new or evolving sustainability disclosure requirements. Mitigation: Continuous monitoring of regulatory changes and consultation with subject matter experts, including external consultants. ▪ Internal capacity and expertise: Specialized knowledge on sustainability reporting frameworks still under development, which may impact reporting quality. Mitigation: Ongoing capacity-building efforts, including internal training and collaboration with external consultants. ▪ Timeliness of reporting: Challenges in consolidating data from multiple sources within required timelines. Mitigation: Improving internal coordination, and project management, with clearer and larger intermediate milestones. Integration of Risk Findings BRD Group integrates findings related to sustainability reporting risks through its existing governance processes. Insights gained from previous voluntary reporting cycles are used to improve data collection methods and coordination between departments. Cross-functional collaboration – particularly between Finance, Risk Management Structures and the General Secretariat – ensures that identified reporting challenges are addressed through ad-hoc process adjustments. Future efforts aim to formalize the integration process by implementing dedicated sustainability reporting policies and procedures. Oversight and Reporting Mechanisms Sustainability reporting progress and key challenges are communicated through general reporting mechanisms, such as periodic updates to the EC and Sustainability Committee - ESG. ESG and reporting-related findings are also discussed in relevant working groups when necessary (i.e. ESG by Design Program, ESG working group). Plans are in place to enhance periodic reporting through the establishment of formalized reporting mechanisms to management bodies to ensure improved oversight and decision-making. BRD Group Business Model and Sustainability Strategy SBM-1- 40-a Business Model BRD Group is active in Romania in the banking, leasing and asset management sector. BRD operates as a universal bank providing a comprehensive range of financial products and services to individuals, corporate clients, and public institutions. Its business model integrates traditional banking services with sustainable finance initiatives, aiming to create long-term value for customers, investors and stakeholders. BRD Group's offering extends beyond core banking services, encompassing specialized financial entities such as BRD Asset Management and BRD Sogelease, which contribute to a diversified product offering tailored to different market needs."
"75 SBM 1- 42-a SBM 1- 42-b ESG factors are being progressively integrated into BRD Group’s strategy and processes through SG’s ESG by Design program, which was launched two years ago and is set for completion by the end of 2025. This program is designed to address regulatory expectations and voluntary commitments while embedding sustainability into BRD Group’s core operations. More information on BRD Group business and products is included in the financial part of the Board of Directors Report (Chapter 4. Group activity and results). Inputs BRD Group secures and develops key inputs through strategic planning, partnerships, and adherence to regulatory and sustainability frameworks. The main inputs include: ▪ Financial Capital: Sourced from its shareholders, the main one being Societe Generale, customer deposits, equity, interbank loans and partnerships with international financial institutions such as the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), supporting sustainable finance and other lending programs. ▪ Human Capital: The Bank invests in workforce development through continuous learning programs, ESG-focused training and employee engagement initiatives to align with sustainability goals. ▪ Technology and Digital Infrastructure: BRD Group is enhancing its digital capabilities with investments in fintech partnerships, internet banking including mobile applications, and automation to improve efficiency and customer experience. ▪ Sustainability Integration: ESG considerations are progressively embedded into BRD Group's operations also through the Société Générale Group's ""ESG by Design"" program, aligning with regulatory expectations and voluntary commitments. ▪ Regulatory Compliance: BRD Group operates in compliance with national and EU regulatory frameworks, such as the EU Taxonomy and Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR), ensuring transparency and accountability in its sustainable finance practices. Outputs BRD Group’s outputs translate into a wide range of products and services that contribute to financial inclusion, sustainability and economic development. For retail customers, BRD Group provides a comprehensive suite of banking products for individuals and small businesses, including loans (consumer, mortgage, green loans, investment loans), current account services, and investment solutions including through BRD Asset Management Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) funds. Corporate clients benefit from a diverse range of financial solutions such as investment financing, working capital facilities, sustainability-linked loans (SLLs20) or letters of guarantee, and asset-based leasing through BRD Sogelease, which supports companies 20 Sustainability-linked loans refer to any type of loan instruments and/or contingent facilities (such as bonding lines, guarantee lines or letters of credit) which incentivize the borrower’s achievement of ambitious, predetermined sustainability performance objectives."
"76 SBM 1- 42-c in acquiring energy-efficient equipment or assets contributing to a climate-change objective and transitioning to greener business models. Additionally, specialized financial leasing solutions cater to key sectors such as transportation, agriculture and healthcare, enabling businesses to acquire essential assets while focusing on energy efficiency and sustainability. For investors, BRD Asset Management offers a growing portfolio of ESG-aligned investment funds, supporting investors in aligning their portfolios with sustainability goals while achieving competitive returns. Moreover, the BRD Group’s commitment to sustainable financing , with a target of EUR 2.4 billion by 2027, provides long-term value and aligns with global sustainability trends. Beyond customers and investors, BRD Group actively collaborates with international financial institutions (e.g., IFC, EIB) to facilitate access to financing for green and social projects such as renewable energy, clean mobility, and sustainable urban infrastructure. Furthermore, BRD Group actively contributes to social inclusion by financing public sector initiatives and programs aimed at supporting local employment and vulnerable communities. Value Chain BRD Group's value chain involves a complex ecosystem of suppliers, providers and users of financial services and partners that play a key role in its business model. For more details on the BRD Group value chain please refer to the information reported under ESRS 2-BP-1.5c. SBM-1- 40 a, e, f Commitment to Sustainability and Responsible Finance BRD Group is committed to building a better and more sustainable future in collaboration with its clients through responsible and innovative financial solutions that address climate change and broader sustainability challenges. To address climate change and social challenges, BRD Group has also adapted its products and services, embedding ESG principles into its offerings. A wide range of green, social, sustainable and sustainability-linked financing solutions are available. Sustainable financing refers to financial transactions that generate environmental and/or social benefits, aligning with either the Green & Sustainability Linked Loans Framework or the Green Financing Framework, and may include positive impact financing (PIF), sustainability-linked loans (SLL), and other specialized loans like blue or gender loans. Sustainable financing encompasses green or social loans used to finance or refinance eligible Green/Social Projects, with methodologies and criteria that are internally defined by BRD Group and different from the EU Taxonomy's criteria, being less stringent than those in the EU Taxonomy. Consequently, not all sustainable finance provided by BRD Group will meet the strict criteria for EU Taxonomy alignment and the Sustainable Financing metric and target presented hereinafter in this report is an internal metric and must not be confused with the Green Asset Ratio (GAR) KPI under the EU Taxonomy."
"77 For retail customers, key offerings include Habitat Verde loans and Expresso Verde loans, designed to support environmentally friendly and responsible individuals financing. Moreover, BRD Group is expanding its green loan offerings under EU Invest sustainability support schemes and establishing partnerships with energy efficiency solution providers, such as solar panel providers, to scale up its green financing solutions. For non-retail clients, BRD Group provides tailored financial solutions across different industries, including energy and the power sector (with a focus on renewable sources), utilities, and real estate, particularly for green buildings. More specifically, BRD Group leverages Sustainable and Positive Impact Finance (SPIF) and Sustainability-Linked Loans (SLL) to support renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. BRD Group also supports clean transportation, logistics, and distribution by financing infrastructure that facilitates sustainable mobility. The Bank also prioritizes fostering sustainable actions within its operational geography, focusing on smart municipalities and local authorities, circular economy initiatives, medical services, green buildings, water treatment, and biodiversity projects. BRD Sogelease, the financial leasing arm of BRD Group, is committed to supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy by increasing green and sustainable financing solutions tailored to industries such as transportation, energy transition and circular economy projects. In its endevour, BRD Sogelease is also using a financing facility provided by EIB. This initiative supports customers' industries such as agriculture, transportation and logistics by applying specific technical criteria. For 2024, BRD Sogelease had an objective to reach a 12% share of sustainability related financing out of the total new financing volumes granted to its clients (14.5% as at December 31, 2024) As such, in 2024, a dedicated commercial campaign provided favorable financing conditions for companies using financial leasing solutions to acquire low-emission vehicles. In the investment domain, BRD Group focuses on sustainability-linked swaps for corporate clients and structured placements with sustainability features for individuals, alongside an increasing number of ESG-focused investment funds managed by BRD Asset Management. BRD Asset Management considers the sustainable investment principles, being a member of the Principles for Sustainable Investments since 2023, making it the only Romanian asset manager part of this initiative. With a strong commitment to reducing environmental and social risks, BRD Asset Management is actively building a globally diversified portfolio that includes equities and tradable ETF UCITS, ensuring exposure to global equity markets with ESG characteristics at the aggregate portfolio level. During the reporting period, BRD Group has continued to focus on sustainability-related financing, addressing the growing demand for green and sustainable financial products. The growing interest in sectors such as renewable energy, sustainable buildings construction, energy efficiencies and electric mobility, reflects the BRD Group’s contribution to support the transition to a low-carbon economy. Each transaction undergoes a rigorous impact assessment process and is structured based on internationally recognized standards (depending on the type of product, we refer to LMA Green Loans principles, LMA Sustainability-linked loans principles, LMA Social loans principles, ICMA Sustainability-linked bonds Principles; in addition, relevant transactions take into account technical screening criteria as per the EU Taxonomy Regulation), with"
"78 SBM-1- 40 g a commitment to ensuring that financed projects deliver tangible environmental and social benefits (e.g. for corporate clients BRD requires ESG impact reports depending on the type of transaction – these may include KPIs to be respected by customers, such as reduction in emissions, carbon / energy efficiency, energy consumption reduction, etc.). As part of its sustainability strategy under the Horizons 2025 plan, BRD Group aimed to achieve a cumulated production of sustainable financing of > EUR 1 billion by 2025 (cumulated over 3 years), contributing to SG’s overall commitment of EUR 300 billion in sustainable transactions. This target was achieved in September 2024. This has led to a more ambitious target of EUR 2.4 billion21 by 2027 set as part of the updated strategic plan, Horizons 2027. In addition, BRD Group is enhancing its collaboration with financial institutions such as the IFC, the EIB (through EIF), and leveraging EU funds, including the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), to support sustainability projects across various sectors. Under this framework, BRD Group is developing and promoting Climate, Blue22 and Gender23 financing through an extended partnership with the IFC, and energy efficiency and social financing through partnership with the EIF, while Sogelease is strengthening its cooperation with the EIB to facilitate green financing solutions for SMEs. Q1 2024 was marked by a landmark transaction on Romanian market, namely an innovative Synthetic Risk Transfer (SRT) transaction closed with IFC on a reference portfolio of EUR 700 million, transaction that enabled BRD to free up capital with the purpose to boost capabilities in financing of impactful sustainability-related projects in Romania (more than EUR 300m committed to finance climate-related initiatives and women-owned small businesses). See note 10.1 Loans and advances to customers from Consolidated and separate financial statements. Additionally, in 2024, BRD Group has further strengthened its digital banking services, enhancing accessibility for individuals and business clients through improved online platforms and mobile banking applications. This has led to an increase in digitally active customers, with a growing number of clients preferring online and remote banking solutions. BRD Group’s Sustainability Strategy BRD Group’s strategy incorporates key elements that directly impact sustainability matters, with a strong focus on supporting environmental transition, aligning with global climate goals, and addressing critical sustainability challenges. BRD Group’s Sustainability Strategy is aligned with the four strategic pillars of Société Générale (SG) Group: 21 For more information related to this target, please refer to Chapter “Environmental Information”, Section “Metric and Target - Established Targets Related to Climate Change” 22 Blue financing refers to ocean- friendly projects and critical clean water resources protection 23 Gender financing refers to the allocation and use of financial resources in a way that promotes gender equality and addresses gender disparities and empower women and men to contribute equally to society’s development"
"79 ▪ Environmental Transition: accompany all client segments in their transition, with innovative solutions to serve their changing needs. ▪ Positive Local Impact: be a catalyst for positive societal and economic impact for communities across geographies ▪ Culture of Responsibility: maintain high standards of governance, with a corporate purpose that drives our values and mindset ▪ Responsible Employer: offer an attractive, inclusive and engaging working environment The strategy addresses sustainability matters by integrating ESG considerations into financial operations, risk management and corporate governance. The pillar “Environmental Transition” revolves around three main objectives: supporting clients in their sustainability transition, contributing to SG’s climate commitments, and reducing BRD Group’s own environmental footprint. In this sense, BRD Group is actively working to align its portfolio with SG Group's Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) commitments, which aims to achieve carbon neutrality across key emissions-intensive sectors. SG has implemented origination guidelines for the top ten most carbon-intensive sectors, including thermal coal, oil & gas, power generation, cement, aluminum, steel, automotive, shipping, aviation, and commercial real estate, which have been transposed locally, to BRD Group. Sector-specific transition plans will be developed using a color- coded asset classification system to facilitate compliance with regulatory requirements, including CSRD and the means of operationalizing them will be assessed by the end of 2025. To contribute to this effort, BRD Group set the target to deliver EUR 2.4 billion in sustainable finance24 production by 2027 and is increasing the share of green finance in BRD Sogelease’s portfolio, while gradually reducing exposure to customers and industries with high ESG risks. BRD Group is committed also to minimizing its environmental footprint by setting ambitious reduction targets for its operations, including IT infrastructure - achieving a 55% reduction in the carbon footprint of its own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline. Thus, BRD Group is implementing initiatives such as green IT strategies, fleet greening programs, and energy efficiency measures to ensure a continuous reduction in operational emissions. For more details, please refer to Chapter Climate Change, section Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Management, sub-section Actions Related to Climate Change Adaptation, Climate Change Mitigation and Energy. Socially, BRD Group fosters economic transformation by supporting SMEs, municipalities, and local entrepreneurs through targeted financing and awareness initiatives, including gender finance and programs dedicated to social inclusion. 24 Sustainable financing refers to financial transactions that generate environmental and/or social benefits, aligning with either the Green & Sustainability Linked Loans Framework or the Green Financing Framework, and may include positive impact financing (PIF), sustainability-linked loans (SLL), and other specialized loans like blue or gender loans. Sustainable financing encompasses green or social loans used to finance or refinance eligible Green/Social Projects, with methodologies and criteria that are internally defined and distinct from the EU Taxonomy's criteria, being less stringent than those in the EU Taxonomy. Consequently, not all sustainable finance provided by BRD Group will meet the strict criteria for EU Taxonomy alignment and the Sustainable Financing metric and target presented hereinafter in this report is an internal metric and must not be confused with the Green Asset Ratio (GAR) KPI under the EU Taxonomy."
"80 Governance-wise, BRD Group has embedded ESG principles into its decision-making processes, implementing performance-linked sustainability metrics25 for senior management and strengthening oversight through an ESG Working Group. BRD Group anticipates several challenges in achieving its sustainability goals. Adapting to evolving EU regulations, such as CSRD and the EU Taxonomy, while ensuring transparency in reporting, remains a key priority. Additionally, assisting high-carbon sectors in their transition poses significant client transition risks, requiring careful management of associated credit and reputational exposures. Furthermore, scaling sustainable finance to meet the growing market demand while aligning product offerings with evolving environmental standards presents a strategic challenge that BRD Group aims to address through continuous innovation and strategic partnerships. Another critical challenge is the availability and quality of data, particularly in financed emissions reporting, which BRD Group introduces for the first time in 2024, necessitating robust data collection and analysis capabilities. BRD Group Stakeholder Engagement SBM-2- 45 a BRD Group recognizes the importance of effective stakeholder engagement as a key component of its business strategy and sustainability efforts. Thus, it actively interacts with a diverse range of stakeholders to identify their expectations, address concerns and adapt its strategies accordingly to manage impacts, risks and opportunities. The primary objectives of BRD Group’s stakeholder engagement efforts are to understand stakeholder expectations and concerns, strengthen trust and long-term relationships, align business objectives with stakeholder needs, drive continuous improvement in products and services, and integrate ESG factors into business operations and decision-making. The insights gathered from these interactions form a continuous feedback loop (feedbacks from customers interactions, market research, surveys are collected at different moments, through various channels), allowing BRD Group to adapt its products and services based on customer input, enhance employee policies and working conditions, improve transparency for investors and regulators, shape corporate social responsibility initiatives in response to community needs, and refine strategic planning to align with market and regulatory expectations. BRD Group’s key stakeholders include: ▪ Employees – As the foundation of BRD Group’s operations, employees are engaged through various internal communication and feedback mechanisms (i.e. employee satisfaction survey, customer satisfaction survey, whistleblowing channels, 25 Please refer to section GOV-4 above"
"paragraph 40 (d) iii x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv x Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 x 105 ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) x x 105 ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 x x x 123-126 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 x Not material material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions S4-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 190"
"80 Governance-wise, BRD Group has embedded ESG principles into its decision-making processes, implementing performance-linked sustainability metrics25 for senior management and strengthening oversight through an ESG Working Group. BRD Group anticipates several challenges in achieving its sustainability goals. Adapting to evolving EU regulations, such as CSRD and the EU Taxonomy, while ensuring transparency in reporting, remains a key priority. Additionally, assisting high-carbon sectors in their transition poses significant client transition risks, requiring careful management of associated credit and reputational exposures. Furthermore, scaling sustainable finance to meet the growing market demand while aligning product offerings with evolving environmental standards presents a strategic challenge that BRD Group aims to address through continuous innovation and strategic partnerships. Another critical challenge is the availability and quality of data, particularly in financed emissions reporting, which BRD Group introduces for the first time in 2024, necessitating robust data collection and analysis capabilities. BRD Group Stakeholder Engagement SBM-2- 45 a BRD Group recognizes the importance of effective stakeholder engagement as a key component of its business strategy and sustainability efforts. Thus, it actively interacts with a diverse range of stakeholders to identify their expectations, address concerns and adapt its strategies accordingly to manage impacts, risks and opportunities. The primary objectives of BRD Group’s stakeholder engagement efforts are to understand stakeholder expectations and concerns, strengthen trust and long-term relationships, align business objectives with stakeholder needs, drive continuous improvement in products and services, and integrate ESG factors into business operations and decision-making. The insights gathered from these interactions form a continuous feedback loop (feedbacks from customers interactions, market research, surveys are collected at different moments, through various channels), allowing BRD Group to adapt its products and services based on customer input, enhance employee policies and working conditions, improve transparency for investors and regulators, shape corporate social responsibility initiatives in response to community needs, and refine strategic planning to align with market and regulatory expectations. BRD Group’s key stakeholders include: ▪ Employees – As the foundation of BRD Group’s operations, employees are engaged through various internal communication and feedback mechanisms (i.e. employee satisfaction survey, customer satisfaction survey, whistleblowing channels, 25 Please refer to section GOV-4 above"
"81 complaints channels available for employees and customers, previous stakeholder engagement, etc.). ▪ Capital Market – Investors and analysts who seek transparent financial and non- financial disclosures. ▪ Sectorial or Market Associations – Partnerships that support the development of financial industry standards and policies. ▪ Unions – Representing employee interests in negotiations and organizational development. ▪ Clients – Both individuals and corporate customers who rely on BRD for financial products and services. ▪ Local and Central Authorities – Regulatory bodies that ensure compliance with legal and ethical standards. ▪ Mass-Media – Ensuring transparency and public communication of BRD Group’s operations and initiatives. ▪ Suppliers – Essential partners in maintaining operational efficiency and service quality. ▪ Shareholders – Providing capital and strategic direction for the Bank’s growth and sustainability initiatives. ▪ Competitors – Collaborating within industry frameworks to ensure fair competition and sectoral progress. ▪ Local Communities – Beneficiaries of BRD Group’s corporate social responsibility initiatives and sustainable finance efforts. The consultation was done mainly via NGOs we are working with. BRD Group engages with all identified stakeholders on a regular basis through structured communication channels. Engagement occurs across various key areas, such as sustainability, financial performance, regulatory compliance, and social responsibility. This engagement is managed through formalized communication structures and dedicated functions within BRD Group, ensuring an efficient and structured approach. Table 3 - Key engagement methods Customer Relations - Dedicated phone lines and email addresses for suggestions and complaints. - Special web pages to collect customer feedback. - Internal procedures for handling and analyzing customer feedback to enhance service quality. Employee Dialogue - Regular meetings with employee representatives and unions. - Periodic satisfaction surveys and organizational diagnostic studies. - Confidential channels for employees to voice concerns and provide suggestions. Shareholder and Investor Communication - Dedicated investor relations department to ensure transparency and equal access to information. - Regular financial reports, conference calls, and an investor-dedicated website section for continuous communication."
"82 SBM 2- 45 b SBM 2- 45 c Interaction with Authorities - Compliance and regulatory departments ensure cooperation with local and central authorities. - Active participation in shaping and improving legal frameworks through collaborative initiatives. Engagement with Other Banks and Associations - BRD is an active member of the Romanian Banking Association (ARB) and the Council of Banking Employers in Romania (CPBR), advocating for sector-wide improvements and fair competition. BRD AM is a member of the Association of Fund Administrators (AAF). BRD SOGELEASE is a member of the Romanian Association of Financial Companies (ALB) and of the Romanian Leasing and Credit Owners Association (PLCR). Community Engagement - Partnerships with local organizations and participation in social initiatives aimed at education, financial inclusion, and environmental sustainability. Engagement with suppliers - Suppliers are engaged through the Group tool, Sourcing Hub, deployed in all entities, including BRD. - Email communication is used for various exchanges, as well as regular meetings with suppliers. Engagement with mass media - Constant care for transparency and pro-active attitude through the Communication Department, which manages the main tools for media relations, through press releases, press conferences, digital communication, social media and partnerships with various events, in order to offer a fair image on BRD’s activities, strategy and role in the Romanian economy. Aligning strategy to stakeholders’ expectations BRD Group’s key stakeholders have expressed a growing interest in responsible banking practices, sustainable finance solutions, and increased transparency regarding ESG- related risks and opportunities. In response, BRD Group has aligned its strategic objectives with these expectations by embedding sustainability considerations into its operations through the Société Générale Group’s ESG by Design program and the Horizons 2025/2027 strategic plans. For its clients, BRD Group has expanded its portfolio with sustainable financing solutions, as detailed in the previous Section BRD Group Business Model and Sustainability Strategy. Internally, BRD Group prioritizes employee well-being and professional development, conducting satisfaction surveys, fostering an inclusive workplace culture, and providing sustainability-related training programs."
"83 SBM 2- 45 d S1-SBM 2-12 Investors and shareholders benefit from enhanced transparency through ESG disclosures, including on assumed commitments. The interaction with regulatory authorities ensures compliance with evolving sustainability-related regulations, while proactive collaboration with local communities has led to initiatives in areas such as financial literacy, circular economy, and social inclusion. BRD Group also works closely with municipalities and local authorities to advance smart city projects, sustainable infrastructure, and biodiversity initiatives. Additionally, ESG criteria are integrated into procurement processes, strengthening relationships with responsible suppliers. To maintain transparency and accountability, BRD Group is also committed to enhancing its reporting practices by implementing more robust impact assessment methodologies and engaging third-party ESG rating providers for independent evaluations of its sustainability performance. In 2024, Sustainable Fitch has upgraded BRD-Groupe Société Générale S.A.'s (BRD) ESG Entity Rating to '2' from '3' and improved its entity score to 63 from 60. To facilitate the integration of stakeholder expectations in the strategic objectives, the BoD and the EC are regularly – at least annually – informed through reports, performance reviews, and direct engagement initiatives such as shareholder meetings, regulatory dialogues, and client and employee feedback channels. Interests and views of own workforce and their impact on the BRD Group’s strategy and business model BRD Group recognizes its own workforce as a key stakeholder group and integrates its interests, views and rights into its strategy and business model through an approach aimed at fostering an engaging and inclusive working environment. As a responsible employer, BRD Group has set clear objectives to offer an attractive and engaging workplace by building an “employee-centric” organization. This involves initiatives focused on employee wellbeing, simplification of processes, and the implementation of people-oriented programs designed to enhance job satisfaction and work-life balance. BRD Group actively engages with employees through regular dialogue, surveys, and feedback mechanisms to ensure their needs and concerns are addressed in shaping strategic decisions. In line with its commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I), BRD Group promotes awareness and integrates DE&I principles into HR processes. The organization is committed to implementing fair remuneration practices and actively working towards ensuring equitable treatment and equal career advancement opportunities for all employees. These efforts are reinforced through internal policies and programs that support a culture of respect, inclusion, and professional growth. BRD Group is also committed to growing its people by equipping them with the necessary skills and competencies aligned with the evolving business landscape and sustainability"
"84 S4-SBM 2-8 objectives. The bank rewards employees for acquiring new skills and recognizes performance based on collective and individual KPIs. The deployment of a leadership competence model across its HR processes, along with mentoring programs and ESG- focused training initiatives such as the ESG Academy and Blue and Gender Finance courses, demonstrates BRD Group's proactive approach to aligning workforce development with sustainability goals. Through these initiatives, BRD Group ensures that the interests and rights of its workforce are embedded in its strategic direction and business operations. The continuous assessment and improvement of employee engagement strategies, coupled with leadership’s commitment to fostering an inclusive and supportive culture, reflect BRD's dedication to being a responsible employer that values and empowers its workforce. There are several internal documents, covering all employees, which provide clauses referring to the respect of human rights, such as freedom of association, right to freely exercise the union rights, freedom of opinion, equality of chances and treatment, non- discrimination, elimination of any form of dignity infringement, health and safety work environment and proper work conditions. These clauses are reflected in principle in the Internal Regulation, the Deontology Code and, in case of BRD and BRD Sogelease, the Collective Labor Contract (already in force in case of BRD and in course of registration with authorities in case of BRD Sogelease). According to the Employee Barometer for 2024 (76% participation rate), BRD Group had 73% of the respondents considering that they have a balance between their professional/personal life, 95% of the respondents considered that the behavior of their team is ethic and responsible, 85% of the respondents considered that they can speak up freely. Interests and views of clients and their impact on BRD Group’s strategy and business model BRD Group integrates the interests, views, and rights of its clients into its strategy and business model by offering responsible and innovative financial solutions. As a key stakeholder group, the clients are at the core of BRD Group's commitment to contributing to a better and more sustainable future. BRD Group continuously engages with its clients (i.e. day to day interaction of relationship managers, contact center, NPS benchmark) to understand their evolving needs and expectations, shaping its offerings to align with their sustainability goals and social well-being. For both corporate and retail clients, BRD Group provides adapted financing solutions supporting businesses to transition towards more sustainable operations while contributing to broader community goals and making sustainable investments more accessible to individual clients. Details were included in the previous Section, BRD Group Business Model and Sustainability Strategy."
"85 In the investment domain, BRD Asset Management develops financial products with sustainability-linked features, offering structured placements for individual investors and an increased number of ESG-focused investment funds. These initiatives provide clients with responsible investment opportunities that align with their values and sustainability goals. Additionally, BRD Sogelease focuses on promoting green financing in specific industries, supporting the decarbonization of transport and facilitating the transition to a circular economy through tailored financing solutions. BRD Group actively supports economic and social transformation by offering financing solutions to municipalities for infrastructure development on both large and small scales. BRD Group also assists SMEs in their sustainability transition through awareness-raising initiatives such as the SME District and SME Summit, providing educational resources and financing options tailored to their needs. Gender and social finance are also covered, with BRD Group actively promoting female entrepreneurship through the IFC partnership, which aims to support local businesses with dedicated funding of 78 MEUR until 2027. To enhance sustainable mobility, BRD Group focuses its automotive sector strategy on financing companies that develop and produce parts for electric and hybrid vehicles, alongside standard green fleet financing products in partnership with IFC. BRD Sogelease continues to expand its offerings by financing zero-emission cars and commercial vehicles, encouraging clients to adopt cleaner transportation options. BRD Group is committed to financial inclusion and education, developing customized financial products for specific client segments such as students and pensioners, and enhancing accessibility through e-accessibility solutions for disabled customers. Ensuring the physical and digital security of clients remains a top priority, with continuous investment in cybersecurity technologies and robust data protection measures. Furthermore, BRD Group strengthens its social impact by supporting national projects in education, culture, and environmental protection. Initiatives such as the Climate Change Summit, Fundatia 9 programs (Scena 9, Scoala 9, Rezidenta 9), and the Mindcraft Youth program demonstrate the Bank’s commitment to raising awareness and fostering long- term positive change. Double Materiality Assessment Process IRO 1-53 a Methodology BRD Group has established a structured double materiality assessment process to identify and evaluate sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) from both financial and impact perspectives. This process is aligned with the requirements of the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS 1), ensuring a thorough consideration of how sustainability matters influence the Group’s financial performance, as well as the Group’s broader impact on the environment and society. The assessment"
"94 G1-IRO 1-6 The identification of impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular economy followed the process outlined above (refer to ESRS 2-IRO-1.53a). Resource inflows and waste were considered relevant both for upstream and own operations, while resource outflows were considered relevant only for downstream value chain. At upstream and own operations level, were mainly identified impacts related to the consumption of paper and other resources that contribute to the production of waste. Considering the type of BRD Group activities, the identified relevant impacts were considered not material. At portfolio level, were identified mainly impacts connected to specific sectors that use significant amounts of resources generating waste. Also, were identified some positive impacts related to the capacity of BRD Group to finance circular economy initiatives. The analysis took in consideration also risks related to the financing of sectors of activities that can encounter growing financial expenditure related to the proper management of waste. Following the assessment, none of the impacts, risks and opportunities resulted material. Business Conduct The identification of impacts, risks and opportunities in relation to business conduct was conducted in alignment with the double materiality process previously described. For the scope of the analysis, were considered the main activities performed by BRD Group. The impacts, risks and opportunities in relation to business conduct were analysed mainly for the activities related to upstream and own operations. For further details on the identified material impacts, risks and opportunities please refer to the disclosure ESRS 2-SBM- 3.48. The double materiality assessment will be re-evaluated in a regular annual process. including the due diligence process and engagement with stakeholders. Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities SBM-3 48 a, h The following information gives an overview of BRD Group’s material impacts, risks and opportunities that resulted from the DMA (see IRO-1), and how they interact with the strategy and business model. In Table 3 below, all material IROs are listed, based on the sustainability matter they relate to, the type of IRO, the position in the value chain and the relevant time horizon. Table 4 – Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Sustainability Matter Topics→sub- topic→sub- sub-topic Type of IRO IRO Description Value chain Time horizon E1-Climate change adaptation Climate change→ climate change adaptation Risk BRD faces a multifaceted array of risks across various sectors due to climate change and the transition to a more sustainable economy. Rapid or misaligned implementation of ESG products could lead to strategic missteps if not matched with market demand. Similarly, capital requirements may escalate, particularly in sectors like agriculture and forestry, which are highly susceptible to climate-induced hazards and require robust adaptation measures. The physical risks of climate change, Downstream (Portfolio) All"
"95 Sustainability Matter Topics→sub- topic→sub- sub-topic Type of IRO IRO Description Value chain Time horizon such as extreme weather events, pose significant threats to supply chains and infrastructure, notably within the automotive and construction industries, leading to potential disruptions and financial strain. These acute and chronic risks can result in asset devaluation, stranded assets and reputational damage if investments are perceived as contributing to or being vulnerable to environmental risks. For BRD Group, increased operational costs due to environmental regulation compliance, fines, and the transition to electric vehicles could negatively impact clients' creditworthiness and repayment capacity. The agriculture sector also faces heightened risks from crop losses due to environmental factors, which could lead to financial instability for farmers and affect lending activities. E1-Climate change adaptation Climate change→ climate change adaptation Opportunity There is an opportunity to contribute in sustainability by financing projects that increase climate resilience, encourage environmentally friendly agricultural practices, and facilitate the adoption of low-carbon technologies across various sectors, including automotive, construction, and manufacturing. This encompasses investments in infrastructure for electric vehicles, sustainable construction methods, and enhancements to supply chain efficiency. By offering customized financial solutions for these initiatives, BRD can contribute to the advancement of a more sustainable economy. Downstream (Portfolio) Medium- and long- term E1-Climate change mitigation Climate mitigation→ climate mitigation Negative Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through the contribution to increased Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 carbon emissions (excluding financed emissions) due to the use of non-renewable energy sources in the BRD Group locations, and through the use of fossil fuel-powered vehicles within the security and cash transportation activities, which could amplify the negative environmental impact. Own operations Medium- and long- term E1-Climate change mitigation Climate mitigation→ climate mitigation Negative Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through a wide range of sectoral activities that significantly contribute to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. This includes the financing of agricultural practices, construction projects, and energy production that led to increased GHG emissions, such as those in the Extraction of natural gas, Electric power generation, Transmission and distribution, Manufacture of basic iron and steel sectors, Oil and gas and Thermal coal. Transportation activities, particularly in the Freight transport by road and non-specialized wholesale trade sectors, exacerbate emissions, especially when relying on fossil fuel- powered vehicles. Additionally, real estate developments under the Real estate activities on a fee or contract basis sector, as well as healthcare and public Downstream (Portfolio) All"
"96 Sustainability Matter Topics→sub- topic→sub- sub-topic Type of IRO IRO Description Value chain Time horizon administration facilities, contribute to the carbon footprint through energy- consuming processes. These cumulative emissions from various industries and infrastructure developments not only intensify the greenhouse effect but also increase the risk of natural disasters related to climate change. E1-Climate change mitigation Climate mitigation→ climate mitigation Risk In the face of stringent environmental commitments and market evolution towards sustainability, BRD Group is facing significant climate change risks across multiple sectors. BRD Group is at risk of market share erosion if it fails to align its product offerings with escalating ESG demands, while an overly rapid deployment of ESG products could misalign with client demand, leading to strategic missteps. Similarly, BRD Group may see a decline in business due to the negative impacts of climate change on the financial health of clients in sectors such as agriculture, furniture manufacturing, and road freight, where scepticisms about the commercial viability of battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and increased operational costs due to environmental regulations could hinder the transition to sustainable practices. Additionally, fiscal developments, such as changes in VAT and reduced incentives for green technologies, further exacerbate these challenges. Downstream (Portfolio) Medium- and long- term E1-Climate change mitigation Climate mitigation→ climate mitigation Opportunity BRD Group is well-positioned to materialize a wide range of sustainability initiatives by offering tailored financing solutions that support the transition to a greener economy. Key opportunities include financing projects in agriculture and construction that support climate resilience, supporting the automotive sector’s shift to electric vehicles and alternative fuels, and aiding the construction industry in adopting energy- efficient technologies. Additionally, BRD Group supports sustainable practices in agriculture, furniture manufacturing, and road freight, while promoting circular economy principles. It also provides specialized financial products like ESG and green loans, invests in renewable energy solutions, and supports consumer adoption of green technologies through government subsidy programs. Downstream (Portfolio) Medium- and long- term E1-Energy Climate change→ energy Negative Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through the use of non-renewable energy sources and the lack of effective measures to optimize energy consumption in the BRD Group's locations, which can lead to an increased carbon footprint and inefficient resource use, also contributing to climate change. Own operations Medium- and long- term E1-Energy Climate change→ energy Positive Impact/ potential BRD Group’s financing of renewable energy projects supports the generation of clean energy which is important for transitioning to net-zero. This shift helps mitigate climate change while promoting Downstream (Portfolio) Long- term"
"97 Sustainability Matter Topics→sub- topic→sub- sub-topic Type of IRO IRO Description Value chain Time horizon sustainable growth within the earth's natural boundaries. E1-Energy Climate change→ energy Negative Impact/ actual By financing energy-intensive companies that rely on fossil fuels can lead to a high level of GHG emissions, which in turn aggravates climate change and its effects. Downstream (Portfolio) Long- term E1-Energy Climate change→ energy Risk BRD Group is navigating risks associated with the growing demand for energy- efficient housing and the transition to green power production. As energy efficiency becomes a priority, construction costs for such houses may rise, potentially impacting housing affordability and the demand for mortgage loans. BRD Group also faces the operational challenge of collecting Energy Performance Certificates (EPCs) for both new and existing mortgage loans, a process that could incur significant costs and affect compliance status if the cost-benefit analysis does not support widespread EPC acquisition. Downstream (Portfolio) Medium- and long- term E1-Energy Climate change→ energy Opportunity BRD Group plans to catalyse the sustainable transformation across various sectors, providing financial services that promote the growth of the green economy. BRD Group can support the automotive industry's shift towards electric vehicles, contributing to a comprehensive decarbonization strategy. In clean energy, there is potential to finance new low-carbon power generation projects, capitalizing on regulatory stability and long-term financial agreements. Downstream (Portfolio) Medium- and long- term S1-Adequate wages Own workforce→ working conditions→ adequate wages Positive Impact/ potential The impact may manifest through offering fair and competitive wages that reflect the work performed and ensure a decent standard of living for employees. Own operations All S1-Freedom of association, the existence of works councils and the information, consultation and participation rights of workers Own workforce→ working conditions→ Freedom of association, the existence of works councils and the information, consultation and participation rights of workers Positive Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through respecting employees' rights to organize and actively participate in decisions that concern them, through works councils and similar structures. Own operations All S1-Collective bargaining, including rate of workers covered by Own workforce→ working conditions→ Collective Positive Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through effective collective bargaining that ensures fair rights and working conditions for all employees, contributing to their retention. Own operations All"
"98 Sustainability Matter Topics→sub- topic→sub- sub-topic Type of IRO IRO Description Value chain Time horizon collective agreements bargaining, including rate of workers covered by collective agreements S1-Health and safety Own workforce→ working conditions→ health and safety Positive Impact/ actual The impact can be seen in fostering a safe and healthy work environment by promoting mental well-being. Own operations All S1-Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value Own workforce→ Equal treatment and opportunities for all → Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value Negative Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through pay gaps and unequal opportunities between employees based on gender, leading to discrimination and dissatisfaction among staff. Own operations Short- and long- term S1-Training and skills development Own workforce→ Equal treatment and opportunities for all → Training and skills development Positive Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through providing continuous training and skills development programs for employees, enhancing their performance and market competitiveness. Own operations Short- and long- term S1-Training and skills development Own workforce→ Equal treatment and opportunities for all → Training and skills development Risk Inadequate training and education processes can leave employees without the essential skills and knowledge needed to perform their roles effectively, leading to reduced productivity and stifled innovation, ultimately affecting the company’s financial performance. This issue is particularly critical given the skills required for successful digitalization. Own Operations Short- and medium- term S4-Privacy Consumers and end- users → Information- related impacts for consumers and/or end- users → Privacy Risk BRD Group faces significant risks associated with the management of customer data security amidst evolving external cybersecurity threats. The responsibility to safeguard customers' personal information, including sensitive financial details, is paramount. As banking operations increasingly rely on mobile platforms and cloud storage, the potential for security breaches that could compromise personal information, credit, and debit card data, and expose customers to financial fraud and data theft, escalates. These risks not only threaten the financial integrity of customers but also pose substantial legal and reputational risks to the Bank, emphasizing the critical need for robust cybersecurity measures and vigilant data security management. Own operations Short- term S4-Access to (quality) information Consumers and end- users → Information- related Risk In the financial sector, access to clear and quality information is crucial for maintaining customer trust and brand reputation. Ambiguities in policy terms, product details, and sales practices can Own Operations Short- term"
"99 Sustainability Matter Topics→sub- topic→sub- sub-topic Type of IRO IRO Description Value chain Time horizon impacts for consumers and/or end- users → Access to (quality) information lead to brand damage, legal disputes, and a reduction in the range of services and products offered by entities like BRD. Customers who are dissatisfied due to misleading or unclear information may reduce their engagement with the Bank's products, leading to adverse financial consequences. Conversely, entities that ensure transparency in their policy terms and provide products that are well-suited to their customers can safeguard their brand reputation, minimize regulatory scrutiny, and protect shareholder value. Additionally, improper communication of Compliance & Ethics (C&E) data and reports can result in diminished investor interest, which could negatively affect the funding and growth prospects of BRD Group. S4-Security of a person Consumers and end- users → Information- related impacts for consumers and/or end- users → Security of a person Risk BRD faces significant risks related to digital security, which could compromise client safety during online operations. Such breaches may result in financial losses, regulatory fines, and substantial reputational damage. Own operations Short- term S4-Access to products and services Consumers and end- users → Social inclusion of consumers and/or endusers → Access to products and services Positive Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through initiatives that contribute to improved access to essential services such as healthcare and housing, particularly in old age. This includes providing life insurance policies that ensure policyholders can cover medical expenses upon retirement and help beneficiaries secure financial stability for home ownership. Additionally, the impact extends to broadening the accessibility of the Bank's products and services to all categories of people, including vulnerable groups, by adapting infrastructure, procedures, and technologies to be more inclusive and user-friendly. Own operations Short- and long- term S4- Sustainable Finance (Entity Specific) Positive Impact/ potential The impact may manifest through the implementation of sustainable finance practices that support renewable energy projects, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, protecting the environment, creating green jobs, and improving livelihoods in local communities. Downstream (Portfolio) Medium- and long- term S4- Sustainable Finance (Entity Specific) Opportunity Several key opportunities, including issuing green bonds to fund renewable energy projects, expanding sustainable lending to sectors like eco-friendly real estate and agriculture, and developing ESG investment products to meet growing demand. Downstream (Portfolio) Medium- term G1-Corporate culture Business conduct → Corporate culture Positive Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through the promotion of an ethical and responsible corporate culture that encourages integrity, transparency, and respect in all operations and interactions, contributing to a positive working environment, considering the fact the Bank is a Public Upstream & Own operations Short and long term"
"100 Sustainability Matter Topics→sub- topic→sub- sub-topic Type of IRO IRO Description Value chain Time horizon Interest Entity and listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange . G1-Protection of whistle- blowers Business conduct → Protection of whistle- blowers Positive Impact/ actual The impact may manifest through the implementation of effective whistle- blower protection mechanisms, encouraging the reporting of violations and ensuring their protection from retaliation. Upstream & Own operations Short and long term G1-Prevention and detection including training Business conduct → Business conduct → Corruption and bribery → Prevention and detection including training Positive Impact/ potential The impact may manifest through the implementation of effective corruption prevention and detection programs, including continuous employee training, which fosters a corporate culture based on integrity. Upstream & Own operations Short and long term SBM 3- 48 b SBM 3- 48 c Current and anticipated effects of the material impacts, risks and opportunities on business model, value chain, strategy and decision-making BRD Group acknowledges the significant effects that material impacts, risks and opportunities have on its business model, value chain, strategy and decision-making processes. Thus, BRD Group is committed to proactively addressing its material impacts, risks and opportunities by embedding sustainability into its core business strategy. BRD Group will continue to adapt its business model, decision-making processes and operational framework to align with evolving market demands and regulatory requirements while creating long-term value for stakeholders. BRD Group actively responds to these challenges by integrating sustainability into its operations, ensuring resilience and adaptability in the face of climate change, regulatory requirements and evolving market demands. In addressing climate-related risks and opportunities, BRD Group is refining its strategic approach. For more details please refer to the chapter “Environmental Information, Climate Change. In the social domain, BRD Group is committed to fostering a fair, inclusive and safe work environment by implementing employee training programs, promoting diversity and equal pay and strengthening labor rights. Governance continuous improvements are also central to BRD Group’s strategy, with enhanced anti-corruption measures, ethical corporate practices and transparency initiatives to reinforce stakeholders’ trust. BRD Group’s material negative and positive impacts have significant implications for both people and the environment, influencing various sectors across its value chain. The BRD Group’s financing activities in high-emission industries such as agriculture, construction, and energy production contribute to negative environmental impacts and risks by increasing GHG emissions and exacerbating climate change. Additionally, BRD Group's"
"101 reliance on non-renewable energy sources in its operations contributes to a higher carbon footprint, further amplifying environmental risks. On the social front, financial decisions that fail to incorporate sustainability considerations could result in economic hardships for different stakeholders, such as farmers facing climate-induced crop losses or businesses struggling to meet regulatory compliance costs. Conversely, BRD Group's commitment to sustainability presents significant positive impacts and opportunities that contribute to environmental preservation and social well- being. By financing renewable energy projects, energy-efficient housing and sustainable agricultural practices, BRD Group supports the transition to a low-carbon economy, helping to mitigate climate change and its adverse effects on ecosystems. Investments in sustainable infrastructure and green technologies not only reduce emissions but also create economic opportunities, drive innovation, and enhance resilience against climate risks. Furthermore, BRD Group’s social initiatives, such as promoting fair wages, gender equality and financial inclusion, contribute to improved living standards, enhanced workforce productivity and social cohesion. The material impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) identified by BRD Group are directly connected to and originate from its strategy and business model, which are centered around providing financial services across various sectors. BRD Group’s core business activities, such as lending and investment, inherently influence environmental and social outcomes, both positively and negatively. For instance, the BRD Group's financing of high-emission industries contributes to climate change through increased GHG emissions. At the same time, BRD Group's strategic objectives on financing sustainable projects, such as renewable energy and green infrastructure, demonstrates how its business model actively seeks to mitigate these negative impacts while capitalizing on opportunities arising from the transition to a low-carbon economy. BRD Group's sustainability-driven strategy integrates climate resilience and energy transition considerations, influencing how it structures its financial products and partnerships. The development of Sustainability-Linked Loans (SLLs) and Sustainable Positive Impact Financing (SPIF) directly aligns with its strategic objective to address climate adaptation and mitigation challenges. Additionally, BRD Group’s emphasis on energy-efficient housing and green mortgages reflects its response to the increasing demand for sustainable solutions, which, while presenting compliance and operational challenges, supports BRD Group’s long-term goal of sustainable growth. Moreover, BRD Group’s commitment to employee well-being, diversity, and ethical governance underscores the social dimension of its business model, ensuring that internal operations and decision-making processes contribute positively to broader social outcomes. BRD Group's involvement with material impacts originates both from its direct activities and its extensive business relationships across various sectors. Through its own operations, BRD Group contributes to environmental and social impacts, such as energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from its facilities and fleet, as well as the working conditions and well-being of its employees. For instance, the Bank's reliance on non-renewable energy sources and fossil fuel-powered vehicles results in an increased carbon footprint, while efforts to ensure fair wages, gender equality, and workplace safety demonstrate its commitment to social responsibility. In terms of business relationships, BRD Group's lending and investment activities significantly influence environmental and social outcomes across industries like"
"102 SBM 3- 48 d SBM 3- 48 e agriculture, construction, energy production, and manufacturing. By financing sectors with high environmental footprint, BRD Group is indirectly linked to negative impacts such as increased greenhouse gas emissions and resource depletion. Conversely, BRD Group also plays a critical role in driving positive impacts by financing renewable energy projects, energy-efficient housing, and sustainable infrastructure, which support the transition to a low-carbon economy. Current Financial Effects of Material Risks and Opportunities For this first reporting cycle only a qualitative analysis was performed. The current financial effects of material risks and opportunities on BRD Group's financial position, financial performance and cash flows are estimated to be important, reflecting the evolving sustainability landscape and regulatory pressures. Compliance with evolving EU regulations such as CSRD and EU Taxonomy has resulted in increased operational costs and investments in data collection and reporting infrastructure. From a financial performance perspective, while BRD Group incurs regulatory and transition-related costs, opportunities in sustainable finance—such as the financing of renewable energy projects and climate-resilient infrastructure—are driving revenue diversification and improving market positioning. Cash flows have been affected by the need for upfront investments in sustainable finance initiatives, operational energy efficiency measures, and enhanced risk management capabilities. The definition of the transition plan until the publication of 2027 report may lead to adjustments of credit policies, particularly in sectors heavily exposed to climate transition risks. Similarly, the revaluation of loan portfolios, especially in fossil fuel- dependent industries and energy-intensive sectors, may lead to potential impairments and revised credit risk assessments. Furthermore, BRD Group’s ongoing shift towards sustainable finance products and the gradual phase-out of high-carbon clients may influence the expected cash inflows and require strategic reallocations of financial resources to ensure compliance with long-term sustainability goals. Anticipated Financial Effects of Material Risks and Opportunities The financial implications stem from BRD Group’s exposure to climate change adaptation and mitigation efforts, energy transition financing and social responsibility initiatives. Short-term Financial Effects: In the short term, BRD Group expects increased operational costs related to compliance with environmental regulations and ESG reporting requirements. The transition to sustainable operations, including investments in energy-efficient infrastructure and cybersecurity measures, may lead to higher capital expenditure. Additionally, the demand for ESG-compliant financial products may initially result in misaligned market demand, affecting revenue streams. Medium-term Financial Effects: Over the medium term, BRD Group's financial position is expected to improve as sustainability-driven initiatives begin yielding returns. Investment in renewable energy projects, electric vehicle infrastructure and sustainable construction financing will likely lead to portfolio diversification and enhanced market positioning. These investments are expected to generate stable revenue streams through green loan products and sustainability-linked financial services. However, credit risks associated with sectors"
"103 SBM 3- 48 f SBM 3- 19 b highly exposed to climate change impacts, such as agriculture and real estate, may result in fluctuations in cash flow and potential provisioning for non-performing loans. Long-term Financial Effects: In the long term, BRD Group anticipates a good financial performance driven by the successful integration of sustainability principles into its core business model. BRD Group expects to benefit from regulatory stability, reduced risk exposure and long-term relationships with clients adopting green business models. Capital expenditures in digitalization and sustainable finance solutions will support revenue growth and operational efficiency. Furthermore, BRD Group's strategic focus on financial inclusion and access to essential services, such as healthcare and housing, will expand its market reach and drive long-term profitability. The transition to a greener economy is expected to provide resilience against economic downturns and climate-related financial risks. To support its sustainability strategy, BRD Group plans to allocate capital towards: ● Expanding its portfolio of sustainable finance, including green loans and ESG- compliant financial products26. ● Upgrading its physical infrastructure to meet energy efficiency targets. ● Investing in digitalization to enhance transparency and accessibility of financial services. To implement its strategic initiatives, BRD Group plans to secure funding through: ● Continuous focus on stable retail deposits. ● Retained earnings reinvestment to support sustainable growth initiatives. ● Strategic partnerships with development banks and international financial institutions. ● Accessing Government programs and incentives related to climate action and energy efficiency. Resilience of the Strategy BRD Group, in collaboration with SG, monitors the resilience of its strategy and business model to material impacts and risks and how to capitalize on material opportunities. Central to the monitoring process is undertaking a ""Business Environment Scan"" (BES), which has been conducted on an annual basis since 2022. The annual BES is undertaken to enable Management to obtain a comprehensive understanding of the material Climate and Environmental (C&E) risks that may impact the organization over a range of time horizons from the short- to long-term. The BES process helps BRD Group identify: • Threats to the business model that arise from Climate Change and Environmental risks. • Business opportunities from the economic transformation, client transitions, and adaptive measures to mitigate climate - related physical risks. BRD Group undertakes the BES to obtain a high-level understanding of vulnerabilities, potential threats, and opportunities that may impact its business over the short- to long- term time horizons. Using these insights, BRD Group then undertakes further analysis 26 ESG financial product, namely a product designed in accordance with ESG Regulatory requirements and BRD Group’s commitments"
"106 SBM 3- 18 SBM 3- 19 - Assessing the carbon intensity of its financed sectors and developing strategies to align them with NZBA commitments. - Collaborating with SG on sector-specific origination guidelines for high-emission industries. - Conducting internal capacity-building initiatives and investing in digital tools to enhance ESG data management and reporting capabilities. To conclude, BRD Group remains committed to adopting a robust transition plan by 2027 report publication. The focus in the next two years will be on: - Continuing engagement with SG to ensure alignment with its transition strategy. - Strengthening partnerships with clients and stakeholders to support their transition journeys and gradually increasing the share of sustainable finance in the overall portfolio. - Designing and implementing internal governance frameworks to oversee the development and implementation of the transition plan. Climate-related Risks BRD Group has identified different material climate-related risks that encompass both physical risks and transition risks, reflecting the multifaceted challenges posed by climate change. For climate change adaptation, the risks are primarily climate-related physical risks, as detailed in the previous Chapter General Disclosures, Section Double Materiality Assessment Process. For climate change mitigation, the risks are primarily climate-related transition risks. These arise from the challenges of aligning with stricter environmental commitments, market evolution towards sustainability and regulatory developments, as detailed in the previous Chapter General Disclosures, Section Double Materiality Assessment Process. BRD Group’s Strategy Resilience to Climate Change BRD Group recognizes the importance of assessing the resilience of its strategy and business model in relation to climate change. While BRD Group does not currently perform a formal climate scenario analysis or stress test to evaluate the impact of climate change on its strategy, it conducts multiple recurring assessments to identify material climate-related risks and their potential effects. The DMA, conducted annually, provides insights into both physical and transition risks. Additionally, the BES exercise, performed annually, examines climate-related impacts on BRD’s key business segments, including Corporate, Retail, Sovereign Bonds, BRD Asset Management and BRD Sogelease. BRD Group also conducts an annual portfolio assessment of small enterprises with a turnover below 7.5 million EUR to evaluate their exposure to climate-related risks. Furthermore, the Industry Climate Vulnerability Indicators (ICVI) and Corporate Climate Vulnerability Indicators (CCVI) offer insights into transition risks by assessing sectoral vulnerabilities and corporate adaptation strategies. These analyses highlight key physical risks, such as disruptions caused by extreme weather events in industries like agriculture and construction, and transition risks, including regulatory changes, increased operational costs, and shifting market demands for sustainable products. For further information"
"145 The below restatements were applied to the EU Taxonomy disclosure for financial year ended 31 December 2023: • In the FY23 report, consumer loans granted to households were categorized under ""Other assets."" This classification was adjusted by reclassifying these loans from ""Other assets"" (row 47) to ""Households"" (row 24) in the FY23 report to achieve comparability with FY24 figures; • Asset categories such as tangible, intangible, tax assets, other assets, and non-current assets held for sale were originally presented at their gross amount in FY23 reporting; these have been restated to reflect their carrying amount (net) to achieve comparability with FY24 figures. • Financial guarantees restated to include only exposures towards undertakings subject to NFRD (and thus exclude exposures towards undertakings not subject to NFRD requirements); • Derivatives have been removed from the denominator of the Green Asset Ratio (GAR) and reclassified as ""Assets not covered for GAR calculation."" • In FY23 reporting, the scope for the eligibility assessment for exposures towards NFU (for unknown use of proceeds) was assessed based on the nature of economic activity on criteria listed in the Climate Delegated Act - Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139. This additional filter has been removed for FY24 reporting (and restated for FY23) as it is not applicable for exposures with unknown use of proceeds. • FY 2024 eligibility of BRD Group’s mortgage loan portfolio was reassessed to include the entire portfolio, compared to the FY 2023 report, where only a portion of the portfolio was included, namely the portion that met the Significant Contribution technical criterion; • For the purposes of FY 2024 reporting, BRD Group adopted a more conservative approach and assessed its mortgage loan portfolio as not aligned, as described above in the section “Data limitations”. The amounts reported as aligned for the mortgage portfolio on FY23 reporting were restated to zero."
"146 8.3 Social information Own workforce This chapter includes details on the identified impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) related to Own Workrforce, as well as the corresponding policies, actions and targets. Furthermore, BRD Group’s progress and the result of the policies, measures and targets is also presented. The information reported under this chapter refers to all employees and non-employees that could be influenced by BRD Group activities. Strategy S1-SBM 3-13 a S1-SBM 3-13 b S1-SBM- 3-16 The business strategy of BRD Group includes a pillar dedicated to People Ambition, confirming the strategic role of the human capital in the overall development of the Group. In the context of permanent transformations in a dynamic environment, BRD Group’s employees are crucial for achieving the strategic objectives, sustainable development and ensuring the quality of products and services offered to customers. An efficient business model transformation needs to be accompanied by a strong foundation represented by an optimal organizational set-up, a good working environment, a powerful corporate culture and strong employee commitment. In this regard, BRD Group takes responsibility for creating a proper work environment by providing its employees development opportunities. To identify and assess actual and potential impacts on our workforce, BRD Group has established processes aligned with ESRS 2 IRO-1. These processes include systematic engagement with employees, analysis of workforce-related risks, and the integration of workforce insights into decision-making frameworks. The outcomes of this approach ensure that BRD Group can proactively identify areas of concern, anticipate potential challenges and address workforce impacts effectively. Impacts Related to Own Workforce The positive and negative impacts identified through the DMA—such as adequate wages, collective bargaining, health and safety, gender equality, and training—are directly connected to BRD Group’s strategy and business model, and they directly impact all employees. For instance, the commitment to offering fair and competitive wages contributes to employee well-being and retention, ensuring a stable and motivated workforce that supports business continuity. Similarly, BRD Group’s respect for freedom of association and collective bargaining enhances employee participation, fostering a collaborative workplace culture that strengthens organizational resilience. The BRD Group’s health and safety initiatives are embedded in business operations, ensuring a secure work environment that minimizes risks and enhances productivity. Training and skills development programs, such as ""The Rise Up Journey"" leadership initiative, support continuous learning and career growth, equipping employees with the competencies needed to drive innovation and customer-centric solutions. In the context of gender equality, the impact manifests principally through pay gaps between employees based on gender. While BRD Group remains committed to its Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) programs, addressing these challenges is essential to reinforcing its commitment to an inclusive workplace."
"147 S1-SBM 3-14 c S1-SBM 3-13 b These identified impacts contribute to the ongoing adaptation of BRD Group’s strategy and business model through: - Policy Development: Feedback mechanisms, including employee surveys like the annual SG Barometer, provide valuable insights into workforce concerns and areas for improvement. These insights are used to refine policies and practices, targeting alignment with employee needs and expectations. - Leadership and Training Initiatives: Programs such as “The Rise Up Journey” for leadership development are tailored to address identified workforce impacts, supporting a culture of continuous improvement and resilience. - Flexibility and Accessibility: The assessment of potential impacts on diverse workforce groups, including vulnerable populations, drives enhancements in workplace accessibility, flexible work arrangements and initiatives to promote well-being. Activities Resulting in Positive Impacts BRD Group carries out a wide range of activities that result in material positive impacts on its workforce, aligned with its commitment to promoting a safe and equitable work environment. These efforts positively affect both employees and non-employees (please see the above categories). The development of the employees’ competences is one of the important Human Resources strategic goals. The training activities offered to the employees are meant to develop their knowledge, improve their overall performance and support reskilling by developing competences through forging a culture of feedback. These initiatives empower employees and boost their confidence, enabling them to perform more effectively and leading to increased job satisfaction and career advancement opportunities. Additionally, the focus on reskilling prepares employees to adapt to evolving business needs, particularly in dynamic areas such as digital transformation, ensuring they remain competitive and valuable in the workforce. The culture of feedback embedded in the training process, promotes open communication, mutual respect, and continuous personal and professional growth, contributing to a supportive and inclusive work environment. To strengthen the benefits of training activities, BRD Group has developed a training strategy focused on developing commercial, technical, managerial and regulatory skills, including risk management and compliance, for its employees. The diverse training options address the needs of staff at various levels (juniors, seniors, experts / specialists), through a mix of theoretical and experiential learning. This approach involves participants directly in selecting their training activities and identifying their needs in collaboration with their managers. Each year, the Training Plan is built based on the strategy of the Bank and considering the needs and priorities set by each pole of activity regarding the competencies necessary to be developed in the specific areas of activity under the Strategic Workforce Planning. The Training plan supports the up-skilling and re-skilling of employees, to better answer to business requests, while respecting the legal and regulatory professional requirements and certification for certain functions. Risks Related to Own Workforce"
"148 S1-SBM- 14 d S1-SBM 3-16 The rising stress levels across Europe, driven by economic pressures and demanding work environments, pose a growing risk to employee wellbeing and organizational performance. Unmanaged stress could lead to higher turnover rates, impacting health, safety and overall productivity. The annual employee Barometer deployed all over SG Group entities revealed rather high level of stress of employees and a decrease of the employees’ satisfaction on work life balance, including in BRD Group. This was considered a focus of attention to be looked into in order to improve the indicators, prevent the stress, burnout and a socio- psychological risks, and increase the emotional safety and wellbeing at work. To address these essential challenges and to foster a healthy workplace and ensuring long-term success ""MIND BRD - well-being and stress prevention"" program was implemented in collaboration with Private Health Network Regina Maria facilitating meetings with experienced psychologist and in the field of emotional health. Additionally, the program includes a dedicated helpline for psychological support and counselling, available 24/7. During the DMA, a key risk identified relates to training and skills development. Specifically, inadequate training and education processes may leave employees without the essential skills and knowledge to perform their roles effectively. This could result in reduced productivity, stifled innovation and negative financial performance. This risk is particularly acute in the context of the digitalization of banking services, where evolving technologies demand new skill sets. The lack of comprehensive training and education programs can result in employees not acquiring the necessary skills and knowledge to execute their responsibilities effectively. This gap can lead to a decline in productivity, hinder innovation and ultimately affect financial performance. The situation is particularly pressing as BRD Group progresses with its digitalization efforts, where the need for advanced, up-to-date skills is crucial to staying competitive and ensuring operational efficiency in an increasingly technology-driven landscape. The Group’s People Ambition pillar directly addresses this material risk through strategic initiatives designed to ensure the workforce remains skilled, adaptable, and committed. Key components of this relationship include: - Alignment with Strategic Objectives: The BRD Group’s digital transformation and innovation strategies depend on a workforce equipped with the requisite skills to drive these changes. Addressing training gaps ensures alignment between human resource capabilities and broader business goals. - People development through reinforcing the feedback, learning and internal mobility, and in the same time developing and retaining our talents and detecting the next generation leaders. To manage the identified risk, BRD Group integrates workforce training and development into its business model through: - Comprehensive Training Programs: implementation of an annual training plan focused on the continuous development of our employees' skills, such as in digital technologies, data management, but also technical banking and operational skills and other key areas. The plan includes certifications that ensure employees acquire the necessary competencies to perform their roles effectively. - Performance Metrics: Workforce capabilities and training effectiveness are monitored and linked to key performance indicators (KPIs) to ensure alignment with strategic objectives. - Long-term Investments in Human Capital: By prioritizing continuous learning, BRD Group strengthens its foundation for sustainable growth and enhances its ability to adapt to an evolving industry landscape. Continuous learning remains our HR primary focus,"
"149 S1-SBM 3-14 e S1-SBM 3-14 f, g S1-SBM 3-15 through a still increasing role of HR Business Partners (HRBPs), with the support of HR experts and contribution of managers in people development. At the same time we forge a culture of self-development where the employee is the first actor of his/her career path and learning journey. We promote self-development by making training more attractive (hybrid, videos / digital learning, tutorials, technical mentoring, reverse mentoring) and by continuing to develop leadership skills and help our managers to be more empowered on their HR role. Continuous learning is enhanced by the internal mobility as well, by giving priority to internal candidates and supporting them with upskilling and reskilling actions, where necessary. Green Transition Impact on Own Workforce Although the transition does not have a direct impact on BRD Group’s own workforce, BRD Group is preoccupied with the potential effects. To ensure good planning and alignment with international agreements on carbon emission reductions BRD Group implemented the ESG Academy, with the purpose to equip the staff with the knowledge and skills enabling contribution to the sustainability business objectives. The learning journey continued in 2024 on both awareness and expertise with courses designed to enhance BRD Group’s understanding and application of ESG practices. In ESG Academy, a series of five courses in the format of short e-learning designed as a fundamental level was allocated to all SG staff, including BRD Group. Depending on the specific of activity and on the expertise level, other courses are designed and delivered to specific target population. The awareness workshops “Climate Fresk”, started in 2022, were continued during 2023 and 2024. The primary aim of the Climate Fresk workshops is to enhance participants' understanding of climate change and its implications, by equipping employees with the knowledge and tools to develop actionable ideas. This program empowers both individuals and organizations to actively contribute to mitigating the adverse effects of climate change. Over 2,000 employees participated to this training, showing their high level of implication and placing BRD at the top of the SG Group in terms of participation rate. Operation at Risk of Incidents of Forced Labour or Compulsory labour, and Child Labour BRD Group has no such operations and is committed to maintaining high ethical standards and compliance with national laws regarding forced labour and child labour. BRD Group has established strict internal policies that prohibit any form of forced labour or child labour within its own workforce. These policies are regularly reviewed to ensure alignment with current legal requirements. BRD Group provides a fair, safe, and respectful work environment for all employees and actively monitors and enforces these policies to prevent any violations. Considering its business model, BRD Group didn’t identify operations at significant risk of incidents of forced labour or compulsory labour, and child labour. Categories of Vulnerable People BRD Group identifies categories of vulnerable people and, through the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion program, has established a targeted action plan to address these categories. The main priorities include: a) accessibility of people with disabilities, b) gender related issues, c) LGBTQ+ rights, d) ethnical background and diverse socio-economic origins and e) generational differences."
"170 S1 17- 103 other employees (excluding the highest- paid individual) Note to data related to “Remuneration metrics” For the 2024 pay gap and remuneration ratio, the variable remuneration based on 2023 performance (granted in 2024) was used in the calculation. BRD Group monitors every year the pay gap between men and women and its evolution over time and implements corrective measures, if necessary. However, there is still a gender pay gap at BRD Group level reflecting a negative impact on gender equal pay. Currently, the number of women within BRD Group exceeds the number of men, particularly within BRD. However, the recruitment process remains fair and strictly focused on candidates' skills and qualifications for the respective roles. To ensure fairness in relation to the pay-out of workers returning from parental leave/maternity, a systematic review of the pay level is carried out on return to work in order to prevent possible pay gaps between women and men. BRD Group monitors every year the pay gap between men and women and its evolution over time and implements corrective measures, if necessary. For the 2024 pay gap and remuneration ratio, the variable remuneration based on 2023 performance (granted in 2024) was used in the calculation. Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts In 2024, BRD received a total of 11 discrimination/harassment alerts through dedicated channels as following: 1. 4 alerts on the whistleblowing channels from SG or BRD 2. 7 alerts on other internal channels within the Bank, which were directed to HR. Of the 11 alerts received in total, 1 alert was confirmed and a plan of measures was established, while 1 alert is currently being processed. There were no fines, penalties or compensation for damages as a result of complaints for discrimination/harassment in the reporting period. In addition, no severe human rights incidents connected to the BRD Group workforce have occurred in the reporting period."
"171 Consumers and end-users This chapter includes details on the identified impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) related to Consumers and end-users, as well as the corresponding policies, actions and targets. Furthermore, the BRD Group’s overview on the policies, measures and targets is also presented. Strategy S4-SBM-3- 9-a, b S4-SBM-3- 10 a, c, d S4-SBM-3- 12 Interaction of Material IROs with BRD Group Strategy BRD Group's strategy and business model contribute positively to enhance financial inclusion and access to essential financial services, aligning with its commitment to responsible banking and sustainable economic development. Serving a diverse consumer base – including individuals, professionals, SMEs, large corporations, and institutional investors – BRD Group engages in sustainable finance initiatives that support renewable energy projects, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, protect the environment, create green jobs, and improve livelihoods in local communities. These efforts are embedded within the BRD Group’s lending and investment strategies, ensuring that customers benefit from responsible financial solutions while contributing to long-term environmental and social sustainability. The Bank plays a key role in facilitating access to financing for first-time homebuyers, students, and SMEs through tailored programs such as the Prima Casa state-guaranteed mortgage program, Study Loans, and European Investment Bank-backed SMEs financing solutions, fostering social mobility and financial resilience. Additionally, BRD’s sustainability-related lending campaigns, such as Expresso Green and Habitat Green, encourage environmentally responsible financial decisions, while sustainability-linked loans address both environmental and social challenges. Additionally, BRD prioritizes inclusivity by adapting its infrastructure, procedures, and technologies to ensure that all individuals, including vulnerable groups, can easily access its products and services. At the same time, BRD Group assesses material risks and opportunities through double materiality analysis, ensuring its strategy remains resilient against emerging challenges. A key material risk identified pertains to access to quality financial information, impacting all BRD Group clients. The complexity of financial products can lead to misinterpretation, emphasizing the importance of clear communication, transparent product disclosures, and financial literacy programs to protect consumers from financial vulnerability. Ethical marketing strategies and responsible lending practices are also fundamental to ensuring that financial offerings are presented transparently, particularly for financially vulnerable individuals. Furthermore, ensuring transparency in product offerings and compliance reporting is essential to mitigating risks related to unclear financial information, which could otherwise lead to customer dissatisfaction, regulatory scrutiny, and reputational damage. The reliance on clear and quality financial information is interwoven with BRD’s strategy, as ambiguity in policy terms, product details, and sales practices poses significant risks, including potential legal disputes and customer disengagement, which could impact market competitiveness. To address these risks, BRD emphasizes transparent communication, consumer financial"
