"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 95 Introduction This sustainability report represents the Group Sustainability Re- port, which was prepared to meet the requirements of Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European Parliament and of the Council of December 14, 2022 (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, CSRD) and in full application of the European Sustainability Report- ing Standards (ESRS). This sustainability report also contains the combined non-financial statement in accordance with Sections 289b to 289e and 315b to 315c of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch – HGB) for the Continental Group and Conti- nental AG, for fiscal 2024. This sustainability report contains the information to be disclosed for fiscal 2024 in accordance with Art. 8 of EU Taxonomy Regula- tion (EU) 2020/852 in conjunction with Art. 10 (2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 of the Commission. This sustainability report was subject to a limited assurance by the independent auditor. The auditor’s report of the sustainability report can be found on page 220 ff. of this annual report. Combined Non-Financial Statement Due to the legal uncertainties arising from the lack of implementa- tion of the CSRD into German law at the time of reporting, the Ex- ecutive Board of Continental AG, in coordination with the Supervi- sory Board, has decided to fully apply, for the first time, the ESRS resulting from the CSRD as a framework in accordance with Sec- tion 315c (3) in conjunction with Section 289d HGB for preparing the combined non-financial statement in accordance with Sections 315b and 315c in conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB. The information for Continental AG pursuant to Sections 289b to 289e HGB is thus also fulfilled. For Continental AG as the parent company of the Continental Group, no separate framework in ac- cordance with Section 289d HGB was used, as the approaches, re- sults, targets, performance indicators and risks reported for the Continental Group also apply equally to the parent company. There- fore, no further information beyond that reported for the Continental Group is required. Accordingly, Continental does not consider the use of a framework for the parent company to be useful. Continental points out general uncertainties with regard to interpre- tation issues in the use of the ESRS as a framework for non-finan- cial statements. The following information refers to the respective sections and sub- sections of the sustainability report and the management report in general, in which the information for the combined non-financial statement as required by HGB can be found. A description of the Continental Group’s business models can be found in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section of this sustaina- bility report in the subsection Strategy, business model and value chain and in the Corporate profile section of the management re- port under Structure of the Continental Group. Environmental matters The approaches pursued by Continental with regard to environ- mental matters are described in the management approaches as follows: › Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, Scope 3 emissions, portfolio re- silience and transition, Climate change adaptation, Supply chain resilience and transition in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section, › Environmental protection in own operations, Environmental pro- tection in the supply chain, Product-related aspects regarding en- vironmental protection and Substances of concern and very high concern in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section, › Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain and Down- stream value chain in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section, and › Circularity and waste in own operations in the Resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5) section. The results of the approaches pursued in relation to environmental matters are described as part of the impacts, risks and opportuni- ties as well as the metrics in the sections on Climate change (ESRS E1), Pollution (ESRS E2), Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) and Resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5). Employee matters The approaches pursued by Continental with regard to employee matters are described in the management approaches as follows: › Labor standards, Adequate wages, Work-life balance, Training and skill development, Secure employment and social dialogue, Em- ployee privacy and Occupational safety and health in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section, and › Workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section. Sustainability Report"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 96 The results of the approaches pursued in relation to employee mat- ters are described as part of the impacts, risks and opportunities as well as the metrics in the sections Own workforce (ESRS S1) and Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2). Social matters The approaches pursued by Continental with regard to social mat- ters are described in the management approaches as follows: › Affected communities in the Affected communities (ESRS S3) sec- tion, and › Technical and product compliance and Safe mobility in the Con- sumers and end-users (ESRS S4) section. The results of the approaches pursued in relation to social matters are described as part of the impacts, risks and opportunities as well as the metrics in the sections Affected communities (ESRS S3) and Consumers and end-users (ESRS S4). Respect for human rights The approaches pursued by Continental with regard to respect for human rights are reflected in the management approaches as fol- lows: › Labor standards, Adequate wages, Work-life balance, Training and skill development, Secure employment and social dialogue, Em- ployee privacy and Occupational safety and health in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section, › Workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section and Affected communities in the Affected com- munities (ESRS S3) section, and › Technical and product compliance and Safe mobility in the Con- sumers and end-users (ESRS S4) section. The results of the approaches pursued with regard to respect for human rights are described as part of the impacts, risks and oppor- tunities as well as metrics in the sections Own workforce (ESRS S1), Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2), Affected communities (ESRS S3) and Consumers and end-users (ESRS S4). Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters The approach pursued by Continental with regard to anti-corrup- tion and anti-bribery matters is described in the management ap- proaches in the Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) section. The results of the approach pursued with regard to anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters are described as part of the impacts and risks as well as metrics in the Business conduct and corporate gov- ernance (ESRS G1) section. Material risks For a description of non-financial risks and how they are managed, please refer to the Risks and Opportunities report in this manage- ment report. Beyond this scope, no additional non-financial risks were identified in accordance with Section 289c (3) HGB. The risks and opportunities described in the topic-related sections of the sus- tainability report are based on the application of the ESRS frame- work and the definition of double materiality anchored therein, and therefore explicitly go beyond the definition in the HGB. Performance indicators Non-financial and sustainability-related performance indicators in accordance with HGB are defined as part of the key performance criteria in the remuneration system in the Corporate profile section of the management report under Sustainability management. These do not constitute the most significant non-financial perfor- mance indicators within the meaning of Section 289c (3) HGB. The most significant key performance indicators for the Continental Group consist exclusively of financial indicators, and can be found in the Corporate management and Outlook for the Continental Group sections of this management report. Correlations with the consolidated financial statement Where necessary for an understanding of the context, reference is made in this sustainability report to the figures and additional ex- planations provided in the consolidated financial statements."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 97 Notes on Applying the ESRS General basis for preparation of the sustainability report This report was prepared in accordance with the European Sustain- ability Reporting Standards (ESRS). For the preparation of this report and based on the set of required formal and content requirements, subject matter experts were iden- tified for quantitative disclosures and qualitative disclosures. The content of the sustainability report was prepared by the relevant subject matter experts and then consolidated and reviewed by the Group Sustainability group function. The report was formally ap- proved as part of the overall financial reporting process. Opera- tional supervision is exercised by the Sustainability Steering Com- mittee, of which also the Executive Board of the Continental Group is a member. Sustainability reporting also falls under the supervi- sion of the Supervisory Board. Further information on supervision can be found in the subsection Consideration of sustainability mat- ters in corporate supervision. The reported metrics are based on specific definitions, assump- tions, and calculations methods. These are presented directly in conjunction with the respective metrics, if relevant. In this regard, it should be noted that especially modelled metrics are subject to un- certainty. The statement in accordance with ESRS 2.77 that metrics are not subject to validation by an external body other than the independ- ent auditor has not been repeated for each individual metric, as this applies to every metric. When applying the ESRS, the terminology of the ESRS is used as a general rule while also taking into account terminology compre- hensibility and consistency within the management report as well as any existing and potential further adjustments to the ESRS. For example, the terms used include management approach instead of policy, and key actions for target achievement instead of actions and resources as well as Business Conduct and Corporate Govern- ance instead of only Business Conduct (as section headline). Continental furthermore points out some general uncertainties with regard to the first time application of the ESRS. Scope of Consolidation The sustainability report has been created on a consolidated basis for the entire Continental Group. In principle, Continental applies the same scope of consolidation for this report as for the consolidated financial statements. This sus- tainability report therefore covers Continental AG and all its subsidi- aries (collectively referred to as Continental or the Continental Group). All disclosures in this report relate to the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31, 2024. Where relevant, information up until the ac- tual publication of this report has been considered. An overview of the relevant data points that derive from other Eu- ropean legislation and where they can be found in this sustainabil- ity report has been included in the Overviews and indexes in ac- cordance with ESRS 2 section. Upstream and downstream value chain Continental’s upstream and downstream value chains have been in- cluded in the preparation of the sustainability report and the as- sessment of impacts, risks and opportunities. This includes in par- ticular the consideration of supply chains (see for example impact 18) or the product use phase (see for example 19). The impacts, risks and opportunities material for Continental that follow the ma- teriality analysis in relation to the value chain are presented in the Details of the material impacts, risks and opportunities subsection and described in the topic-related subsections, including the re- spective management approaches. Omissions Continental has not omitted a specific piece of information relating to intellectual property, know-how or the results of innovation. Continental has not made use of the exemption provided for in Ar- ticle 19a (3) and Article 29a (3) of Directive 2013/34/EU and Sec- tion 289e HGB for the disclosure of imminent developments or matters under negotiation. Disclosures due to other legislation on sustainability reporting This sustainability report constitutes, at the same time, the com- bined non-financial statement in accordance with Sections 289b to 289e and 315b and 315c in conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB, for the Continental Group and Continental AG, for fiscal 2024. Relevant information that goes beyond the ESRS disclosures can be found the section Combined non-financial statement at the beginning of this sustainability report. General Disclosures (ESRS 2)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 98 Overview of Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Continental has identified and assessed the material actual and po- tential negative and positive impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO). The detailed results are described in the Details of material impacts, risks and opportunities subsection as well as in the respective topic- related subsections. The methodology of the assessment is further described in the Process for identifying and assessing material IRO subsection. The integration of impacts, risks and opportunities into the strategy and the business model is carried out in accordance with the con- trol processes and management approaches described in the Governance subsection of this section and in the respective topic- related sections."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 100 The assessments in the workshops also took the following into ac- count: › Dependencies on the availability of natural, human, and social re- sources at appropriate prices and in adequate quality, independ- ent of the potential impacts on those resources › A primarily relevant time horizon for the definition of IRO scenar- ios and potential consequences › Sectors and/or geographical locations where relevant › External studies and other scientific evidence › External data (e.g. country risk analyses and industry risk anal- yses) › Specific data for Continental or Continental’s value chain (e.g. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions) Consolidation In an iterative approach based on the assessments during the workshops, an initial consolidation has been prepared by Group Sustainability in close coordination with Group Risk Management. The consolidation was completed especially based on the out- comes of all individual workshops as well as cross-checks with Continental’s general risk assessment. The materiality threshold has been set after the consolidation of IRO assessments. The materiality of negative impacts and risks was assessed based on the gross perspective to consider where it is rel- evant to have adequate management approaches and report on them. The materiality of positive impacts as well as of opportunities was assessed based on the net perspective to consider where ex- isting management approaches can contribute to these impacts and opportunities. From an overarching perspective, the materiality threshold for the gross assessment of the severity of negative im- pacts and risks and for the net assessment of the magnitude of the effect of positive impacts and opportunities was set at high and very high ratings (see the scales used under Impact materiality and financial materiality). Regarding the likelihood of occurrence, no threshold was applied. In cases where an IRO was flagged as a fo- cus topic for the relevant users of Continental’s sustainability infor- mation, this IRO has also been evaluated as material and included in the reporting. Revalidation and formal confirmation As part of the iterative approach and until finalization of the report, the assessment was validated and updated where required, based on relevant new knowledge or relevant new developments and events. The re-validated assessment was formally confirmed by Continental’s Sustainability Steering Committee. In conclusion, Continental has identified more than 150 IROs and evaluated 75 as material. More details on the individual material IROs can be found under the individual topic-related sections in the Material impacts, risks and opportunities subsections. In the IRO assessment, Continental incorporated a set of methodolo- gies and assumptions that reflect both current and projected devel- opments on the basis of profound expert judgment. The main as- sumptions on which the IRO assessment was based are as follows: › Continental assumed that environmental factors and social influ- ence will have a general growing impact on business activities, supply chains, and market conditions regarding for example the future availability of resources, the environmental transition and socio-economic trends. › The financial assessment is based on assumptions regarding fu- ture regulatory developments, market trends and technological advancements, among other things. The likely consequences of these regulatory changes were taken into account. Moreover, Continental assumes that technology will continue to advance and support sustainability initiatives. This includes assumptions about the development and introduction of green technologies. › The assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities related to Continental’s value chain takes into account, in particular, the spe- cific features of the respective geographical regions, industries, business activities and types of operation. Continental’s due diligence processes play a key role in identifying, assessing, and managing impacts, risks and opportunities. They are part of the management processes described in this section under Governance as well as in the management approaches in the topic- related sections. The assessment of impacts regarding human rights is supported by the due diligence processes of Continental’s Responsible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS), e.g. re- garding actual impacts by incidents or the assessment of potential negative impacts (see especially the topic-related Own workforce (ESRS S1) section and Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). Where specific activities, business relationships, geographical loca- tions or other factors lead to a higher assessment of the impacts, this was essentially taken into account in the description and as- sessment of the IROs. Through the holistic approach of the IRO assessment, the impacts have been assessed within Continental’s own operations and in the upstream and/or downstream value chain. The relevant stage of the value chain is described in the respective impacts, risks and op- portunities. As described in the methodology, affected stakeholders were in- volved in the assessment process by subject matters experts who acted as internal proxies. The stakeholders’ views are incorporated into the respective management approaches as described in the topic-related sections and thus also contribute to the evaluations by the subject matter experts who were involved in the assessment of the IROs."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 101 Impact materiality The impact materiality is based on the severity or magnitude of the effect of the impact. In the case of potential impacts, the probability was also assessed, but not taken into account in the evaluation of materiality. A five-point scale from “very low” to “very high” was used for both aspects. The assessment of the severity or magnitude of the effect is based on the following factors: › the scale, › the scope, and › for negative impacts, also the irremediable character of the im- pact. The threshold for material impacts follows the general described methodology for thresholds, as laid out in this subsection under Consolidation. Financial materiality The integrated approach of the IRO assessment allows Continental to assess risks and opportunities together with the topically related impacts in a combined view. Thereby it was possible to consider in- terdependencies between risks and opportunities with impacts. In the topic-related sections, the detailed descriptions of impacts, risks and opportunities are grouped into related IRO clusters (e.g. all IROs on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in one IRO cluster). Also risks and opportunities were assessed according to the level of severity effect and magnitude of financial impacts and the likeli- hood of occurrence in the short-, medium-, or long-term. The finan- cial impacts were assessed using semi-quantitative guidelines that were defined in consultation with Group Risk Management. Five levels from “very low” to “very high” were used as the rating scale. The financial impacts considered include effects on Continental’s fi- nancial position, financial performance, cash flows, access to financ- ing, cost of capital and financial outlook. The threshold for financial materiality follows the general described methodology for thresh- olds, as laid out in this subsection under Consolidation. Group Risk Management was closely involved in all steps of the IRO assessment. Before the results were provisionally confirmed, they were iteratively compared with the company’s risk inventory to en- sure complete consistency. Further details on the alignment are de- scribed in the subsection Integration of IROs in risk management. The Sustainability Steering Committee was involved in milestones of the IRO assessment, acted as a supervisory body and formally confirmed the results. In addition, the Group’s Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) Committee in particular, which manages general risk management, was indirectly involved in the process and was informed in particular about the IRO assessment and the interrela- tions with risk management. Integration of IROs in risk management The IRO assessment has taken into account both the assessments based on the ESRS requirements and the assessments as part of enterprise risk management in accordance with the relevant re- quirements. To this end, the IRO assessment is continuously coordi- nated with general risk management. In view of the major differences in the required methods, con- sistency checks were carried out. The sustainability-related risks compatible with the methodology relevant for enterprise risk man- agement have been aligned with the risks documented in the gen- eral risk assessment reporting system. Impacts not directly related to an identified risk were not considered in the enterprise risk man- agement. Further information on risk management can be found in the man- agement report in the Main characteristics of the risk management system subsection in the subsection on Continental’s internal con- trol and risk management system in the Report on risks and oppor- tunities section. The outcome of the IRO assessment confirmed the topic-related fo- cus of Continental’s Sustainability Ambition anchored in Conti- nental’s strategy. The concrete effects of impacts, risks and oppor- tunities on Continental’s business model, value chain, strategy and decision-making as well as how Continental responds and plans to respond to these effects are addressed in more detail in the de- scriptions of the IROs and management approaches in the respec- tive topic-related section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 102 Stakeholders and Stakeholder Engagement Continental maintains regular, ongoing dialogue with various stake- holders via diverse channels. For Continental, the most important stakeholders with regard to sustainability include in particular: › Employees and their representatives, › Customers, consumers, and end-users, › Capital market participants, › Policymakers, › Affected communities and civil society, › Actors within Continental’s supply chain, and › Users of Continental’s sustainability reporting. Stakeholders are involved via the following channels: › Employees and their representatives: e.g. via works meetings, em- ployee surveys, webcasts, meetings with employee representa- tives and directly via the HR departments, › Customers, consumers and end-users: e.g. via sales departments or key account management, partnerships, trade fairs, surveys and customer service centers, › Capital market participants: e.g. via the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, webcasts and roadshows, › Public policymakers: e.g. via public affairs departments, › Affected communities and civil society: e.g. via engagement pro- jects and open house events, › Actors within Continental's supply chain: e.g. via the purchasing departments and trade fairs, and › Users of sustainability reporting: e.g. via published sustainability reporting. The formats used to involve stakeholders differ depending on the stakeholder group and are organized by the respective functions to suit the individual purpose. For example, employees are involved by the HR departments. The aim of involving the stakeholders is to bring together different perspectives, discuss any discrepancies in views and learn from each other. The results of stakeholder engagement in various formats, along with further analyses and new ideas, are continuously being incor- porated into the process of further developing our sustainability strategy and reporting. In particular, the results of stakeholder en- gagement are taken into account in the decision-making process through the management approaches described in the topic-re- lated sections. In the IRO assessment, an expanded understanding was created for the perspective (including interests and views) of the affected stakeholders as described in the Consideration of stakeholder inter- ests and views subsection. Consideration of stakeholder interests and views In general, the views of stakeholders serve as an information basis for the management approaches that are relevant to sustainability and those that are described in the topic-related sections. At the same time, these management approaches in turn create an infor- mation basis for the overarching strategy processes with regard to stakeholder views. The described management approaches, market requirements, trends and other factors are taken into account as part of the overarching strategy processes. When changing strat- egy, the interests and views of stakeholders are therefore mainly in- cluded indirectly as one of many factors. Continental did not change its strategy or business models on the basis of the IRO assessment. Continental amends the strategy and the business models as part of the annual strategy processes and the continuous strategic dia- logue in all group sectors as well as part of the topic-related man- agement approaches. Continental assumes that any changes to strategy or business model has impacts on the relationship with stakeholders and the stakeholders’ views – no matter whether they are based on sustain- ability-related decision-making or other reasoning. Continuous vali- dation of the views of stakeholders is therefore relevant for the evaluation of impacts, risks and opportunities as well as subse- quent strategic decision-making. Further information on this strat- egy can be found in this management report in the Corporate pro- file section under the subsection Strategy of the Continental Group. The identification of opportunities and, in particular, the identifica- tion of strategic opportunities as part of the IRO assessment was also linked to strategy processes. The views and interests of affected stakeholders with regard to the company’s sustainability-related impacts have been considered in the IRO assessment. The IRO assessment considering these views was discussed in the Sustainability Steering Committee as well as in the Supervisory Board’s Sustainability Working Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 103 Interests and views of stakeholders relating to own workforce The interests, views, and rights of Continentals workforce, including the respect for their human rights, are integral to shaping Conti- nental's strategy and business model. To ensure that their perspec- tives are incorporated into strategic decisions, Continental is in reg- ular contact with employees and their representatives via various channels, such as works councils and co-determination in the Su- pervisory Board. Further information on the involvement of em- ployees and their perspectives in the overall business processes can be found in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section. Furthermore, the inclusion of the own workforce is described in the methodology of the IRO assessment. Interests and views of stakeholders relating to workers in the value chain The interests, views, and rights of workers in Continentals value chain, including the respect for their human rights, inform Conti- nental's related management approaches regarding a responsible value chain. The involvement of the workers in the value chain is also described in more detail in the methodology of the IRO as- sessment. Interests and views of stakeholders relating to affected communities The interests, views, and rights of affected communities, including the respect for their human rights inform Continental's related man- agement approaches regarding a responsible value chain. The in- volvement of the affected communities is also described in more detail in the methodology of the IRO assessment. Interests and views of stakeholders relating to consumers and end-users The interests, views, and rights of consumers and end-users, includ- ing the respect for their human rights, are part of Continental's strat- egy and business model. Where Continental is a supplier, such as for automotive components, the perspective of consumers and end-us- ers is seen as an integral part of the general feedback from custom- ers, such as car manufacturers. Where Continental directly sells end- consumer products, feedback from consumers and end-users and their representatives is gathered through various channels, espe- cially via customer service centers. In addition, Continental’s Mobility Study informs about the perspectives of end-users in major markets. The involvement of consumers and end-users is also described in more detail in the methodology of the IRO assessment."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 104 Identification of the Information to Be Disclosed Based on the IRO Assessment As part of the IRO assessment, Continental has allocated the identi- fied material impacts, risks and opportunities to the corresponding ESRS sustainability matters. This sustainability report only contains information on the sustainability matters respectively topics, sub- topics and sub-sub-topics that have been classified as material, i.e. at least one material impact, material risk or material opportunity has been identified for the respective sustainability matter. The im- plementation guidelines provided by EFRAG were used as an addi- tional source for the allocation of disclosure requirements for sus- tainability matters. The identified material impacts, risks and oppor- tunities with their specific descriptions set the focus within the re- quired disclosures, for example on own operations, the supply chain or specific product groups. The perspective of the primary users of financial reporting and other users of sustainability report- ing was already taken into account in the IRO assessment. Where relevant for the understanding of specifics identified by Continental, adequate and meaningful entity-specific disclosures were added to provide sufficient granularity of information, such as additional metrics used in management processes. The principle of materiality of information was applied in order to calibrate the depth of the information and to omit individual disclo- sures where these are not material for an understanding of the ma- terial impacts, risks and opportunities and for the management ap- proaches described, and are not necessary in order to fulfill the ob- jectives of the corresponding disclosure requirements. In addition, use was made of the simplification of the phase-in dis- closure requirements in accordance with ESRS 1.132. Continental is working on being able to report these phase-in disclosure re- quirements in accordance with the specified time horizons. An overview table of the reported disclosure requirements can be found at the end of the sustainability report in the Overviews and indices in accordance with ESRS 2 section. Details of the Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities The actual and potential negative and positive impacts on people and the environment are described in more detail within the re- spective topic-related sections in the detailed descriptions of the concrete impacts. Many of the impacts identified are inherent to the industry and are directly related to specific types of business, products, value chains or geographical regions. They can therefore be seen as impacts di- rectly linked to Continental’s strategy and business models. Where applicable, this is also addressed in the concrete descriptions of im- pacts within the topic-related section. As described in the methodology of the IRO assessment, Conti- nental used a variety of input parameters to evaluate the IROs, in- cluding both quantitative and qualitative data sources such as met- rics, internal reports, and external market research. Continental has defined the following time intervals for potential impacts, risks and opportunities following the ESRS requirements: › “Short-term” is coherent with the reporting period in the consoli- dated financial statements (up to one year). › “Medium-term” corresponds to a period between the end of the short- period and up to five years. › “Long-term” is defined by a period of more than five years. Continental considers the primary time horizons to be those in which the strongest impacts or effects are to be expected. Depending on the topic, material impacts originate from own oper- ations or from business relationships. This information can be found in the respective topic-related sections in the subsections un- der Material impacts, risks and opportunities and, in general, in this section under the Strategy, business model and value chain sub- section. The current financial effects of the identified material risks and op- portunities relating to sustainability aspects include according to Continental’s view, in particular, provisions for specific risks associ- ated with the identified IROs. In particular, these are provisions for warranties (see risk 70 in the Consumers and end-users (ESRS S4) section), which amounted to a total of €388 million as at Decem- ber 31, 2024. In addition, smaller parts of the provisions for litiga- tion and environmental risks are linked to the risks, but mainly to the impacts from the Pollution (ESRS E2) section. Provisions for liti- gation and environmental risks amounted to €297 million as at De- cember 31, 2024. Provisions for restructuring are only indirectly linked to the identified material risks and opportunities described in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section and therefore, from Conti- nental’s perspective, do not represent current financial effects within the definitions of the ESRS."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 105 Furthermore, no significant current financial effects on the recover- ability of non-financial assets and inventories were identified in con- nection with identified sustainability-related and, in particular, cli- mate-related risks. It should be noted that current financial effects in connection with identified material risks and opportunities relating to sustainability aspects are generally not independent of other associated effects. Further information is provided in the explanations of the relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements, for example in Note 29 relating to warranties. Further information on the fundamental consideration of sustainability-related aspects in accounting are de- scribed in Note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial state- ments, particularly with regard to climate-related aspects in the subsection Impact of the macroeconomic environment and cli- mate-related aspects on accounting in the reporting period. Based on the IRO assessment, taking into account the associated limitations and assumptions as set out in the subsection Process for identifying and assessing material IROs and taking into account the management approaches, targets and key actions for achieving the targets reported in the topic-related sections, Continental con- siders its business model and strategy to be resilient. The manage- ment approaches, targets and key actions for achieving the targets describe Continental’s current ability to reduce its material negative impacts, increase positive impacts, manage risks, and seize oppor- tunities. Continental also assumes that these skills will continue to develop over time. Further information on risk management can be found in the man- agement report under Main characteristics of the risk management system in the subsection on Continental’s internal control and risk management system in the Report on risks and opportunities section. The identified impacts, risks and opportunities relate to at least one sustainability matter as defined by the ESRS. The entity-specific dis- closure only provides additional granularity but does not contain any new sustainability matters beyond the list of sustainability mat- ters in ESRS 1.AR16. The relation between entity-specific disclo- sures and specific impacts, risks and opportunities are included in the description of the respective management approaches which follow the same clustering as the impacts, risks, and opportunities (IRO cluster). As the reporting year 2024 constitutes the first year of reporting on the outcomes of an IRO assessment, there are no outcomes from prior years for comparative analysis. Continental identified 75 IROs that have been evaluated as material according to the IRO assessment methodology applied by Conti- nental. Material IROs have been identified along the supply chain, own operations, and downstream value chain. Given the different focus of topic-related sections, the distribution of the IROs along the value chain differs (e.g. the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section is, by definition, focused specifically on own operations). Each material IRO is described in more detail in the respective sub- sections (Material impacts, risks and opportunities) of the topic-re- lated section in this report, and can be identified with a distinct identifier as shown in the following table."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 106 Continental’s material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO table) ESRS Section ID Short description Type of IRO Primary time horizon E1 Climate change 1 Contribution to Scope 3 emissions backpack Actual negative impact - 2 Contribution to Scope 1 & 2 emissions Actual negative impact - 3 Contribution to Scope 3 emissions use phase Actual negative impact - 4 Support transition to carbon neutrality with components & systems (ZTEV & low carbon industries) in the entire value chain Actual positive impact - 5 Energy consumption from fossil fuels in own operations Actual negative impact - 6 Devaluation of assets due to physical climate change Risk Long-term 7 Supply chain interruptions due to physical climate change effects Risk Long-term 8 Loss of sales in connection with our portfolio and climate change Risk Long-term 9 Higher operating costs/investments related to climate change adaptation Risk Long-term 10 Devaluation of assets due to climate protection regulations Risk Medium-term 11 Higher costs for materials/services related to climate change mitigation Risk Medium-term 12 Higher operating costs/investments related to climate change mitigation Risk Medium-term 13 Higher operating costs/investments related to climate change mitigation (1.5°C scenario) Risk Medium-term 14 Higher costs for materials/services related to climate change mitigation (1.5°C scenario) Risk Medium-term 15 Loss of sales in connection with our portfolio and climate change (1.5°C scenario) Risk Medium-term 16 Growth or new business from climate change regulations Opportunity Medium-term E2 Pollution 17 Spills or other environmental incidents in own operations Potential negative impact Short-term 18 Pollution by supply chain Potential negative impact Short-term 19 Pollution in use phase Actual and potential negative impact Potential impact: Short-term 20 Use of substances of concern within own operations Potential negative impact Short-term 21 Use of substances of concern within supply chain Potential negative impact Short-term 22 Penalties in connection with pollution in the use phase Risk Medium-term 23 Higher costs for materials/services related to pollution Risk Medium-term 24 Loss of sales in connection with our products and pollution Risk Medium-term 25 Loss of sales in connection with our portfolio and substances of concern Risk Medium-term 26 Penalties in connection with substances of concern Risk Medium-term 27 Growth arising from environmental protection related regulations Opportunity Medium-term E4 Biodiversity and ecosys- tems 28 Deforestation in the supply chain Potential negative impact Short-term 29 Impacts on biodiversity in use phase Actual and potential negative impact Potential impact: Short-term 30 Penalties in connection with deforestation Risk Medium-term 31 Higher costs for materials/services related to deforestation Risk Short-term 32 Resilience of own supply chain in relation to biodiversity Opportunity Medium-term E5 Resource use and circular economy 33 Procurement from primary and non-renewable sources Actual negative impact - 34 Contribution to waste by EOL of products Actual negative impact - 35 Landfill or incineration of non-recyclable waste in own operations Actual negative impact - 36 Higher costs for materials/services related to resources Risk Medium-term 37 Loss of sales in connection with our portfolio and circularity Risk Long-term 38 Waste efficiency Opportunity Medium-term"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 123 Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering 2024 Financial year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm) Economic activities Code1 Turn- over Propor- tion of turn- over, 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy- aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) turnover, 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitio- nal acti- vity € millions % EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE-ACTIVITIES A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1.) 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which enabling 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which transitional 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies CCM 3.6 11,986 30.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 29.0 % Manufacture of automotive and mobility components CCM 3.18 22,021 55.4 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 57.5 %. Manufacture of rail constituents CCM 3.19 76 0.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.2 %. Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2.) 34,083 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 86.6 % A. Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1.+A.2.) 34,083 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 86.6 % B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B) 5,635 14.2 % TOTAL (A + B) 39,719 100.0 % The tables listed here are the “templates for KPIs of non-financial undertakings” as required by Annex V of Delegated Regulation 2023/2486 of the EU Commission of June 27, 2023. For the sake of simplicity, Continental uses the following terms synonymously outside of these tables: “economic activities” and “business activities”, “environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)” and “Taxonomy-aligned economic activities”, “Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)” and “Taxonomy-eligible economic activities”. 1 The code constitutes the abbreviation of the relevant objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution, as well as the section number of the activity in the relevant annex covering the objective, i.e. here: climate change mitigation (CCM). 2 EL: Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 124 Proportion of capital expenditure for products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering 2024 Financial year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm) Economic activities Code1 CapEx Propor- tion of CapEx 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy- aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) turnover, 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitio- nal acti- vity € millions % EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1.) 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which enabling 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which transitional 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies CCM 3.6 665 30.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 34.3 % Manufacture of automotive and mobility components CCM 3.18 1,222 55.4 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 53.5 % Manufacture of rail constituents CCM 3.19 4 0.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.1 %. CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2.) 1,892 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 87.9 % A. CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1.+A.2.) 1,892 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 87.9 % B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B) 313 14.2 % TOTAL (A + B) 2,204 100.0 % The tables listed here are the “templates for KPIs of non-financial undertakings” as required by Annex V of Delegated Regulation 2023/2486 of the EU Commission of June 27, 2023. For the sake of simplicity, Continental uses the following terms synonymously outside of these tables: “economic activities” and “business activities”, “environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)” and “Taxonomy-aligned economic activities”, “Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)” and “Taxonomy-eligible economic activities”. 1 The code constitutes the abbreviation of the relevant objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution, as well as the section number of the activity in the relevant annex covering the objective, i.e. here: climate change mitigation (CCM). 2 EL: Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 125 Proportion of operating expenditure for products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering 2024 Financial year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm) Economic activities Code1 OpEx Propor- tion of OpEx 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy- aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) turnover, 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitio- nal acti- vity € millions % EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1.) 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which enabling 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which transitional 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies CCM 3.6 1,203 30.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 19.6 % Manufacture of automotive and mobility components CCM 3.18 2,211 55.4 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 70.8 %. Manufacture of rail constituents CCM 3.19 8 0.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.1 %. OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2.) 3,421 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 90.5 % A. OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1.+A.2.) 3,421 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 90.5 % B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B) 566 14.2 % TOTAL (A + B) 3,987 100.0 % The tables listed here are the “templates for KPIs of non-financial undertakings” as required by Annex V of Delegated Regulation 2023/2486 of the EU Commission of June 27, 2023. For the sake of simplicity, Continental uses the following terms synonymously outside of these tables: “economic activities” and “business activities”, “environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)” and “Taxonomy-aligned economic activities”, “Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)” and “Taxonomy-eligible economic activities”. 1 The code constitutes the abbreviation of the relevant objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution, as well as the section number of the activity in the relevant annex covering the objective, i.e. here: climate change mitigation (CCM). 2 EL: Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 143 GHG emissions intensity Location-based GHG emissions intensity 2024 Intensity of location-based GHG emissions, in million tCO2e / € millions 0.003 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total location-based GHG emissions are divided by the sales revenue presented in the consolidated financial statements. - The calculation of the total GHG emissions is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies set out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Market-based GHG emissions intensity 2024 Intensity of market-based GHG emissions, in million tCO2e / € millions 0.003 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total market-based GHG emissions are divided by the sales revenue presented in the consolidated financial statements. - The calculation of the total GHG emissions is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies lined out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Information on sales (denominator in the calculation of the intensity of GHG emissions) can be found in the consolidated financial state- ments in the Consolidated statement of income section and in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix 2024 (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products, in MWh 82,476 (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products, in MWh 129,421 (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas, in MWh 2,840,436 (4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources, in MWh 61,634 (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources, in MWh 754,333 (6) Total energy consumption from fossil sources, in MWh 3,868,301 (7) Total energy consumption from nuclear sources, in MWh 0 (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources, in MWh 110,068 (9) Energy consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from renewable sources, in MWh 4,219,044 (10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy, in MWh 26,652 (11) Total energy consumption from renewable sources, in MWh 4,355,765 (12) Total energy consumption, in MWh 8,224,066 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Overarching information for positions (1) – (12) - If required, conversion factors are used to convert fuel consumption into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual company locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. - In addition, the December consumption is calculated for individual locations if the necessary data or receipts were not yet available at the time of reporting. (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products - Includes the consumption of coal and lignite (brown coal). (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products - Includes the consumption of diesel, gasoil, gasoline and heating oil. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas - Includes the consumption of natural gas. (4) Consumption of fuels from other fossil sources - Includes the consumption of liquified petroleum gas (LPG), propane and liquid butane. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources - Includes the consumption of purchased district heat and steam from fossil sources. - Energy sources are allocated using the market-based method. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (6) Total energy consumption from fossil sources - Total of positions (1) to (5). (7) Total energy consumption from nuclear sources - Includes energy consumption from nuclear sources. - The energy source is allocated using the market-based method. (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources - Includes the consumption of biomass, biofuels, biomethane and green hydrogen. (9) Energy consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from renewable sources - Contains the purchased electricity mix, electricity from renewable sources with energy attribute certificates (off-site PPA, on-site PPA, green tariff), purchased steam and district heat from renewable sources. - The calculation is made using the market-based method. (10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy - Includes the consumption of self-generated electricity from renewable sources. (11) Total energy consumption from renewable sources - Total of positions (8) to (10). (12) Total energy consumption - Calculated as the total of positions (6), (7) and (11)."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 144 Coverage of energy management systems 2024 Energy management system certification (ISO 50001) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 42 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications were considered, as well as ongoing recertifications, if the achievement of recertification is considered highly probable. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are excluded from the coverage rate. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own employees working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific. Non-renewable energy production 2024 Non-renewable energy production, in MWh 2,760,454 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the generation of steam from non-renewable sources in boiler houses as well as self-generated electricity from fossil sources. - The amount of steam produced in boiler houses is calculated based on the total consumption of natural gas at the respective location minus the direct combustion of natural gas based on annual average values. - If required, conversion factors are used to convert energy production into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Renewable energy production 2024 Renewable energy production, in MWh 26,652 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the production of electricity from renewable sources such as photovoltaics. - If required, conversion factors are used to convert energy production into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual locations. Disclosures relating to activities in high climate impact sectors Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors, in MWh / € millions 214 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is defined as the total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors divided by the sales from activities in high climate impact sectors. - Data on energy consumption is collected in accordance with the information in the table on energy consumption and energy mix. Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors, in MWh 8,144,095 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Activities in the NACE code sectors A to H and L that generate sales are considered activities in high climate impact sectors. - Includes total energy consumption from fossil and renewable sources attributable to activities in high climate impact sectors. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors, in € millions 38,053 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The sales presented in the consolidated financial statements are shown minus the sales from non-climate-intensive activities. Activities in the NACE code sectors A to H and L that result in sales are considered to be activities in high climate impact sectors, and are used for the calculation. Information on sales (denominator in the calculation of the intensity of GHG emissions) can be found in the consolidated financial state- ments in the Consolidated statement of income section and in Note 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 151 Responsibility for the implementation of the management ap- proach for substances of concern lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The governance framework for the management of hazardous substances is defined in particu- lar by the departments for environment, safety and health as well as product development, overseen by the Executive Board of Conti- nental AG and the group sector boards. The processes for monitoring the management of hazardous sub- stances are integrated into the overall environmental and occupa- tional health & safety management system as described in the management approaches to Environmental protection in own oper- ations in this section as well as Occupational safety and health in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section. Preventive measures for sub- stances of concern are implemented site-specifically and include the identification of hazardous substances, maintenance of hazard- ous substance inventories and ensuring the safe usage and storage of chemicals. Continental’s processes for substances of concern also include some upstream and downstream value chain aspects, e.g. with re- gard to integration into general procurement processes, approval of use and restrictions of use of substances which are procured, product and process development as well as placing compliant and safe products on the markets (see also the management approach to Technical and product compliance in the Consumers and end- users (ESRS S4) section). The implementation of these rules is regu- larly reviewed, for example within internal ESH-audits. The framework for Continental’s management regarding sub- stances of concern consists of a set of environmental, occupational health & safety rules at different levels of the organization as well as the sustainability ambition, ESH policy and the corresponding RVC commitments. The environmental, occupational health & safety management sys- tems are based on the international standards ISO 14001 and ISO 45001, which are also standards for the management of hazard- ous substances. Furthermore, Continental follows the Minamata Convention on Mercury, the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) as well as the Global Automotive Declara- ble Substance List (GADSL) and the International Material Data Sys- tem (IMDS) for our automotive products. Continental involves relevant stakeholders in its environmental, oc- cupational health & safety management, which also includes con- sultations with local stakeholders such as authorities, employees and communities. Continental’s ESH policy as well as the sustainability ambitions are communicated externally on our website. In addition, training mate- rials and other guidance documents (such as emergency response plans) are available for company-internal communications pur- poses. Continental communicates and trains the implementation of the rules via environmental, safety and health (EHS) managers within the group sectors. Targets Related to Pollution Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to pollution, it was decided to pursue the management ap- proaches described and not to set a time-bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the tracking of progress is de- scribed in the related management approaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to pollution beyond the described management ap- proaches."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 152 Metrics Relating to Pollution Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Substances of concern Amount of substances of concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.083 0.067 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Hazard classes are assigned in accordance with the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for the classification and labeling of chemicals. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that no significant reactions of substances of concern occur in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the Surface Solutions business area, an expert estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Quantity of substances of concern that leave the company as part of products, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled according to the assumptions described under the metric Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 167 comprises a wide selection of products ranging from components for vehicle interiors to steering systems and air spring systems spe- cifically for commercial vehicles. Generally, the service life of our products for the automotive industry must be equal to the entire service life of the vehicle and thus correspond to the operational service life of the vehicle in which they are installed. In accordance with the assumptions applied to Scope 3 emissions for the use of products sold, the average service life of a passenger car is esti- mated at 200,000 km and that of a commercial vehicle at 1,000,000 km. Although expected service life can vary widely de- pending on vehicle type and application conditions, our products for the automotive industry meet the durability expectations of au- tomotive manufacturers, which are generally a minimum service life of 150,000 km and/or 10 years. The industry business of the ContiTech group sector has a highly diverse portfolio with different applications and specifications in nu- merous branches such as drive belts, storage solution, hoses and niche products like printing blankets. The expected durability can vary significantly depending on sourrounding conditions and the final use-case of the product, that is not always known to Continental. These main factors influencing the product's longevity are setting a product lifespan ranging from a few years up to several decades. To date, there is no established external assessment system for the repairability of Continental’s products. Nevertheless, we are con- stantly working on expanding circular product design, as described in the management approach on circularity, and offer correspond- ing services and products, among others. In principle, our products can be repaired in the event of damage, but the actual possibility depends on many factors, including the actual condition of the product and the degree of damage. In particular, damage such as punctures in the tire can be sealed again using specific procedures so that the tire can continue to be used. In the case of products for the automotive industry, repairs can often be carried out in motor vehicle workshops. Continental operates its own international net- work of workshops in this area. Products from the ContiTech group sector can also be repaired under certain conditions in the event of damage. We also offer corresponding services such as the repair- ing of our conveyor belts and hose solutions. For safety-relevant components (e.g. tires), restrictions on repaira- bility may also apply for safety reasons. The corresponding man- agement approaches Technical and product compliance and Safe mobility can be found in the Consumers and end-users (ESRS S4) section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 168 Waste and recyclable content Waste diverted from disposal, in million t 2024 (1) Non-hazardous waste for reuse 0.000 (2) Non-hazardous waste for recycling 0.309 (3) Non-hazardous waste for other recovery operations 0.069 (4) Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal 0.378 (5) Hazardous waste for reuse 0.000 (6) Hazardous waste for recycling 0.017 (7) Hazardous waste for other recovery operations 0.009 (8) Hazardous waste diverted from disposal 0.025 (9) Total waste diverted from disposal 0.403 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Overarching information for positions (1) – (9): - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Additionally, the December waste for individual locations has been calculated in case the necessary data or receipts were not available at the time of reporting. - Waste that contractually belongs to an external third party is not taken into account. - Hazardous waste is considered following the Annex III of Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the council of waste. - Non-Hazardous waste considers waste which is not covered by the definition of hazardous waste. (1) Non-hazardous waste for reuse - Reuse refers to any process where products and components that are not waste are used again for the same purpose for which they were designed, without significant modification. - Material for reuse does not end up in the waste register. Instead, it is immediately transferred to the corresponding material storage facility. - Consequently, no waste is generated that is intended for reuse. (2) Non-hazardous waste for recycling - Recycling is defined as any recovery process in which waste materials are reprocessed into products, materials, or substances, whether for the original or another purpose. (3) Non-hazardous waste for other recovery operations - Other recovery operations include the generation or recovery of energy through incineration of waste that is to be used as fuel or other means to generate energy. (4) Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal - Total of positions (1) to (3) (5) Hazardous waste for reuse - Reuse refers to any process where products and components that are not waste are used again for the same purpose for which they were designed, without significant modification. - Material for reuse does not end up in the waste register. Instead, it is immediately transferred to the corresponding material storage facility. Consequently, no waste with the intention of reuse is available. (6) Hazardous waste for recycling - Recycling includes all recovery processes in which waste materials are reprocessed into products, materials, or substances, whether for the original purpose or for another purpose. (7) Hazardous waste for other recovery operations - Other recovery operations cover the purpose to generate or recover energy by incineration of waste that is to be used as fuel or other means to generate energy. (8) Hazardous waste diverted from disposal - Total of positions (5) to (7) (9) Total waste diverted from disposal - Total of positions (4) and (8)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 169 Waste directed to disposal, in million t 2024 (10) Non-hazardous waste for incineration 0.001 (11) Non-hazardous waste for landfill 0.041 (12) Non-hazardous waste for other disposal operations 0.006 (13) Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal 0.047 (14) Hazardous waste for incineration 0.003 (15) Hazardous waste for landfill 0.006 (16) Hazardous waste for other disposal operations 0.005 (17) Hazardous waste directed to disposal 0.014 (18) Total waste directed to disposal 0.061 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Overarching information for positions (10) – (18): - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Additionally, the December waste for individual locations has been calculated in case the necessary data or receipts were not available at the time of reporting. - Waste that contractually belongs to an external third party is not taken into account. - Hazardous waste is considered following the Annex III of Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the council of waste. - Non-Hazardous waste considers waste which is not covered by the definition of hazardous waste. (12) Non-hazardous waste for other disposal operations - Other disposal operations are defined as disposal activities that are not considered under incineration or landfill. This includes, for example, the pre-treatment of predominantly liquid and pasty special waste using a variety of chemical, thermal and physical processes to achieve an output suitable for disposal. (13) Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal - Total of positions (10) to (12) (16) Hazardous waste for other disposal operations - Other disposal operations are defined as disposal activities that are not considered under incineration or landfill. This includes, for example, the pre-treatment of predominantly liquid and pasty special waste using a variety of chemical, thermal and physical processes to achieve an output suitable for disposal. (17) Hazardous waste directed to disposal - Total of positions (14) to (16) (18) Total waste directed to disposal - Total of positions (13) and (17) Total waste generated 2024 Total amount of waste generated, in million t 0.464 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric comprises the total waste from all locations worldwide. Sold or discarded machines, wastewater and waste that contractually belongs to an external third party are not included. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Hazardous waste 2024 Total amount of hazardous waste, in million t 0.039 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Sum of items (8) and (17) from the tables “Waste diverted from disposal” and “Waste directed to disposal”. - Waste that contractually belongs to an external third party is not taken into account. Radioactive waste 2024 Total amount of radioactive waste, in million t 0.000 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Radioactive waste is defined in Article 3 (7) of Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom (Annex I). - Continental does not generate any radioactive waste. Non-recycled waste 2024 Amount of non-recycled waste, in million t 0.138 Percentage of non-recycled waste, in % 29.9 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Amount of non-recycled waste - Sum of items (3), (7) and (18) from the tables “Waste diverted from disposal” and “Waste directed to disposal”. - Waste that contractually belongs to an external third party is not taken into account. Percentage of non-recycled waste - Amount of non-recycled waste divided by the amount of waste generated. Waste for recovery quota 2024 Waste for recovery quota, in % 87.2 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is the total of hazardous and non-hazardous waste for recovery and energy recovery divided by the total volume of waste. - Contrary to the amount of waste, construction waste is not included. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. - The metric is entity-specific. Relevant waste streams are described in this section in the man- agement approach Waste in own operations. The materials contained in Continental’s waste are largely deter- mined by the specific resource inflows and are described in the management approaches in this section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 186 Adequate wages Continental commits to equal treatment. These corporate values drive our compensation strategy that forms the basis for the remu- neration for all employees – executives and non-executives alike. Adequate wage 2024 Own employees paid below an adequate wage, in % 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - Wage data is defined as base salary. - An adequate wage is defined as a wage that satisfies the needs of the employee and their family, considering the given national economic and social conditions. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Adequate wages are in accordance with the applicable national laws. If not available, national or sub- national minimum wages as established by legislation or collective bargaining are considered. If not available either, benchmarks meeting relevance criteria are considered. - For parts of the Group that do not report data directly, the assessment of the risk of inadequate wages is based on the RVCDDS risk assessment of the RVC commitment to “fair payment.” Occupational safety and health As part of the management approach for occupational safety and health, Continental carefully monitors the effectiveness by means of dedicated metrics. Coverage of management systems for occupational safety and health 2024 Percentage of people in own workforce covered by a safety and health management system (as at December 31), in % 100 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - Rules are mandatory for all of Continental’s own employees. Fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and work-related ill health 2024 Continental’s own employees 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. - The data is collected by the individual locations. Included are fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and work-related ill health. Fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and work-related ill heath 2024 Other workers on Continental sites 1 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Other workers on Continental sites are defined as persons who work at Continental’s locations and who do not belong to Continental’s own workforce. - The data is collected by the individual locations. Included are fatalities of other workers on Continental’s sites as a result of work-related injuries or work-related ill health. Reportable work-related accidents 2024 Number of reportable work-related accidents 1,974 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - The definition of work-related accidents is based on ESRS. Work-related accidents are accidents that occur during working hours, are work related and result in an injury leading to death, sick day(s), limited capacity to work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, loss of consciousness or significant diagnosed injuries. Commuting accidents are considered if Continental is responsible for the transportation. - The locations determine the reportable work-related accidents according to the above definition."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 187 Rate of all reportable work-related accidents 2024 Rate of all reportable work-related accidents (number of work-related accidents per 1 million working hours) 5.8 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - The definition of work-related accidents is based on ESRS. Work-related accidents (workplace accidents) are accidents that occur during working hours, are work- related and result in an injury leading to death, sick day(s), limited capacity to work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, loss of consciousness or significant diagnosed injuries. Commuting accidents are considered if Continental is responsible for the transportation. - Working hours are defined as paid working time. - The data is collected by the individual locations. The number of reportable work- related accidents is multiplied by one million and then divided by the total number of working hours. Accident rate 2024 Accident rate of work-related accidents with lost workdays (number of accidents per 1 million working hours) 2.1 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - Work-related accidents are accidents that occur during working hours and are work- related. The accident must result in one or more days lost after the day of the accident to be counted. - Working hours are defined as paid working time. - The data is collected by the individual locations. The number of work-related accidents is multiplied by one million and then divided by the total number of working hours. - The metric is entity-specific. Sickness rate 2024 Sickness rate, in % 3.3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices and non-employees are not included. - Sickness includes paid and unpaid sick days. - The data is collected by the individual locations. This metric is calculated by dividing the total paid and unpaid sick days by the total number of working hours. - The metric is entity-specific. Coverage of occupational safety and health management systems 2024 Occupational safety and health management system certification (ISO 45001 or similar) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 67 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employee as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Included are valid certificates, concluded recertification processes and ongoing recertification processes, if the achievement of recertification was considered highly likely. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are considered not to be covered. This metric is calculated from the ratio of own workforce working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific. Remuneration metrics Gender pay gap 2024 Gender pay gap, in % 22.9 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - The gender distribution is based on the information provided by the employees that is documented in Continental’s systems. This metric considers the female gender and the male gender. - Salary or remuneration is defined as base salary, cash allowances, benefits in-kind (e.g. non-cash benefits, company cars) and changes in pension values. - The change in pension values outside Germany corresponds to the average values per employee for the respective legal entity. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. For parts of the Group that do not report data directly, an extrapolation of the primary data is used. Remuneration ratio to the CEO 2024 Annual remuneration ratio to the CEO 139 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices and non- employee are not included. - Pay data or remuneration is defined as base salary, cash allowances, benefits in kind, company cars and change in pension values. - The change in pension values corresponds to the average values per employee for the respective legal entity. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. For parts of the Group that do not report data directly, a calculation method is applied based on the country average calculated using primary data. If the data is not available, valid external statistics are used. - The metric is calculated as the ratio of the CEO’s total annual remuneration to the median total annual remuneration of the company’s own employees excluding the CEO’s remuneration."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 192 The established international standards on human rights including the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights are key references for internal rules. The described established processes for the fulfillment of due dili- gence support the detection of actual negative impacts on human rights and violations of international norms and standards and ena- ble Continental to act upon these with its business partners. Identi- fied and confirmed cases are named in the respective impact de- scriptions. The interests of stakeholders are an important perspective for shaping the RVCDDS. To gain insights into the interests of workers in the value chain, Continental maintains partnerships and is in- volved in associations such as econsense, the Responsible Busi- ness Alliance (RBA), Rubberway, “Deutsche Gesellschaft für Interna- tionale Zusammenarbeit” (GIZ) (German Agency for International Cooperation) and the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rub- ber (GPSNR). The integration of these interests into the system is carried out as part of the annual review process. Continental communicates its management approach through the externally published RVC commitments and the Public Policy Statement. Training initiatives for suppliers are also carried out to further promote shared responsibility along the entire value chain. In addition, direct suppliers are requested to sign the Business Partner Code of Conduct. The communication is thus aimed at af- fected stakeholders as well as stakeholders involved in the imple- mentation. Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts The engagement with workers in the value chain is part of the con- tinuous development of the management approach described. A key element of this is the participation in dialogue formats of associations and initiatives with external stakeholders, such as the sector dialogue for the automotive industry and the dialogue with labor unions. Participation in and maintenance of these dialogue formats take place on a continuous basis. If required, topic- or event-specific discussions take place. The knowledge thus gained about the interests of workers in the value chain supports the development of a shared understanding of industry-related risks and impacts on stakeholders and the resulting due diligence obligations. The processes and activities regarding the detection and mitigation of negative impacts are managed through the RVCDDS and also include cases that are reported by workers in the value chain via Continental’s integrity system. The integrity system is described in more detail in the subsection Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for workers in the value chain to raise con- cerns in this section. This is a form of direct engagement with af- fected stakeholders, in addition to the participation in initiatives and associations. Governance and responsibility for the processes are regulated within the RVCDDS as described in the management approach. The annual review process anchored in the RVCDDS includes a consoli- dation and analysis of relevant information. As an integral part of this, the actual negative impacts identified via the bottom-up im- pact and risk analysis, as well as case management, are reviewed, and the effectiveness of the established processes is monitored. The engagement with particularly vulnerable workers in the value chain is addressed mostly indirectly, e.g. by the RVC commitment on equal treatment. Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for workers in the value chain to raise concerns Grievance channels for value chain workers Continental has established dedicated mechanisms to enable workers in the value chain to raise concerns. These are part of a comprehensive integrity system that comprises three channels: an integrity portal, an integrity hotline and an integrity e-mail address, as described in more detail in the Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) section. Employees as well as third parties outside the Continental Group can report violations of le- gal regulations, fundamental values and ethical standards via these channels. The platform and hotline are managed by an external ser- vice provider, while the integrity e-mail is managed directly by a Conti- nental case management team. The integrity channels can be accessed through our website or via an international phone hotline and are explicitly also open for workers in the value chain. They are available worldwide in many different lan- guages and accessible 24/7, creating broad availability by overcom- ing barriers such as time zones or languages. The integrity system is governed by a dedicated rule that defines roles and responsibilities along the process steps of reporting, report ad- ministration and substantiation, investigation, and sanctioning – in an end-to-end process. The case management is also subject to internal audits. In addition, Continental’s publicly available rules of procedure provide transparency on the handling of cases. Further information on tracking reported cases and ensuring process effectiveness can be found in the Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) section in this sustainability report."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 193 To raise awareness of the integrity system, the Business Partner Code of Conduct contains a section on the complaint mechanisms. In addi- tion, the channels are mentioned in supplier training on the topic of re- sponsible value chains. Continental does not explicitly assess the awareness and trust of workers in the value chain in these channels. In order to protect users of the integrity system, information on all kinds of potential violation can be reported anonymously. Reporting and investigation information is treated confidentially in accordance with applicable laws throughout the entire management of the case. The whistleblowing process is in line with the German Whistleblower Protection Act and relevant international legislation. Remediation processes When complaints are received via the whistleblowing channels or through audit findings, Continental follows a structured process to investigate and address the respective cases. If the violation occurs within the value chain, Continental collaborates closely with the re- spective business partner to resolve the violation effectively and prevent similar incidents from occurring in the future. For this pur- pose, e.g. corrective action plans are created together with the busi- ness partner. The effectiveness of the remedy is assessed through audits, internal investigations, and the implementation of corrective action plans. Targets Related to Workers in the Value Chain Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to workers in the value chain, it was decided to pursue the management approach described and not to set a time-bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the track- ing of progress is described in the related management ap- proaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to workers in the value chain beyond the described man- agement approach."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 196 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Affected Communities In the IRO assessment, Continental identified potential negative im- pacts on affected communities related to harmful environmental impacts, security practices, land rights and other human rights top- ics in own operations or the value chain. These are described at the beginning of the section. These negative impacts are linked to Continental’s strategy and business model and relate in particular to countries, certain markets and industries of the supplier base and Continental’s own operations, which are exposed to such im- pacts to a critical or significant extent. The development of measures and strategic decisions based on the impacts identified is described in this sustainability report as part of the management approaches Environmental protection in own operations, Environmental protection in the supply chain, and Substances of concern and very high concern in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section as well as Labor standards in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section and in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section. The identified risk is not related to a dependency on affected com- munities, but rather to geographical and industry-related aspects. As indicated by the description, it results directly from the identified potential impacts and is also based on the breadth and diversity of countries, markets and industries in Continental’s own operations and supplier base. The risk is therefore inherently linked to Continental’s strategy and business model. As Continental sources goods, materials and services from numer- ous industries along the value chain, this essentially has potential impacts on all types of affected communities. Communities living or working near Continental sites or near to companies in Conti- nental’s supply chain are considered to be particularly affected. In both cases, this also includes indigenous people. The impacts on communities in the downstream value chain are rather considered as indirect. Continental’s assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities did not focus on affected communities with specific characteristics or in specific activities and contexts, and accordingly did not pro- vide an understanding of specific exposure to harm. The assessment of the material negative impacts regarding own workforce was integrated in the general impact, risk and oppor- tunity assessment following the defined methodology. All negative impacts are considered widespread or systemic as they relate to countries, certain markets and industries in Conti- nental’s own operations or supplier base. In addition, the methodol- ogy takes into account event-based actual negative impacts wher- ever the impact description contains a reference to concrete actual incidents. The assessment of potential material impacts on affected commu- nities in general considers the entire value chain but is explicitly fo- cused on the supply chain. Connections to the company’s own op- erations, product portfolio and business relationships are taken into account where relevant."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 197 Management Approach to Affected Communities Continental’s approach to managing material impacts and risks that may also affect communities is covered by the following manage- ment approaches, which are described elsewhere in this sustaina- bility report: › Environmental protection in own operations with regard to poten- tial impacts from pollution caused by the own operations (see the Pollution (ESRS E2) section). › Environmental protection in the supply chain with regard to po- tential impacts due to pollution caused by suppliers (see the Pol- lution (ESRS E2) section). › Substances of concern and very high concern with regard to po- tential impacts due to their use in own operations, the upstream value chain and the downstream value chain (see the Pollution (ESRS E2) section). › Labor standards with a more detailed description of the Respon- sible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS) and the pro- cesses for own operations (see the Own workforce (ESRS S1) sec- tion). These also include the Responsible Value Chain Commit- ments (RVC commitments) in relation to land rights, including the rights of indigenous people and responsible security practices. › Workers in the value chain in which the RVCDDS and its pro- cesses for the supply chain are described in detail (see the Work- ers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). The focus of the management approaches and the RVCDDS in par- ticular is on own operations and direct suppliers, and therefore on affected communities in their vicinity. Indirectly and on an ad hoc basis, the deeper supply chain is also taken into account. Specific elements of the RVCDDS, in particular the integrity system and the associated case management, are aimed directly at all affected communities along the value chain. As part of the RVCDDS, in addition to the RVC commitments de- scribed in the management approaches mentioned, Continental commits to respect legitimate land rights throughout the entire life cycle of a property or other use of land, forests and water, espe- cially where these secure the livelihoods of people. With regard to responsible security practices, Continental commits to respecting human rights when contracting or using its own, pri- vate or public security forces and to ensure sufficient instructions and establish appropriate control mechanisms. The instruments of the RVCDDS regarding preventive and remedial measures, communication and alignment with internationally rec- ognized standards and the system review, as described in the man- agement approaches, include the company’s own workforce, work- ers in the value chain as well as affected communities. Processes for engaging with affected communities about impacts As described for the following management approaches, Conti- nental engages with affected communities at local level and has also established generally accessible channels for complaints. The interests of affected stakeholders are an important perspective for the further development of the management approaches Envi- ronmental protection in own operations (see the Pollution (ESRS E2) section), Environmental protection in the supply chain (see the Pollution (ESRS E2) section), Labor standards (see the Own Work- force (ESRS S1) section) and Workforce in the value chain (see the Workforce in the Value Chain (ESRS S2) section). This may also in- clude direct exchange with affected communities or their repre- sentatives, e.g. through partnerships and dialogue with associa- tions. This stakeholder engagement, also in terms of timing, type, frequency, responsibility and monitoring of effectiveness, is de- scribed in the management approaches listed above. The outlined processes of engagement include all types of affected communities, including indigenous people. Beyond the general pro- cesses, there are no specific processes for engagement with indige- nous people or for the provision of remedial measures. Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for affected communities to raise concerns Continental has set up general channels for the raising of com- plaints, which can also be used by affected communities. These channels are part of a comprehensive integrity system that is explained in detail in the Business conduct and corporate gov- ernance (ESRS G1) section of this sustainability report. The chan- nels described are also explicitly open to members of affected com- munities or their representatives. The defined roles and responsibil- ities along the process steps of reporting, report administration and substantiation, investigation, and sanctioning apply equally for all cases submitted by them. There are no specific mechanisms for ap- plying remedial measures for affected communities."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 202 As part of an annual review process, the Executive Board of Conti- nental is updated on the current status of the tCMS and decides on the system’s adequacy and potential for improvement. Further- more, the tCMS is integrated into Continental’s overarching internal control system, the risk management system and the compliance management system. The tCMS is documented in a dedicated internal rule. Additional in- ternal rules relevant for technical compliance cover in particular specific design standards and testing procedures. The tCMS was developed on the basis of industry standards such as IDW PS 980 and ISO 37301 and is compliant with those. Conti- nental’s technical compliance standards focus on compliance with legal technical regulations (LTRs) as well as applicable national and international standards (NIS) related to product safety, product con- formity, environmental requirements to products, product cyberse- curity and data protection. In addition, the standards also consider contractually agreed technical requirements of customers with re- gard to legal technical obligations relevant for them, applicable ex- ternal standards as well as internal rules of the customers as bind- ing product requirements. These include, for example, specific product certification and material or emission limits that apply to the overall system, e.g. a complete vehicle. In the technical compliance environment, the interests of stake- holders are to a major extent covered indirectly through compre- hensive regulatory requirements and requirements imposed by the standards. This also includes the interests of consumers and end- users. Key direct stakeholders are customers and authorities. Close dialogue with these stakeholders is a key element of the manage- ment approach. Continental communicates its management approach externally and internally. The responsible employees are trained in technical compliance. There are numerous further communication formats (such as open calls) to promote the management approach. Safe mobility With technological solutions aiming at zero road traffic accidents and fatalities, Continental strives for maximum safety in mobility. This ambition is deeply rooted in the company culture and re- flected by the broad product portfolio of safety-relevant products (e.g. brakes, sensors, driver assistant systems, tires). The focus of the Continental’s management approach related to safe mobility is therefore the fulfillment of this ambition, mitigation of the related risks and facilitation of the profitable business with safety-relevant products. In general, the management approach covers Continental’s entire portfolio, but is geared especially towards the safety-relevant prod- ucts. It encompasses all groups of consumers or end-users rather than focusing on any specific group. Safety-relevant products include, for example, the following prod- ucts: › Efficient brake systems are essential for controlling vehicle move- ment, predictive and preventive safety functions, safe infrastruc- ture solutions and advanced driver assistance systems. › Tires are the only point of contact between a vehicle and the road. In a critical situation, it is the tire that determines whether the vehicle is able to stop in time or stay safely in course through a corner. The performance of a tire is therefore directly related to the braking behavior. › In addition, our ContiTech group sector develops and supplies nu- merous sealing and suspension components for hydraulic, pneu- matic and electronic brake systems. Since they are used in a safety-relevant system, they are essential for the functional relia- bility of a vehicle. The handling and adaptation of the respective portfolio is steered by the responsible business. Oversight of the effectiveness of the portfolio management is exercised by the group sector boards and the Executive Board, for example, in the strategy process. Manage- ment of the key processes is handled by the respective depart- ments within business, e.g. research and development (R&D), prod- uct design, supply chain management and purchasing, and is sup- ported by the sustainability departments. The processes for managing the opportunities of safe mobility within Continental’s group sectors are especially R&D activities, close dialogue with customers, active portfolio management and market observation. The development and placement of new prod- ucts for safe mobility are driven by increasing safety regulations, e.g. US federal motor vehicle safety standards or the safety regula- tions of the European Commission. Beside ensuring compliance with the constantly increasing regulations, Continental also re- searches and develops new products and solutions for safe mobil- ity. The product development processes also include working on the economic feasibility, market readiness and scaling of such solu- tions as well as the cooperation with customers, suppliers and other institutions (e.g. universities). Elements of the management approach are codified in correspond- ing internal rules and frameworks. The management approach to safe mobility does not directly fol- low external standards. However, it is closely linked to the manage- ment approach to technical and product compliance. The relevant impacts on end-users and consumers in the context of safe mobility (especially personal safety) are not directly related to their human rights, as they are positive impacts."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Governance Information 208 Continental’s compliance management system is based on a set of rules. As a main element of Continental’s compliance program, the creation and communication of rules is embedded into Conti- nental’s rule governance process, utilizing a centrally-used rule management application including relevant processes. Continental's compliance management system is based on the IDW Assurance Standard 980 for compliance management systems of the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany, Incorporated Associa- tion (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer in Deutschland e. V. (IDW)). Continental’s management approach with regard to business con- duct, corporate governance and corporate culture considers the in- terests of various stakeholders such as employees, shareholders, customers and whistleblowers. The communication of CMS-relevant information is managed by the compliance organization promoting integrity culture in general as well as compliance areas and topics in particular. For example, a regular series called “Case of the Quarter” enhances sensitivity to compliance topics through an accessible and easy-to-understand “true crime” format. Open calls, intranet articles, workshops, and posts in relevant internal channels focus on topics at hand. Addi- tionally, the compliance management system comprises several mandatory general as well as specific web-based and face-to-face training sessions for various target groups in the respective group sectors or functions. A comprehensive training concept ensures basic training for Continental’s fixed employees in the mentioned compliance areas as well as risk-based advanced and deep dive training for topic- and target group-specific content. The training plan foresees basic training courses for anti-bribery and anti-corruption topics. These are held annually and are mandatory for all fixed employees. See also the associated metric “Anti-corruption and anti-bribery train- ing programs”. Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery Continental has established its integrity hotline as the main system to report, prevent and detect unethical and unlawful behavior, in- cluding corruption and bribery. The reporting of such concerns makes an important contribution towards detection and prevention of misconduct. Continental does not tolerate retaliation against whistleblowers. The procedures in place to prevent, detect and deal with allega- tions or incidents of corruption and bribery are covered by the de- scribed management approaches to business conduct, corporate governance and corporate culture. In the event of report placement, an independent investigation unit from the internal audit function decides on conducting of the inves- tigation within the limitations of an internal rule for whistleblowing and internal investigations at its own discretion. All investigations are subject to the need-to-know principle. Accord- ing to this principle, information may only be distributed or made accessible to persons who receive allegations, administer cases, perform investigations, define sanctions, or support any of these activities, or where Continental has a legitimate interest to inform other departments (for example, in cases of litigation), where re- quired. Particularly, the identities of the whistleblower and the ac- cused person remain confidential and undisclosed to unconcerned parties, unless the investigation, conflicting (data protection) laws and regulations, and/or legal proceedings require doing so. For each case investigated, the investigation unit prepares a report and evaluates the case at its own discretion. After finalization of a draft report, the investigation unit sends the report to the compli- ance case management team (as part of the Compliance organiza- tion) for review and quality assurance. The recommendations con- tained in the report are defined and tracked by the respective in- vestigation unit and are implemented by the management. The compliance case management team submits a report about ongoing and closed investigations to the Chief Compliance Officer and the Head of Group Internal Audit on a quarterly basis. In cases of assumed high impact for Continental in the short term, the com- pliance case management team immediately reports the circum- stances of the respective case to the Chief Compliance Officer. The Chief Compliance Officer and the Head of Group Internal Audit report to the Executive Board as well as to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on a regular basis. If an allegation against a member of the Executive Board is substantiated, the report is not forwarded to the Executive Board but to the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. In general, communication about corruption and bribery matters is part of the overarching management approach to business con- duct, corporate governance and corporate culture. In addition, all internal rules are available on Continental’s platform for internal rules on the intranet and is accessible to every employee with com- puter access. Web-based and face-to-face trainings ensure that rule content is explained to addressees in practical terms including providing examples and case studies. Continental’s anti-corruption and anti-bribery training program are mainly drawn up on web-based training courses delivered via a special learning platform. Basic principles and rules on this topic are presented and case studies are provided so that participants themselves can check the correct understanding of the learning content. The training is mandatory for all fixed employees. Through face-to-face training focusing on specialized in-depth content, se- lected functions (e.g. purchasing and sales) are trained in relevant aspects of business conduct and corporate governance. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are regularly up- dated by the Chief Compliance Officer on recent developments re- garding compliance (anti-corruption and anti-bribery) topics. These updates contain updates on new regulatory requirements, if re- quired, and therefore serve a training purpose. In addition, the Ex- ecutive Board receives the same compliance training as all other fixed employees."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Governance Information 209 Targets Related to Business Conduct and Corporate Governance Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to business conduct and corporate governance, it was decided to pursue the management approaches described and not to set a time-bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effec- tiveness and the tracking of progress is described in the related management approaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to business conduct and corporate governance beyond the described management approaches."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Governance Information 210 Metrics for Business Conduct and Corporate Governance OUR BASICS Live Integrity Perception index 2024 OUR BASICS Live Integrity Perception index, in % 79 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The OUR BASICS Live Integrity Perception index is defined as the agreement of the employees to the questions relating to the topic of integrity perception in the OUR BASICS Live employee survey. - The survey is based on a representative random sample across all Continental locations worldwide. - The metric is entity-specific. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery training programs 2024 Functions-at-risk covered by anti-corruption and anti-bribery training programs (as at December 31), in % 100 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices and non- employees are excluded. - Function-at-risk is a function in which the employees mainly work in administrative areas and receive salaries. - The anti-corruption and anti-bribery training programs are mandatory for all functions-at-risk. As no incidents occurred during the reporting period, Continental did not have to take any measures to remedy breaches of anti-cor- ruption and anti-bribery procedures and standards. Convictions for corruption and bribery 2024 Number of convictions for corruption and bribery 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are convictions of Conti¬nental or convictions associated with Conti¬nental of which Conti¬nental has substantiated knowledge. - Convictions for which a court decision at first instance was issued during the reporting year are considered. - The definitions of corruption and bribery follow the applicable national laws. - The data is collected by the legal entities. Fines for corruption and bribery convictions 2024 Total amount of fines for violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Convictions that result in a fine as penalty for the Conti¬nental Group or one of its subsidiaries are considered. - Included are fines paid out in the reporting year. - Definitions of anti-corruption and anti-bribery follow the national applicable laws. - The data is collected by the legal entities that document the convictions. - Related expenses within the meaning of the ESRS are reported in the consolidated financial statements under Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 212 Disclosure Requirement Section/Subsection Page ESRS E1– Climate change E1.GOV-3 – Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 116 E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation Transition plan for climate change mitigation 137 E1.SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Material impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change 126-127 Resilience analysis 128 E1.IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to climate change 108 E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy 129-132 E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies Key actions for target achievement 135-136 E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Targets related to climate change 133-134 E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix 143-144 E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Gross Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions and total GHG emissions 139-143 E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through CO2 credits 145 E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing Internal CO2 pricing system 138 ESRS E2 – Pollution E2.IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to pollution 108 E2-1 – Policies related to pollution Management approaches to pollution prevention 148-151 E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution Key actions for target achievement 151 E2-3 – Targets related to pollution Targets related to pollution 151 E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 152-153 ESRS E3 – Water and marine resources E3.IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to water and marine resources 109 ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model Consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in the strategy and business model 158 E4.SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Further information on the IRO assessment in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems 155 E4.IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems 109 E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems Management approaches to biodiversity and ecosystems 155-157 E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems Key actions for target achievement 157 E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 157 ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy E5.IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy- related impacts, risks and opportunities Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to resource use and circular economy 109"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 213 Disclosure Requirement Section/Subsection Page E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy Management approaches for resource use and circular economy 160-161 E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy Key actions for target achievement 163-164 E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy Targets related to resource use and circular economy 161-162 E5-4 – Resource inflows Resource inflows 165-166 E5-5 – Resource outflows Resource outflows 166-169 ESRS S1 – Own workforce S1.SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders Interests and views of stakeholders relating to own workforce 103 S1.SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Further information on the IRO assessment in relation to the own workforce 172 S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce Management approaches to own workforce 173-179 S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 179 S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns 180 S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions Key actions for target achievement 181-182 S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities Targets related to own workforce 181 S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees Characteristics of the company’s employees 183-184 S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 184 S1-9 – Diversity metrics Diversity 185 S1-10 – Adequate wages Adequate wages 186 S1-14 – Health and safety metrics Occupational safety and health 186-187 S1-16 – Compensation metrics (pay gap and total compensation) Remuneration metrics 187 S1-17 – Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts 188 ESRS S2 – Workers in the value chain S2.SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders Interests and views of stakeholders relating to workers in the value chain 103 S2.SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Further information on the IRO assessment in relation to workers in the value chain 190 S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers Management approach to workers in the value chain 191-192 S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain about impacts Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 192 S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for workers in the value chain to raise concerns 192-193 S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions Key actions for target achievement 193 S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities Targets related to workers in the value chain 193"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 214 Disclosure Requirement Section/Subsection Page ESRS S3 – Affected communities S3.SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders Interests and views of stakeholders relating to affected communities 103 S3.SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Further information on the IRO assessment in relation to affected communities 196 S3-1 – Policies related to affected communities Management approach to affected communities 197 S3-2 – Process for engaging with affected communities about impacts Processes for engaging with affected communities about impacts 197 S3-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for affected communities to raise concerns Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for affected communities to raise concerns 197-198 S3-4 – Taking action on material impacts on affected communities, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions Key actions for target achievement 198 S3-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities Targets related to affected communities 198 ESRS S4 – Consumers and end-users S4.SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders Interests and views of stakeholders relating to consumers and end-users 103 S4.SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Further information on the IRO assessment in relation to consumers and end-users 200 S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users Management approaches to consumers and end-users 201-203 S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts 203 S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 203 S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions Key actions for target achievement 204 S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities Targets related to consumers and end-users 204 ESRS G1 – Business conduct G1.GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Business conduct, corporate governance and corporate culture 206 G1.IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to business conduct and corporate governance 109 G1-1 – Corporate culture and business conduct policies Business conduct, corporate governance and corporate culture 206-208 G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 208 G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery Metrics for business conduct and corporate governance 210"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 215 Overview and Index of Data Points in General and Topic-Related Standards that are Derived from Other EU Legislation The table below illustrates the data points in ESRS 2 and topic-related ESRS that are derived from other EU legislation. Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Sustainability report of Continental Page ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity, paragraph 21 (d) Indicator No. 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 111 ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent, paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 111 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence, paragraph 30 Indicator No. 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 115 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities, paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators No. 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453, Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risks and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risks Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not applicable – no related activities at Continental ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production, paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator No. 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not applicable – no related activities at Continental ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons, paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator No. 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not applicable – no related activities at Continental ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco, paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not applicable – no related activities at Continental ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050, paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 137 ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks, paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 137 ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets, paragraph 34 Indicator No. 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 133-134 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors), paragraph 38 Indicator No. 5 Table #1 and Indicator No. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 143 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix, paragraph 37 Indicator No. 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 143"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 216 Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Sustainability report of Continental Page ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors, paragraphs 40 to 43 Indicator No. 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 144 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions, paragraph 44 Indicators No. 1 and 2 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 5(1), 6 and 8(1) 138-142 ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity, paragraphs 53 to 55 Indicator No. 3 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 8(1) 143 ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits, paragraph 56 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 145 ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate- related physical risks, paragraph 66 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Phase-in of disclosure requirements, therefore no disclosure in the first reporting year ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk, paragraph 66 (a) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk Phase-in of disclosure requirements, therefore no disclosure in the first reporting year ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk, paragraph 66 (c) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk Phase-in of disclosure requirements, therefore no disclosure in the first reporting year ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes, paragraph 67 (c) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraph 34; Template 2: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property – Energy efficiency of the collateral Phase-in of disclosure requirements, therefore no disclosure in the first reporting year ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities, paragraph 69 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Phase-in of disclosure requirements, therefore no disclosure in the first reporting year ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 Indicator No. 8 Table #1 of Annex 1, Indicator No. 2 Table #2 of Annex 1, Indicator No. 1 Table #2 of Annex 1, Indicator No. 3 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-1 Water and marine resources, paragraph 9 Indicator No. 7 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy, paragraph 13 Indicator No. 8 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas, paragraph 14 Indicator No. 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Report on Expected Developments 94 Comparison of forecasts for the group sectors of Continental for fiscal 2024 Automotive Tires ContiTech Contract Manufacturing Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Annual press conference on March 7, 2024 ~ 20.0 – 22.0 ~ 3.0 – 4.0 ~ 14.0 – 15.0 ~ 13.0 – 14.0 ~ 6.6 – 7.0 ~ 6.5 – 7.5 ~ 0.2 – 0.3 ~ 0 Half-year financial report as at August 7, 2024 ~ 19.5 – 21.0 ~ 2.5 – 3.5 ~ 13.5 – 14.5 ~ 13.0 – 14.0 ~ 6.6 – 7.0 ~ 6.5 – 7.0 ~ 0.2 – 0.3 ~ 0 Quarterly statement as at November 11, 2024 ~ 19.5 – 21.0 ~ 2.5 – 3.5 ~ 13.5 – 14.5 ~ 13.0 – 14.0 ~ 6.2 – 6.6 ~ 5.8 – 6.3 ~ 0.2 – 0.3 ~ 0 2024 annual report 19.4 2.3 13.9 13.7 6.4 6.2 0.2 2.9 Comparison of key forecast elements for the Continental Group for fiscal 2024 Continental Group Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Special effects (€ billions) Investments (in % of sales) Adjusted free cash flow (€ billions) Annual press conference on March 7, 2024 ~ 41.0 – 44.0 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ –0.45 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ 0.7 – 1.1 Half-year financial report as at August 7, 2024 ~ 40.0 – 42.5 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ –0.35 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ 0.6 – 1.0 Quarterly statement as at November 11, 2024 ~ 39.5 – 42.0 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ –0.35 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ 0.6 – 1.0 2024 annual report 39.7 6.8 –0.30 5.5 1.1 All figures take into account the exceptions and definitions specified in each case in the comparison against forecast. Based on the above assumptions as well as on the exchange rates at the beginning of the fiscal year, we expect the following key financial figures for fiscal 2025: › We expect the Continental Group to achieve sales in the range of around €38.0 billion to €41.0 billion and an adjusted EBIT margin of around 6.5% to 7.5%. › We expect our Automotive group sector to achieve sales of around €18.0 billion to €20.0 billion. We expect the adjusted EBIT margin to be around 2.5% to 4.0%. › We expect our Tires group sector to achieve sales of around €13.5 billion to €14.5 billion and an adjusted EBIT margin of around 13.3% to 14.3%. › We expect our ContiTech group sector to achieve sales of around €6.3 billion to €6.8 billion and an adjusted EBIT margin of around 6.0% to 7.0%. › In our Contract Manufacturing group sector, we anticipate sales of around €100 million to €200 million and an adjusted EBIT margin of around 0%. › Consolidated amortization from purchase price allocations is expected to be around €100 million and affect mainly the Auto- motive and ContiTech group sectors. › In addition, we anticipate negative special effects of around €700 million. › In 2025, we expect the negative financial result to be around €350 million before effects from currency translation, effects from changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, and other valuation effects. › The tax rate is expected to be around 27%. › The capital expenditure ratio is expected to be around 6.0% of sales in fiscal 2025. › In 2025, we are planning on adjusted free cash flow of approxi- mately €0.8 billion to €1.2 billion."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Report on Expected Developments 94 Comparison of forecasts for the group sectors of Continental for fiscal 2024 Automotive Tires ContiTech Contract Manufacturing Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Annual press conference on March 7, 2024 ~ 20.0 – 22.0 ~ 3.0 – 4.0 ~ 14.0 – 15.0 ~ 13.0 – 14.0 ~ 6.6 – 7.0 ~ 6.5 – 7.5 ~ 0.2 – 0.3 ~ 0 Half-year financial report as at August 7, 2024 ~ 19.5 – 21.0 ~ 2.5 – 3.5 ~ 13.5 – 14.5 ~ 13.0 – 14.0 ~ 6.6 – 7.0 ~ 6.5 – 7.0 ~ 0.2 – 0.3 ~ 0 Quarterly statement as at November 11, 2024 ~ 19.5 – 21.0 ~ 2.5 – 3.5 ~ 13.5 – 14.5 ~ 13.0 – 14.0 ~ 6.2 – 6.6 ~ 5.8 – 6.3 ~ 0.2 – 0.3 ~ 0 2024 annual report 19.4 2.3 13.9 13.7 6.4 6.2 0.2 2.9 Comparison of key forecast elements for the Continental Group for fiscal 2024 Continental Group Sales (€ billions) Adjusted EBIT margin (%) Special effects (€ billions) Investments (in % of sales) Adjusted free cash flow (€ billions) Annual press conference on March 7, 2024 ~ 41.0 – 44.0 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ –0.45 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ 0.7 – 1.1 Half-year financial report as at August 7, 2024 ~ 40.0 – 42.5 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ –0.35 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ 0.6 – 1.0 Quarterly statement as at November 11, 2024 ~ 39.5 – 42.0 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ –0.35 ~ 6.0 – 7.0 ~ 0.6 – 1.0 2024 annual report 39.7 6.8 –0.30 5.5 1.1 All figures take into account the exceptions and definitions specified in each case in the comparison against forecast. Based on the above assumptions as well as on the exchange rates at the beginning of the fiscal year, we expect the following key financial figures for fiscal 2025: › We expect the Continental Group to achieve sales in the range of around €38.0 billion to €41.0 billion and an adjusted EBIT margin of around 6.5% to 7.5%. › We expect our Automotive group sector to achieve sales of around €18.0 billion to €20.0 billion. We expect the adjusted EBIT margin to be around 2.5% to 4.0%. › We expect our Tires group sector to achieve sales of around €13.5 billion to €14.5 billion and an adjusted EBIT margin of around 13.3% to 14.3%. › We expect our ContiTech group sector to achieve sales of around €6.3 billion to €6.8 billion and an adjusted EBIT margin of around 6.0% to 7.0%. › In our Contract Manufacturing group sector, we anticipate sales of around €100 million to €200 million and an adjusted EBIT margin of around 0%. › Consolidated amortization from purchase price allocations is expected to be around €100 million and affect mainly the Auto- motive and ContiTech group sectors. › In addition, we anticipate negative special effects of around €700 million. › In 2025, we expect the negative financial result to be around €350 million before effects from currency translation, effects from changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, and other valuation effects. › The tax rate is expected to be around 27%. › The capital expenditure ratio is expected to be around 6.0% of sales in fiscal 2025. › In 2025, we are planning on adjusted free cash flow of approxi- mately €0.8 billion to €1.2 billion."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 134 To reach the target level of GHG emissions, Continental has identified two primary decarbonization levers. › Continued purchase of green electricity: Continental purchases electricity exclusively from renewable energy sources. Various contractual instruments are used for this purpose, which are listed in the corresponding metrics. Continuation of this approach allows the avoidance of market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions from electricity consumption. › Technological transformation: This lever is closely linked to the operational processes and is formalized in the technology trans- formation roadmaps of the individual group sectors. It consists primarily of the sub-levers such as the phase-out of coal, the gradual phase-out of other fossil fuels, the switch to biofuels and biomass as well as increased electrification of production pro- cesses that were previously run on fossil fuels. According to Continental’s assessment, the targeted GHG reductions will be fully, i.e. to 100 %, achieved through combination of the two aforementioned decarbonization levers. The two levers are inextrica- bly linked, and both have a simultaneous effect on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Any further breakdown of the contributions into Scope 1 and Scope 2 is therefore not meaningful. Continental sees the increase in energy efficiency and the expansion of capacities for self-generation of electricity from renewable sources primarily not as direct, but as supporting levers for target achieve- ment. Continental is of the opinion that the implementation of these levers with the speed required to achieve the target is in line with the 1.5°C pathway as set out in the original target setting. The operationalization of these decarbonization levers through the key actions is reflected in the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040, with which Continental is creating a framework for target achievement. Continental’s progress regarding the set emissions reduction target can be derived from the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Progress is measured using the defined metric, which was fully adapted to the ESRS requirements in 2024. In 2024, there were no significant changes to the business model and business activities that could potentially affect the target achievement. In Continental’s opin- ion, progress towards achieving the target by 2024 is in line with the original plans."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 126 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Climate Change Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative and positive impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in relation to climate change. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management ap- proaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate manage- ment approaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is re- quired. As positive impacts as well as opportunities are strength- ened by Continental’s management approaches, the descriptions are presented from a net perspective which, for methodical rea- sons, considers the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Risks 6, 7 and 9 represent climate-related physical risks. The re- maining identified risks are transition risks. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions › Continental has moderate Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emis- sions in own operations which contribute to global climate change and are therefore considered relevant for corporate re- sponsibility. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 2) › Continental considers the negative impacts of its energy con- sumption to be limited. Taking into account the share of fossil fuels in energy consumption, it is considered relevant for the in- formation needs of users of sustainability reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 5) › Continental operates in industries and certain markets where fast- increasing regulatory requirements related to specific aspects of climate change mitigation could lead to a significant devaluation of real estate assets in specific businesses, especially in the me- dium-term, if not managed adequately and preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 10) › Continental operates in regions and industries where a moderate increase in investment and operating costs related to climate change mitigation (e.g. transformation of production sites) or reg- ulatory requirements (e.g. trading schemes) can be expected es- pecially in the medium-term. This risk is considered relevant for the information needs of users of sustainability reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 12) › Continental operates in regions and industries where, in the un- likely event of regulation allowing no or only limited overshoot of a 1.5°C temperature increase, a significant increase in investment and operating costs related to climate change mitigation can be expected especially in the medium-term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 13) Scope 3, portfolio resilience and transition › Continental has significant Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions re- lated to the so-called CO2 backpack which especially includes the purchased goods and services as well as the disposal of products at the end of the life cycle. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 1) › Continental has substantive direct and indirect Scope 3 green- house gas emissions especially from the use phase of its prod- ucts. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 3) › Continental develops and manufactures components and sys- tems for zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles and low-carbon industries and thus presumably has to some extend positive impacts on the transition of markets to carbon neutrality which are considered to be relevant for further expansion. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 4) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because of climate change-related regula- tory requirements and market trends (e.g. gradual shift away from combustion engines or phase-out of fossil fuels). Given the broad- ness of Continental's portfolio, some product segments and the business with specific customer groups might face transforma- tional challenges and the speed of change could exceed the po- tential speed of adaptation. This can, if not managed adequately, lead to significant loss in sales in the respective businesses, espe- cially in the long run. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 8) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets in which, in the un- likely event of regulation allowing no or only limited overshoot of a 1.5°C temperature increase, would result in extreme transfor- mation (e.g. abrupt phase-out of combustion engines and fossil fuels). Given the broadness of Continental's portfolio, most product Climate Change (ESRS E1)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 127 › segments and the business with most customer groups would face extreme transformational challenges and the speed of change would exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, potentially lead to a critical loss in sales in the respective businesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 15) › Continental's product portfolio serves markets which are also transforming considerably because of climate change mitigation- related regulatory and market trends (e.g. zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles). This could increase demand for certain businesses of Continental. If Continental can utilize these trends effectively, spe- cific businesses (e.g. dealing with brakes, high performance tires and hydrogen) can profit directly or indirectly from significant growth opportunities or even new business areas/models in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 16) Climate change adaptation › Continental operates in regions and industries where a significant increase in investment and operating costs related to climate change adaptation could be expected, particularly in the long term, considering physical climate change, especially in terms of temperature increases and the associated need for cooling. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 9) › Continental is present in regions and at locations where a risk of limited devaluation of real estate assets and/or stranded assets due to physical climate change, with increasing extreme weather events, might be possible especially in the long term, if not man- aged preventively. This risk is considered relevant for the infor- mation needs of users of sustainability reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 6) Supply chain resilience and transition › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in industries and certain markets which might be sub- ject to increasing regulatory requirements and major transfor- mation in relation to climate change mitigation (e.g. trading sys- tems and the transition of suppliers' production sites). In addition, the demand for products and services with a low carbon footprint might increase faster than the supply. Both aspects can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components and/or ser- vices especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 11) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers also op- erate in industries and certain markets which could be subject to extreme transformation and regulatory requirements related to climate change mitigation in the unlikely event of a regulation al- lowing no or only limited overshoot of a 1.5°C temperature in- crease. In addition, the demand for products and services with a low carbon footprint might increase faster than the supply. Both aspects might possibly lead to a critical increase in costs for ma- terials, components and/or services in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 14) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in geographies, industries and certain markets which might be affected by physical climate change, including more ex- treme weather events and increasing long-term climate change. This can lead to moderate supply chain interruptions or material shortages especially in the long term, if not managed preven- tively. This risk is considered relevant for the information needs of users of sustainability reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 7)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 128 Resilience Analysis The analysis of the resilience of Continental’s strategy and business model to the climate change along the entire value chain is inte- grated into the general IRO assessment (see subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclo- sures (ESRS 2) section). In the process of identifying and assessing risks and opportunities as part of the general IRO assessment, Continental took into con- sideration several factors and scenarios. The scenarios are de- scribed in the subsection Specifics of the IRO assessment in rela- tion to climate change in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The use of scenarios and assumptions by definition leads to uncer- tainties in the outcome of the analysis. Further factors considered included especially the following: reduced overall emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and reduced energy consumption due to a switch of fuels towards low-carbon alternatives, enhanced energy efficiency, increased deployment of renewable energy, higher pro- duction share of zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles as well as different speeds of transition to low-carbon technologies. To assess the resili- ence of Continental’s business model to the identified risks and op- portunities, a net assessment was carried out considering the exist- ing management approaches, targets and key actions to achieve the targets related to climate change. Based on the IRO assessment considering the associated limita- tions, uncertainties, time horizons and assumptions as outlined in subsection Process for identifying and assessing material IROs in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section as well as taking into ac- count the management approaches Continental considers its busi- ness model and strategy to be resilient. The management ap- proaches, targets and key actions laid out in this section for achiev- ing the targets describe Continental’s capability to reduce its mate- rial negative impacts, increase positive impacts, manage risks and seize opportunities over short-, medium- and long-term. Continental also assumes that these capabilities will continue to develop over time."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 129 Management Approaches to Climate Change Mitigation, Climate Change Adaptation, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Regarding climate change, Continental has implemented manage- ment approaches that include the following IRO clusters: Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition, climate change adaptation, and supply chain resilience and transition. The following table illustrates the topic areas that are addressed by the specific management approaches. Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Energy efficiency Renewable energy deployment Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions X X X Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition X X X Climate change adaptation X Supply chain resilience and transition X X Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Continental pursues the ambition of achieving full carbon neutrality for its own operations by 2040 and for the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. To support this ambition, Continental has imple- mented a management approach that focuses on minimizing nega- tive environmental impacts and risks in relation to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The management approach also ad- dresses the minimization of transition risks related to Scope 1 and Scope 2. The management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emis- sions covers the entire Continental Group and focuses especially on the production sites, as they are particularly emission-intensive compared to other types of locations. Responsibility for the operational implementation of the manage- ment approach to reduce GHG emissions lies with the respective legal entities. The local management is supported by various func- tions in the organization, e.g. by the departments such as opera- tions, infrastructure, real estate management and purchasing. The Group’s internal framework is defined by the responsible depart- ments (e.g. environment and operations) of Continental and is mon- itored by the Executive Board of the overall Group as well as the in- dividual group sector boards. Continental has established several processes to continuously re- duce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, to promote the transition to carbon neutrality and to create a framework for specific quantified targets and measures. Continental pursues a GHG reduction target covering Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. Progress is monitored through regularly reported emission values (see subsection Targets related to climate change). The process includes dedicated GHG data analyses at various organizational levels and – where neces- sary – updates to the target paths. The results are regularly pre- sented to the Sustainability Steering Committee. GHG emission data serves as the basis for the creation of an overarching Decar- bonization Roadmap 2040 (see subsection Key actions for target achievement), which provides a framework for implementing the necessary measures and is regularly updated based on actual emission values. Continuous calibration of the levers required to pursue the target path is a key element of the roadmap process. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 applies to the whole Conti- nental Group and is further operationalized in the group sectors through their own roadmaps for technology transition. Formalized regular exchange on best practices (e.g. by functions such as infra- structure and environment) supports the implementation of tech- nical solutions and the corresponding program management within Continental’s group sectors. The implementation of the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 is also supported by measures to optimize energy consumption and en- ergy costs. This also includes the expansion of capacities for the in- house generation of electricity from renewable sources as a substi- tute for the external purchase of green electricity (see subsection Key actions for target achievement). General increases in energy ef- ficiency (e.g. through LED lighting) are part of the continuous im- provement processes within the local environmental and energy management systems. Regarding the risk of a devaluation of its own real estate because of climate change mitigation regulations, Continental is striving to increase transparency regarding its real estate portfolio. To this end, a system that provides information on ESG-relevant real estate data (including the GHG emissions caused by the operation of the build- ings) was tested at some pilot locations and in some acquisition transactions in the reporting year."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 132 Responsibility for compliance with the relevant processes lies with Continental’s purchasing and supply chain management functions, which are supported by internal risk management. The processes are monitored as part of general business supervision at various or- ganizational levels. Management of the climate-related aspects of supply chain resili- ence and transition is integrated into the general processes for managing supply chain resilience. These processes are handled closely to the operational business and are integrated into the gen- eral practices regarding purchasing, supply chain management and risk management on different levels of the organization. Various as- pects are considered during the procurement process, including strategic factors such as security of supply in the event of extreme weather events, which could be exacerbated by climate change. Further information on the relevant processes can be found in the Report on risks and opportunities section of the management report. The processes are guided by a set of general rules for the related functions on different levels of the organization. The management approach is not based on a specific external set of rules. Close dialogue with customers and suppliers is a key element of the management approach. As the processes are implemented close to operational business, communication with internal stakeholders takes place mainly within the respective businesses. The primary form of external communication is close dialogue with customers and suppliers."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 133 Targets Related to Climate Change Following its sustainability ambition, Continental has set a public sus- tainability target (PST) related to climate change that aims at the re- duction of Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to an absolute value of 0.5 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent (million tCO2e) by 2035. The interim target for 2030 is to reduce Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to 0.7 million tCO2e. Both the main and the interim target are set as absolute values and measured in millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalents (million tCO2e). The formalized target commitment to reduce Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions is a key element of the corresponding management approach to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and the subsequent key actions. The transition towards and, in the end, the achievement of the target allows Continental to mitigate negative im- pacts and risks connected to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The target covers the combined Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. In view of the relatively low amount of remaining mar- ket-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (see subsection Key actions for tar- get achievement), the reduction of Scope 1 GHG emissions is a partic- ular focus and will contribute the major share to the GHG emissions reductions. The target value was defined in alignment with the guid- ance of the GHG Protocol on calculating Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions and includes the greenhouse gases de- scribed in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Consequently, the greenhouse gases cov- ered by the target and considered in the metrics are consistent with the limits of the greenhouse gas inventory. The scope of the main and interim targets extends to the Continental Group’s own operations. The original target trajectory was developed using the base year 2019. The originally publicly reported baseline value amounted to 3.2 million tCO2e for Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The chosen base year is representative in terms of external factors af- fecting the energy consumption and hence, GHG emissions. Due to a relevant change to the company structure in 2021 as well as the in- troduction of the market-based approach for the reporting of Scope 2 GHG emissions, a comparable reference value for the base year 2019 was re-modeled ex-post, and is estimated to around 2.8 million tCO2e. Continental points out that there are uncertainties connected to the data model. In 2024, by decision of the Sustainabil- ity Steering Committee, the target was reconfirmed without changes to the target value, target pathway or target year. The baseline values for the reconfirmed target can be seen in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” The metric com- plies with the ESRS requirements for the calculation of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Continental is of the opinion that the set Scope 1 and Scope 2 target is based on scientific evidence. It should be noted that relevant uncer- tainty remains regarding the breakdown of the global reduction path- way in line with the 1.5°C scenario down to the company level. Greater uncertainties are also associated with the allocation of the CO2 budgets to the various industrial sectors and the extent to which of so-called negative emissions (CO2 removals) can be used if the 1.5°C path is exceeded to a limited extent. Continental’s climate target was reviewed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2020, using the original base year 2019 as a benchmark. A re-validation by the SBTi did not take place. Based on the Continental’s ambition to achieve carbon neutrality in own operations by 2040 at the latest and on the applied methodology, linear derivations of the required emis- sions values for the year 2030 were validated and confirmed as being compliant with the Paris Agreement. Considering the modeled refer- ence value and the updated pathway, Continental views its emissions reduction target to be still in line with the level of ambition of the origi- nal reduction pathway. The target setting followed the methodology of an absolute reduction as described by SBTi in the framework “Foundations of Science-based Target Setting (Version 1.0)”, including the defined underlying climate and policy scenarios. The derivation was based on a cross-sector emissions pathway. No anticipated external developments and their impact on green- house gas emissions were explicitly considered when setting the tar- get. Significant changes to Continental’s company structure, product portfolio or production volumes might lead to the adjustment of the target values. In 2024, no changes were made to the target values. When setting the target, Continental considered the interests of differ- ent stakeholders (such as customers, authorities), e.g. by applying the SBTi methodology."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 130 The framework for the management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions is set by internal climate protection rules, the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 and the sustainability ambition. Within the management approach and local management systems, the standards ISO 14001 (Environmental management systems) and ISO 50001 (Energy management systems) are applied. The calculation and reporting of GHG emissions are carried out in ac- cordance with the standards set by the GHG protocol. Furthermore, multiple climate change mitigation agreements (e.g. the Paris Agreement) as well as regulatory requirements (e.g. the EU Emis- sions Trading System) serve as references. The management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emis- sions considers the global interest in climate change mitigation of various stakeholders. The expectations and requirements of cus- tomers and capital markets to make a positive contribution to cli- mate change mitigation through their value chains are at the fore- front. Communication of the management approach takes place inter- nally via various conferences and publications on the company- wide intranet. The management approach is communicated to ex- ternal stakeholders by means of sustainability reporting, press re- leases, dialogues with customers and investors, as well as trade fairs. Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition The management approach for Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition aims to support Continental on its path to car- bon neutrality along the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. As described in the IROs (see subsection Material impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change), Continental operates in in- dustries that are undergoing major changes. The main objective of the management approach is to successfully steer own operations, taking into account the different transformation speeds of our cus- tomers, sectors and markets. The management approach encompasses the entire Continental Group, its global portfolio and covers all 15 categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol. The focus here is on the most relevant categories associated with the use phase of the products sold (category 11) and the carbon backpack. It in- cludes especially purchased goods and services (category 1), capi- tal goods (category 2) and emissions at the end of the life cycle (category 12). Steering and adaptation of the respective portfolio take place in the responsible business functions, e.g. research and development (R&D), product design, supply chain management and purchasing. These are supported by the sustainability departments. Oversight of the portfolio management is exercised by the Executive Board through, for example, the strategy process. The management approach comprises processes to create trans- parency, identify levers and implement relevant measures. The basis for the management of Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resil- ience and transition is the transparency with regard to the 15 cate- gories of Scope 3 GHG emissions and our portfolio of zero-tailpipe- emission vehicles. Levers to reduce emissions are identified on a continuous basis in the respective processes, with a focus on the use phase and the carbon backpack. The mitigation of material risks and impacts from the use phase of products is primarily related to managing the portfolio resilience and transition in the respective businesses. Important related pro- cesses are market monitoring, optimization of R&D activities, active portfolio management and a close dialogue with customers. This also includes regular assessments of the transferability of the port- folio on the path to carbon neutrality. For Scope 3 GHG backpack emissions, the core resource inflow as- pects related to the purchased goods, services and capital goods are mainly managed within the relevant functions. The correspond- ing management practices include, for example, selection of less emission-intensive materials and suppliers, the active supplier de- velopment and the commitment of suppliers to climate change mit- igation. These practices are integrated in our general procurement and supplier management processes, which are managed by the purchasing functions. In addition, product design that focuses on reducing the carbon footprint of products is another measure that is handled by the product development and R&D departments. Aspects in connection with the emissions at the end of the life cy- cle are mainly managed within product design processes, e.g. by fo- cusing on easier disassembly for reutilization and developing less emission-intensive recycling methods (see Resource use and circu- lar economy (ESRS E5) section). Further potential for minimizing emissions lies in optimizing the transportation of goods, business travel and employee commuting as well as other processes in con- nection with the carbon backpack. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the dif- ferent business process, further internal rules apply directly or indi- rectly addressing climate change mitigation. In addition, the management approach is based on the GHG Proto- col and related standards (e.g. Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) ac- counting and reporting standard) as external frameworks for CO2 emissions accounting. The management approach and associated measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and the requests of investors. Consultations and dialogue with suppliers are key elements for the implementation of carbon backpack-related levers."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 131 Continental communicates its approach to managing Scope 3 emissions as well as portfolio resilience and transition externally through reporting, trade fairs, press releases and investor dialogue. Internal communication takes place via various channels such as sustainability and product-related conferences, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Climate change adaptation To mitigate the risks of a devaluation of the real estate portfolio and of rising operating costs and investments due to physical climate change, Continental has established management approaches that cover the processes for selecting real estate and company loca- tions as well as technical measures for adapting new production sites and measures aimed at changing the behavior of employees. These approaches cover Continental’s own operations. The focus is on assets that may bear certain limitations in terms of their adapta- bility and on potential new locations. The primary responsibility for the implementation of the risk miti- gation measures lies with the operational business, supported by various functions within the organization, e.g. real estate manage- ment, Continental insurance services as well as technical depart- ments specialized in buildings and infrastructure. When selecting new operating sites, Continental considers, among other things, risks associated with existing exposure to extreme weather events, which could be exacerbated by physical climate change. To avoid these potential new risks by adding new locations to the real estate portfolio, Continental has included corresponding requirements in its guidelines for the selection process for new lo- cations. The aim of these requirements is to gain knowledge about the exposure of assets considered to a variety of weather events and other natural disasters and to incorporate the results of the as- sessment in the final decision. In the existing real estate portfolio, the climate conditions are moni- tored at the respective locations. As part of the improvement and optimization of production processes and working conditions, the sites assess cost-efficient options for heating, cooling and ventila- tion case-by-case, considering the potential for reducing energy costs and other operating costs, which is particularly relevant in re- lation to risks associated with long-term climate change (such as rises in temperature). Respective measures are implemented locally within regular site management processes and in alignment with the centrally supporting departments. An additional lever for curbing the increasing operating costs is to raise employee’s awareness of the impact that individual behavior patterns have on the development of the overall energy demand. The implementation of this lever includes, for example, various training courses and campaigns promoting the importance of the responsible use of energy to reduce the costs related to heating, cooling, and ventilation. In addition, risk reduction regarding certain natural hazards and ex- treme weather events, considering the given current exposure, is part of the location-related actuarial risk management process with the resulting organizational and technical measures. Responsibility for implementing these measures lies with the operating business. The selection process for new locations and the management of the real estate portfolio follow the general internal rules. Conti- nental also has its own requirements for building construction and operation, which consider factors such as insulation, for example. In addition, the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 described in the management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions pro- vides a supporting set of rules for reducing the costs of cooling, heating, and ventilation. The management approach relies on international standards ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 related to energy management and the technical requirements of the buildings, including the consideration of local regulatory requirements. In the processes of implementation of the management approach regarding climate change adaptation, especially the interests of Continental's employees regarding working conditions (e.g. temper- ature and fresh air) at the relevant locations are considered. Communication with employees generally takes place at location level. Detailed information on the general forms of engagement and communication with employees are included in the Own work- force (ESRS S1) section. Supply chain resilience and transition With the management approach for supply chain resilience and transition, Continental aims to ensure continuity in the supply chains, prevent interruptions and successfully reduce the cost pres- sure associated with the transition. In this connection, Continental strives to strengthen the overall resilience of the supply chain and thus to be prepared to manage the risks that arise in certain supply chains in the medium and long term. The management approach for supply chain resilience and transi- tion focuses on the Continental Group’s upstream value chain, and particularly on the direct supplier base. There are no geographical restrictions or product group limitations."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 140 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions in tCO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions — — 99,418,244 — — — — — 1. Purchased goods and services — — 14,270,642 — — — — — 2. Capital goods — — 826,610 — — — — — 3. Energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) — — 458,530 — — — — — 4. Upstream transportation and distribution — — 977,819 — — — — — 5. Waste generated in operations — — 32,368 — — — — — 6. Business travel — — 64,428 — — — — — 7. Employee commuting — — 206,684 — — — — — 8. Upstream leased assets — — 0 — — — — — 9. Downstream transportation and distribution — — 304,692 — — — — — 10. Processing of sold products — — 51,558 — — — — — 11. Use of sold products — — 78,510,936 — — — — — 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products — — 3,663,651 — — — — — 13. Downstream leased assets — — 1,603 — — — — — 14. Franchises — — 23,742 — — — — — 15. Investments — — 24,982 — — — — — Overarching definitions and assumptions: - Scope 3 GHG emissions are calculated in alignment with the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standards 2011 and the supplement standards. Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods Total calculated gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions - Total of categories (1) to (15). Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – purchased goods and services - Purchased goods and services relate to the extraction, production and transportation of goods purchased by the company in the reporting year. Only the goods and services relevant for category 1 according to the GHG Protocol are considered, including all upstream emissions (cradle-to-gate). - Emissions for goods are calculated on a weight basis and for services on a cost basis. The emission factors of Sphera Solutions GmbH or internally determined group sector-specific and business area-specific GHG factors are used to calculate the emissions. - For purchased product groups for which not all weight data is available, the missing proportion is extrapolated using the average method. The expenditures for services are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. Within this expenditure-based method, the data is extrapolated for a small share. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – capital goods - Capital goods that are purchased in the reporting year are considered. - The expenditures for capital goods are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. As part of this expenditure-based method, the data for a small share is extrapolated. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scopes 1 and 2) - Energy- and fuel-related activities are defined as extraction, production, transportation, and transportation losses of purchased fuels and energy that are not covered by Scope 1 or Scope 2. - For energy consumption, the specific emission factors from DEFRA are used within the framework of an average data method. - The country-specific power grid emission factors are calculated based on the DEFRA calculation method. For this category, well-to-tank emission factors are considered. - An average transmission loss of 5 % as recommended by DEFRA for steam and district heat is applied. - In the case of renewable electricity, it is assumed that the mix consists of 50 % photovoltaics and 50 % wind power. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream transportation and distribution - Upstream transportation and distribution are defined as the transportation of goods from direct suppliers to the company as well as within the company and to the customer, if paid for by the company and using third-party vehicles and facilities, including emissions from transportation services. - For this category, average data, costs and GHG data from service providers are applied using the distance-based method, with the missing share extrapolated. - Apart from CO2 data from service providers, the emissions for each mode of transport (road, rail, sea, and air) were determined through calculations, whereby a small proportion of the transport modes are estimated. - The basis for calculation includes logistics expenses, weight distance and transport equipment multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH or DEFRA. - The emissions of the ContiTech group sector are primarily calculated based on the GHG data from service providers. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – waste generated in operations - Waste generation is multiplied by specific emission factors from DEFRA using an average data method for different waste categories, only considering emissions associated with landfill sites and incinerators. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – business travel - Travel booking service providers report GHG emissions for business trips. Hotel overnight stays are included as optional data. The various travel options are also considered and calculated. - Some of these external primary data refer to emission factors from DEFRA or vehicle manufacturers. - Business travel that may not have been booked through these service providers is considered by an estimate based on an expert assumption. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – employee commuting - Daily commuting time and modes of transport are based on an external global survey. - For this average-data method, the emissions are calculated on the basis of the estimated commuting distance, effective number of working days and the number of employees together with the DEFRA emission factors."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 141 Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream leased assets - Continental AG is using management control as a consolidation approach. Therefore, there are no Scope 3 emissions allocated to leased assets. These are only reported under Scopes 1 and 2. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – downstream transportation and distribution - Downstream transportation and distribution are defined as emissions from the transportation and distribution of products after the point of sale, including retail and storage. - The logistics paid for by the customers are extrapolated from Continental’s own outbound logistics emissions from “Upstream transportation and distribution”, based on the share of selfpickers determined by total sales or product weight. - The emission factors from the “Upstream transportation and distribution” category are applied. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – processing of products sold - Processing of sold products covers the processing of intermediate products sold in the reporting year to downstream companies. - For the Automotive and ContiTech group sectors, the calculation only considers emissions that are related to the material handling and general assembly stages of Continental products. Taking the product weight sold and the average vehicle weight based on market data, a virtual vehicle quantity is modeled in this average-data method. This virtual vehicle quantity is multiplied by the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions per vehicle manufactured by selected automotive manufacturers. - The calculation model used in the Tires group sector considers the energy consumption per tire assembly, which was determined by measurements and calculations for passenger car and truck tires in various processing steps. - The calculation relates exclusively to Continental’s vehicle business. The industrial business within the ContiTech group sector and the trading business of the Tires and Automotive group sectors are not included, as these emissions are not considered relevant in terms of their magnitude. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – use of sold products - This category includes the indirect emissions from the ContiTech and Tires group sectors during the use phase, which are optional to be reported according to the GHG Protocol. For the Automotive group sector, some products, particularly electronic products, consume electricity during their use phase and could be classified as direct emissions from the use phase. For this category, tank-to-wheel emission factors are used. - Indirect emissions in the retail business of the Automotive group sector and parts of the specialty tires, non-tire products and products in the retail business of Tires group sector as well as the industrial business of the ContiTech group sector, except for the conveyor belt business, are not included in the calculation. - For the Automotive and ContiTech group sectors, the calculation method is based on the expected product service life as stated by selected automotive manufacturers and the sold product weight, applying average-data methods with emission factors from ICCT and DEFRA. - To calculate ContiTech group sector conveyor belt use phase emissions, an average belt weight, related idle power load, belt runtime per year and lifetime are assessed based on internal data and expert assessments. - The Tires group sector calculation model is based on tire-industry aligned “Product Category Rules” (PCR). The energy consumption of sold tires is calculated by considering rolling resistance and acceleration resistance. - Furthermore, fuel-specific emission factors from DEFRA, which are based on the PCR powertrain mix in the respective markets, are used for the Tires group sector. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – end-of-life treatment of sold products - Waste disposal and treatment of sold products at the end of their life cycle are considered. - The weight of the sold products is multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH in accordance with the disposal and recycling type. In the absence of weight information for individual product groups, emissions are calculated based on information on purchased goods. - Internal expert assessments and industrial data are used in the classification of the disposal and recycling type. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – downstream leased assets - Downstream leased assets are defined as the operation of assets owned by Conti- nental that are leased to other companies during the reporting year, excluding those that are included in the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reported by the lessor. - This category is calculated using an average-data method. - The size of the leased assets is multiplied by the country- and asset-specific emission factors from PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials). - The leased equipment (e.g. machinery) are multiplied by a specific emission factor from DEFRA. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – franchises - Using an average-data method, the number of franchise locations is multiplied by the internally determined energy consumption and the specific emission factors from DEFRA. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – investments - For this category, emissions are calculated using an average-data method. - The sales of at-equity-accounted investees in financial reporting are multiplied by the portion of Continental’s financial contribution with own GHG emissions (calculated based on Continental’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) per euro of sales. - In cases where sales figures are not available, GHG emissions are extrapolated based on the number of reporting companies."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 136 Capital expenditures and operating expenditures for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change OpEx for key actions 2024 OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 5 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Operating expenditures (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Planned OpEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 28 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Operating expenditures (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets related climate change are considered. CapEx for key actions 2024 CapEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Investments (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Planned CapEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned CapEx key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 13 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Investments (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Interrelation CapEx and OpEx Information on capital expenditures (CapEx) can be found in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The infor- mation refers to capital expenditure in the intangible assets (Note 13), property, plant and equipment (Note 14), leases (Note 15) and investment property (Note 16) presented in the notes to the con- solidated financial statements. Continental does not report any taxonomy-aligned economic activi- ties and consequently no capital expenditure plan in accordance with European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. The CapEx for key actions to implement the targets in connection with climate change mitigation mainly fall under taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure. Operating expenditure in accordance with the Commission Dele- gated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 relate to the total of mainte- nance costs, building refurbishment measures and research and development costs. The key actions for implementing the targets related to climate change are defined differently."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 137 Transition Plan for Climate Change Mitigation Continental’s partially formalized transition plan covers all relevant impacts, risks and opportunities and consists of a combination of ambitions, management approaches, targets, and key actions. Continental’s management approach to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emis- sions, the corresponding target and the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 form the basis for the transition plan for climate change miti- gation in own operations. Furthermore, the management ap- proaches to Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition, are highly important for Continental’s transition towards carbon neutrality. The key elements of the transition plan, such as the target (see sub- section Targets related to climate change), the key actions (see sub- section Key actions for target achievement) and the management approaches (see subsections Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy) have been approved by the Executive Board of the Continental Group. Continental is of the opinion that the reduction target for Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions as one of the key ele- ments of the transition plan is in line with the Paris Agreement and a 1.5°C pathway (see subsection Targets related to climate change). Continental has no knowledge of being exempt from the EU Paris- aligned benchmarks. To achieve the set GHG emission reduction target, Continental has identified two primary decarbonization levers (see subsection Tar- gets related to climate change), which are addressed by the de- fined actions (see subsection Key actions for target achievement). Furthermore, levers for Scope 3 emissions are operationalized by the described management approaches. For a detailed description of the actions and associated metrics that provide information regarding the progress of the implementa- tion of the transition plan, see subsection Key actions for target achievement. As part of the IRO assessment (see subsection Overview of mate- rial impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section), Continental analyzed the potential locked-in GHG emissions in the key assets. The conclusion from the analysis was that, due to their insignificance, they do not jeopardize the achieve- ment of the defined GHG emissions reduction target and do not foster any transition risks. The identified levers for achieving the emissions reduction target are applicable to all assets and are in line with the overarching ambition of achieving carbon neutrality in own operations by 2040. The sustainability strategy and Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 are integral parts of the overall business strategy and play a key role in transitioning to a more sustainable business model. When- ever implementation of the corresponding actions requires sub- stantial financial funding, it is reflected in the financial planning and budgeting processes accordingly. CapEx and OpEx for key actions 2024 Total amount of CapEx and OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 50 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric only covers the key actions and no other elements of the transition plan. - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement targets related to climate change are included. Currently, Continental’s transition plan does not provide for a port- folio transition with the aim of meeting the criteria set out in the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 regarding tax- onomy-aligned economic activities. In addition, Continental is not reporting any taxonomy-aligned economic activities for 2024."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 138 Internal CO2 Pricing System According to Continental’s interpretation of the regulatory require- ments of the ESRS regarding internal CO2 pricing systems, such a mechanism is not used at Continental. To incentivize the transition to carbon neutrality, Continental has created the option for its legal entities to take internal CO2 shadow prices into account as a sup- porting factor in investment decision-making processes. The sys- tem has a non-binding character. The companies decide inde- pendently whether to include the optional CO2 shadow price for certain investment projects as an additional factor for calculating the internal rate of return (IRR) which is the steering-relevant KPI. The optional shadow price is determined based on Continental’s ex- pectations regarding the future development of external CO2 prices. Due to specifics of the non-binding character and subse- quently the limited application scope, estimates on the share of GHG emissions covered by the CO2 pricing system are not repre- sentative. Metrics Related to Climate Change Gross Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions and total GHG emissions Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year (2019) 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Calculated linear reduction rate per year, in % Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in million tCO2e 2.791 — 0.833 — — 0.700 0.500 6.25 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Gross GHG emissions from Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 as shown in the following table are considered. - The following greenhouse gases are covered: carbon dioxide (CO2); methane (CH4); nitrous oxide (N2O); sulfur hexafluoride (SF6); nitrogen trifluoride (NF3); hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); perfluorocarbons (PFCs). - The calculation is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies set out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The emissions from the base year 2019 were recalculated based on organizational changes and adjustments to the definition of the indicator. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 139 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 671,731 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 671,731 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading systems, in % — — 19.4 — — — — — Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 1,424,774 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 1,424,774 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 161,504 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 161,504 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Percentage of energy purchased with contractual instruments, in % — — 84.7 — — — — — Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Emissions factors for refrigerants in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2024/573 of the European Parliament and of the Council from February 7, 2024 on fluorinated greenhouse gases are considered. These are based on the IPCC 4 and not on the more recent IPCC 6, which does not result in any significant effects. - Scope 1 comprises emissions from the combustion of energy sources in own processes. Emission factors of IEA Static, GHG Protocol and DEFRA are applied. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 1 emissions of the relevant fully consolidated companies. Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 1 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading systems - The EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) and the Shanghai Pilot ETS are considered. - Scope 1 GHG emissions from the entire location that fall under these emissions trading systems are considered. Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Average electricity grid emissions factors by country are applied. These come from IEA Static, GHG Protocol and DEFRA. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 2 location-based emissions of its relevant fully consolidated companies. Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 2 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Gross Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Contract-specific emission factors are applied. - Emissions from steam and district heat are calculated using confirmed emission factors from local energy suppliers. If these factors are not available, location-based emission factors (see Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions) are used. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 2 location-based emissions of its relevant fully consolidated companies. Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 2 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Percentage of energy purchased with contractual instruments - Energy purchased using contractual instruments (on-site PPA, off-site PPA, Green Tariff, Energy Attribute Certificates) is considered. - The specification represents the share of energy purchased with contractual instruments in relation to the total amount of purchased energy with relevance for Scope 2. - The data is collected by the individual company locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 140 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions in tCO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions — — 99,418,244 — — — — — 1. Purchased goods and services — — 14,270,642 — — — — — 2. Capital goods — — 826,610 — — — — — 3. Energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) — — 458,530 — — — — — 4. Upstream transportation and distribution — — 977,819 — — — — — 5. Waste generated in operations — — 32,368 — — — — — 6. Business travel — — 64,428 — — — — — 7. Employee commuting — — 206,684 — — — — — 8. Upstream leased assets — — 0 — — — — — 9. Downstream transportation and distribution — — 304,692 — — — — — 10. Processing of sold products — — 51,558 — — — — — 11. Use of sold products — — 78,510,936 — — — — — 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products — — 3,663,651 — — — — — 13. Downstream leased assets — — 1,603 — — — — — 14. Franchises — — 23,742 — — — — — 15. Investments — — 24,982 — — — — — Overarching definitions and assumptions: - Scope 3 GHG emissions are calculated in alignment with the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standards 2011 and the supplement standards. Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods Total calculated gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions - Total of categories (1) to (15). Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – purchased goods and services - Purchased goods and services relate to the extraction, production and transportation of goods purchased by the company in the reporting year. Only the goods and services relevant for category 1 according to the GHG Protocol are considered, including all upstream emissions (cradle-to-gate). - Emissions for goods are calculated on a weight basis and for services on a cost basis. The emission factors of Sphera Solutions GmbH or internally determined group sector-specific and business area-specific GHG factors are used to calculate the emissions. - For purchased product groups for which not all weight data is available, the missing proportion is extrapolated using the average method. The expenditures for services are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. Within this expenditure-based method, the data is extrapolated for a small share. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – capital goods - Capital goods that are purchased in the reporting year are considered. - The expenditures for capital goods are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. As part of this expenditure-based method, the data for a small share is extrapolated. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scopes 1 and 2) - Energy- and fuel-related activities are defined as extraction, production, transportation, and transportation losses of purchased fuels and energy that are not covered by Scope 1 or Scope 2. - For energy consumption, the specific emission factors from DEFRA are used within the framework of an average data method. - The country-specific power grid emission factors are calculated based on the DEFRA calculation method. For this category, well-to-tank emission factors are considered. - An average transmission loss of 5 % as recommended by DEFRA for steam and district heat is applied. - In the case of renewable electricity, it is assumed that the mix consists of 50 % photovoltaics and 50 % wind power. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream transportation and distribution - Upstream transportation and distribution are defined as the transportation of goods from direct suppliers to the company as well as within the company and to the customer, if paid for by the company and using third-party vehicles and facilities, including emissions from transportation services. - For this category, average data, costs and GHG data from service providers are applied using the distance-based method, with the missing share extrapolated. - Apart from CO2 data from service providers, the emissions for each mode of transport (road, rail, sea, and air) were determined through calculations, whereby a small proportion of the transport modes are estimated. - The basis for calculation includes logistics expenses, weight distance and transport equipment multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH or DEFRA. - The emissions of the ContiTech group sector are primarily calculated based on the GHG data from service providers. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – waste generated in operations - Waste generation is multiplied by specific emission factors from DEFRA using an average data method for different waste categories, only considering emissions associated with landfill sites and incinerators. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – business travel - Travel booking service providers report GHG emissions for business trips. Hotel overnight stays are included as optional data. The various travel options are also considered and calculated. - Some of these external primary data refer to emission factors from DEFRA or vehicle manufacturers. - Business travel that may not have been booked through these service providers is considered by an estimate based on an expert assumption. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – employee commuting - Daily commuting time and modes of transport are based on an external global survey. - For this average-data method, the emissions are calculated on the basis of the estimated commuting distance, effective number of working days and the number of employees together with the DEFRA emission factors."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 142 Total GHG emissions, in t CO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total location-based GHG emissions — — 101,514,749 — — — — — Total market-based GHG emissions — — 100,251,479 — — — — — Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total location-based GHG emissions include the GHG emissions from Scope 1, location-based Scope 2, and Scope 3. - The total market-based GHG emissions are composed of Scope 1, market-based Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. - The figures are calculated in accordance with the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Scope 3 emissions using primary data 2024 Share of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data, in % 0.01 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Only emissions for which primary data were available in the form of an externally verified product carbon footprint are considered. - Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated based on primary data are considered. These are set in relation to the total Scope 3 GHG emissions. Biogenic CO2 emissions 2024 Biogenic direct emissions not included in Scope 1, in million tCO2e 0.037 Biogenic location-based indirect emissions not included in Scope 2, in million tCO2e 0.042 Biogenic market-based indirect emissions not included in Scope 2, in million tCO2e 0.000 Biogenic indirect emissions not included in Scope 3, in million tCO2e 0.859 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Biogenic Scope 1 emissions - Emissions from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass, including solid biomass, biomethane, liquid biofuels and green hydrogen, are considered. - The base data for the calculation of biogenic Scope 1 emissions are considered in accordance with the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. In contrast, this metric only considers CO2 emissions that are not included in Scope 1 GHG emissions. - Emission factors from DEFRA are used for the calculation. Biogenic emissions in relation to location-based and market-based Scope 2 emissions - Continental only considers emissions from electricity, steam, and district heat under market-based Scope 2 emissions to be biogenic if sufficient evidence is available. - Biogenic location-based Scope 2 emissions are modeled and extrapolated based on electricity purchases and external data sources (German Association of the Automotive Industry, VDA) for the specific share of biomass and biogas in the electricity mix. - The figures are calculated in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Biogenic Scope 3 emissions - Biogenic emissions resulting from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass are considered, including organic non-fossil material of biological origin, biofuels, biogenic gases and biogenic waste. Therefore, only emissions of the category Scope 3 – End-of-life treatment of sold products – are considered, through incineration of biogenic substances in the products. - All other Scope 3 categories according to the GHG Protocol have not been included in the calculation for biogenic Scope 3 emissions. - Scope 3 emissions are calculated based on the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 3 GHG emissions. - The calculation is based on the purchased quantity of natural rubber according to Scope 3 category 1 and is equivalent to the quantities from Scope 3 category 12. The proportion of biogenic CO2 emissions is calculated based on calculated factors for material disposal through incineration and material proportions of biological origin in the products."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 135 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has defined concrete key actions to achieve its Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction target set for 2035 and to further foster the transition to carbon neutrality. Corresponding decarbonization measures are embedded in the op- erational activities and are gradually being developed and imple- mented by the individual legal entities. The decentralized approach pursued leads to a large number of measures that are completed through specific projects with individual completion timelines rang- ing from short-term to long-term. Continental’s climate change mitigation measures cover all types of activities in own operations. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 introduced in 2021 is the in- ternal set of rules for determining the key actions required to achieve the emissions reduction target. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 focuses on the most im- portant levers (see subsection Targets related to climate change) which are further operationalized through concrete actions. Continued purchase of green electricity Continental purchases electricity solely from renewable energy sources. In doing so, Continental makes use of green electricity con- tracts, power purchase agreements and other contractual instru- ments. For volumes of purchased electricity that are not covered by contractual instruments, Continental purchases energy attribute cer- tificates that comply with the specified quality criteria. This key ac- tion is implemented by the respective legal entities in close coopera- tion with the central purchasing and environmental departments who ensure a holistic approach and full coverage of the externally purchased electricity volumes through corresponding instruments. Technological transformation Technological transformation takes place within the responsible le- gal entities supported by central functions (e.g. operations or infra- structure). As part of group sector-specific roadmap implementa- tion programs, suitable concrete measures for the respective loca- tions and production processes, as well as the sequence of their im- plementation at location level are analyzed and decided upon. At the tire plant in Lousado, Portugal, for example, an electric boiler was put into operation in 2024 to generate steam required for the production processes. Gas, which was previously used as an energy source for steam generation, was replaced by green electricity. Similar projects regarding the levers identified for target achieve- ment are implemented at various locations if this is technically and economically feasible. Selection of the projects is part of the gen- eral investment process applying generally applicable criteria for decision-making as well as the allocation of capital. The investment budget is determined as part of financial planning. In the event of a positive investment decision, the necessary financial resources are thus made available for the project. The metrics for the achieved and expected GHG emissions reduc- tions as a result of the implementation of such projects are set out in the tables below. Achieved GHG reduction 2024 Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction achieved, in million tCO2e 0.217 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as the difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the base year of the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 (2021) and the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Expected GHG reduction 2024 Expected Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction, in million tCO2e 0.333 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year and the target value for Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions in 2035 (see subsection Targets related to climate change). - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 145 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through CO2 credits The disclosures on the removal, reduction, and storage of GHG emissions in accordance with ESRS by means of CO2 credits do not apply to Continental in this fiscal year. As part of our immediate cli- mate change mitigation program Net|Zero|Now, we offer customers and Continental’s group sectors an additional component to sup- port their respective climate strategies. The program is both offered externally and used internally, e.g. for events. Continental is working with partners on certified ecosystem restoration, especially on re- forestation projects, to remove CO2 from the atmosphere and thereby ease the global CO2 budget through CO2 removals. The de- fined CO2 removals are calculated individually within the group sec- tors. The amount of negative emissions used under Net|Zero|Now is determined and documented accordingly within the group sec- tors. Continental has purchased a contingent of certified projects, which is gradually being utilized. A systematic process is then used at Group level to ensure that the corresponding number of certifi- cates issued, canceled, and thus retired are available for the quan- tity used by the group sectors in the respective fiscal year and that these are not used more than once in the internal allocation across fiscal years and group sectors. Purchased CO2 credits originate from projects certified against internationally approved standards (Gold Standard, VCS, Plan Vivo). Moreover, Continental ensures that it finances projects in different geographic areas. In addition, through questionnaires related to a specific project, we ensure that the CO2 credits meet internal quality criteria. The credits used within the framework of Net|Zero|Now program were procured in previous years and canceled in external registers at the time of purchase. No further purchases, including cancela- tion, were made in external registers in the fiscal 2024, and no spe- cific purchases or cancelations were planned as at December 31, 2024. GHG removals as part of the Net|Zero|Now program 2024 Total used GHG removals from climate change mitigation projects within the Net|Zero|Now program, in million tCO2e 0.006 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Continental’s Net|Zero|Now program allows its business partners to increase their contribution in the course of the transition to a climate-friendly economy. When purchasing Continental’s goods, the customers can opt to participate in the program. If they do so, purchased CO2 credits from removal projects are deemed as consumed and become unavailable for other purposes. - CO2 credits from projects that have been consumed as part of the Net|Zero|Now program in the reporting year are included. - One CO2 credit corresponds to 1 metric ton of CO2e. - The metric is entity-specific. Emission-free mobility and industries Allocated business with zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles 2024 Allocated business with zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles, in € millions 2,066 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The allocated business with zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles comprises all business with products for vehicles transporting goods and people. - The business can be allocated via the vehicle manufacturer, the vehicle platform or the product specification. - The calculation was carried out using internal planning data for sales, external data for production quantities and engine type from IHS and S&P as well as experts' assessments when necessary. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 146 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Pollution Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to pollution. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are rele- vant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, the de- scriptions are presented from a perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Environmental protection in own operations › In 2024, individual local environmental incidents related to minor spills such as leakages were recorded in own operations. Beyond these spills, potential environmental incidents could also lead to significant local pollution if not contained adequately and if occur- ring at several sites simultaneously. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 17) Environmental protection in the supply chain › Continental has recorded individual negative impacts related to pollution by direct suppliers in 2024. Beyond the confirmed inci- dents, Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries which po- tentially have significant negative environmental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil (e.g. from manufacturing processes of basic materials). (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 18). › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers operate in industries and certain markets which might be subject › to major transformation and new regulatory requirements related to the pollution of air, water and soil (especially considering bans or restrictions of certain materials). This can in particular lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components and/or ser- vices in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 23) Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection › In the use phase of Continental’s products in vehicles and indus- trial applications, substantive direct and indirect air, water and soil emissions are generated, especially exhaust emissions of vehicles, tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust emissions. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 19) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where sub- stantive emissions to air, water and soil occur during the use phase of Continental’s products. In a scenario with steadily more stringent regulations, the risk of violating these regulations could increase significantly. Therefore, if not sufficiently anticipated and preventively managed, Continental could be exposed to sanc- tions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even busi- ness on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 22) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably, also because of regulatory requirements and market trends related to air, water and soil emissions (espe- cially considering restrictions of substances as well as non-tail- pipe-related emissions such as tire and road wear particles and brake dust). Given the broadness of Continental's portfolio, some product segments and the business with specific customer groups could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, lead to a significant loss in sales in the respective businesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 24) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because regulatory requirements and mar- ket trends related to air, water and soil emissions (e.g. stricter emission levels of vehicles). This can lead to changing demands of requirements for certain products and innovations of Conti- nental. If Continental is able to utilize these market drivers effec- tively, specific businesses (especially tires and brakes) can profit directly or indirectly from significant growth opportunities or even new business fields/models in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 27) Pollution (ESRS E2)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 147 Substances of concern and very high concern › Continental is engaged in specific types of operations which in- clude the handling and use of substances of concern and very high concern. If not managed adequately and cautiously, signifi- cant negative impacts on people and the environment are to be expected. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 20) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental's direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries and types of operations where substances of concern and of very high concern are handled and used. If not managed adequately and cautiously, significant nega- tive impacts on people and the environment related to the han- dling and use of substances of concern and very high concern are to be expected along the supply chain. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 21) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably due to market trends and regulatory re- quirements related to substances of concern (especially consider- ing the restriction of substances). Given the broadness of sub- stances used by Continental, some product segments could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could ex- ceed the potential speed of adaptation. This can, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respective busi- nesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 25) › Continental operates in industries where the responsible handling of substances of concern is relevant along the value chain. There- fore, if prevention and mitigation fail or severe incidents of non- compliance occur (e.g. exceeding thresholds or missing declara- tions), Continental could be exposed to sanctions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even business on hold for the re- spective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 26)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 148 Management Approaches to Pollution Prevention The management approaches relevant for managing the IROs re- garding pollution are related to environmental protection in own operations, environmental protection in the supply chain, product- related aspects regarding environmental protection, and sub- stances of concern and very high concern. Environmental protection in own operations Continental has introduced comprehensive environmental protec- tion measures and environmental management processes in own operations. These also include measures and processes to prevent or, if necessary, mitigate the identified potential negative impacts from possible releases into air, water and soil. As publicly stated in Continental’s policy on environment, safety and health (Environ- ment, Safety and Health Policy, “ESH Policy”), we conserve re- sources and prevent pollution caused by emission into the air, wa- ter and soil. Continental’s management approach for environmental protection measures covers own operations worldwide and is especially fo- cused on the production sites. Responsibility for the implementation of environmental protection measures and pollution prevention lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The internal framework for environmental protection is defined by the environmental depart- ments of Continental and supervised by the Executive Board and the group sector boards. The processes and monitoring regarding the prevention and con- tainment of environmental incidents are integrated into the overall environmental management system. The preventive measures are implemented on a site-specific basis and include, among others, emergency plans, site inspections by the local ESH managers as well as regular maintenance plans. Other measures are imple- mented where they are needed and include, for example, hazard- ous substance storage, excavation, separators, wastewater treat- ment and retention basins. The prevention and containment of environmental incidents or re- leases includes site-specific emergency plans that control and limit the impact on people and the environment in case of an actual re- lease. Continental’s environmental management framework, including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, consists of the public ESH Policy and the related environmental “responsible value chain commitments (RVC commitments)” as well as several internal rules at different levels of the organization. Continental’s environmental management including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, such as leakages, is based on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. Coverage with certified environmental management systems can be found in the corresponding metric in this section. Where relevant, local environmental management also includes a consultation with local stakeholders like authorities, employees or communities. Continental's ESH Policy as well as the associated environment-re- lated RVC commitments are communicated externally on our web- site. In addition, training materials, other guidance documents and emergency response plans are available for company-internal com- munication purposes. Environmental protection in the supply chain For environmental protection in the supply chain, Continental has defined a management approach to prevent and reduce potential negative environmental impacts related to pollutant emissions to air, water and soil in the supply chain. As stated in our Business Partner Code of Conduct and RVC commitments, Continental ex- pects its suppliers to maintain adequate environmental protection management procedures, including, but not limited to air quality, responsible chemical management, soil protection and the protec- tion of water bodies. Continental’s management approach applies to all of the purchas- ing activities of Continental and its subsidiaries worldwide. The fo- cus of the management approach is on the direct suppliers (includ- ing service providers), who in turn should pass on the requirements to their suppliers. Additional specifics of the management approach apply to the natural rubber supply chain including the deeper sup- ply chain in relation to natural rubber sourcing. See also the man- agement approach to responsible sourcing and upstream value chains in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. The management approach is primarily implemented by Conti- nental’s purchasing departments, which are supported by the envi- ronmental and sustainability functions. This is overseen by the Re- sponsible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS), including oversight by the Executive Board (see also the management ap- proach for workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). The RVCDDS comprises a variety of processes covering strategy development and implementation, regulations management, man- agement of potential impacts and incident management (including complaints) as well as training. A multi-stage process comprising three lines has been set up to control and oversee system effi- ciency: In terms of the supply chain, the first line comprises the im- plementation of operational tasks at the level of the individual pur- chasing functions. The second line, represented by non-operational governance departments and roles, oversees the system, roles and responsibilities as well as their effectiveness. The third line is repre- sented by the internal audit function which performs an independ- ent evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the RVCDDS."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 148 Management Approaches to Pollution Prevention The management approaches relevant for managing the IROs re- garding pollution are related to environmental protection in own operations, environmental protection in the supply chain, product- related aspects regarding environmental protection, and sub- stances of concern and very high concern. Environmental protection in own operations Continental has introduced comprehensive environmental protec- tion measures and environmental management processes in own operations. These also include measures and processes to prevent or, if necessary, mitigate the identified potential negative impacts from possible releases into air, water and soil. As publicly stated in Continental’s policy on environment, safety and health (Environ- ment, Safety and Health Policy, “ESH Policy”), we conserve re- sources and prevent pollution caused by emission into the air, wa- ter and soil. Continental’s management approach for environmental protection measures covers own operations worldwide and is especially fo- cused on the production sites. Responsibility for the implementation of environmental protection measures and pollution prevention lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The internal framework for environmental protection is defined by the environmental depart- ments of Continental and supervised by the Executive Board and the group sector boards. The processes and monitoring regarding the prevention and con- tainment of environmental incidents are integrated into the overall environmental management system. The preventive measures are implemented on a site-specific basis and include, among others, emergency plans, site inspections by the local ESH managers as well as regular maintenance plans. Other measures are imple- mented where they are needed and include, for example, hazard- ous substance storage, excavation, separators, wastewater treat- ment and retention basins. The prevention and containment of environmental incidents or re- leases includes site-specific emergency plans that control and limit the impact on people and the environment in case of an actual re- lease. Continental’s environmental management framework, including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, consists of the public ESH Policy and the related environmental “responsible value chain commitments (RVC commitments)” as well as several internal rules at different levels of the organization. Continental’s environmental management including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, such as leakages, is based on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. Coverage with certified environmental management systems can be found in the corresponding metric in this section. Where relevant, local environmental management also includes a consultation with local stakeholders like authorities, employees or communities. Continental's ESH Policy as well as the associated environment-re- lated RVC commitments are communicated externally on our web- site. In addition, training materials, other guidance documents and emergency response plans are available for company-internal com- munication purposes. Environmental protection in the supply chain For environmental protection in the supply chain, Continental has defined a management approach to prevent and reduce potential negative environmental impacts related to pollutant emissions to air, water and soil in the supply chain. As stated in our Business Partner Code of Conduct and RVC commitments, Continental ex- pects its suppliers to maintain adequate environmental protection management procedures, including, but not limited to air quality, responsible chemical management, soil protection and the protec- tion of water bodies. Continental’s management approach applies to all of the purchas- ing activities of Continental and its subsidiaries worldwide. The fo- cus of the management approach is on the direct suppliers (includ- ing service providers), who in turn should pass on the requirements to their suppliers. Additional specifics of the management approach apply to the natural rubber supply chain including the deeper sup- ply chain in relation to natural rubber sourcing. See also the man- agement approach to responsible sourcing and upstream value chains in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. The management approach is primarily implemented by Conti- nental’s purchasing departments, which are supported by the envi- ronmental and sustainability functions. This is overseen by the Re- sponsible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS), including oversight by the Executive Board (see also the management ap- proach for workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). The RVCDDS comprises a variety of processes covering strategy development and implementation, regulations management, man- agement of potential impacts and incident management (including complaints) as well as training. A multi-stage process comprising three lines has been set up to control and oversee system effi- ciency: In terms of the supply chain, the first line comprises the im- plementation of operational tasks at the level of the individual pur- chasing functions. The second line, represented by non-operational governance departments and roles, oversees the system, roles and responsibilities as well as their effectiveness. The third line is repre- sented by the internal audit function which performs an independ- ent evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the RVCDDS."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 148 Management Approaches to Pollution Prevention The management approaches relevant for managing the IROs re- garding pollution are related to environmental protection in own operations, environmental protection in the supply chain, product- related aspects regarding environmental protection, and sub- stances of concern and very high concern. Environmental protection in own operations Continental has introduced comprehensive environmental protec- tion measures and environmental management processes in own operations. These also include measures and processes to prevent or, if necessary, mitigate the identified potential negative impacts from possible releases into air, water and soil. As publicly stated in Continental’s policy on environment, safety and health (Environ- ment, Safety and Health Policy, “ESH Policy”), we conserve re- sources and prevent pollution caused by emission into the air, wa- ter and soil. Continental’s management approach for environmental protection measures covers own operations worldwide and is especially fo- cused on the production sites. Responsibility for the implementation of environmental protection measures and pollution prevention lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The internal framework for environmental protection is defined by the environmental depart- ments of Continental and supervised by the Executive Board and the group sector boards. The processes and monitoring regarding the prevention and con- tainment of environmental incidents are integrated into the overall environmental management system. The preventive measures are implemented on a site-specific basis and include, among others, emergency plans, site inspections by the local ESH managers as well as regular maintenance plans. Other measures are imple- mented where they are needed and include, for example, hazard- ous substance storage, excavation, separators, wastewater treat- ment and retention basins. The prevention and containment of environmental incidents or re- leases includes site-specific emergency plans that control and limit the impact on people and the environment in case of an actual re- lease. Continental’s environmental management framework, including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, consists of the public ESH Policy and the related environmental “responsible value chain commitments (RVC commitments)” as well as several internal rules at different levels of the organization. Continental’s environmental management including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, such as leakages, is based on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. Coverage with certified environmental management systems can be found in the corresponding metric in this section. Where relevant, local environmental management also includes a consultation with local stakeholders like authorities, employees or communities. Continental's ESH Policy as well as the associated environment-re- lated RVC commitments are communicated externally on our web- site. In addition, training materials, other guidance documents and emergency response plans are available for company-internal com- munication purposes. Environmental protection in the supply chain For environmental protection in the supply chain, Continental has defined a management approach to prevent and reduce potential negative environmental impacts related to pollutant emissions to air, water and soil in the supply chain. As stated in our Business Partner Code of Conduct and RVC commitments, Continental ex- pects its suppliers to maintain adequate environmental protection management procedures, including, but not limited to air quality, responsible chemical management, soil protection and the protec- tion of water bodies. Continental’s management approach applies to all of the purchas- ing activities of Continental and its subsidiaries worldwide. The fo- cus of the management approach is on the direct suppliers (includ- ing service providers), who in turn should pass on the requirements to their suppliers. Additional specifics of the management approach apply to the natural rubber supply chain including the deeper sup- ply chain in relation to natural rubber sourcing. See also the man- agement approach to responsible sourcing and upstream value chains in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. The management approach is primarily implemented by Conti- nental’s purchasing departments, which are supported by the envi- ronmental and sustainability functions. This is overseen by the Re- sponsible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS), including oversight by the Executive Board (see also the management ap- proach for workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). The RVCDDS comprises a variety of processes covering strategy development and implementation, regulations management, man- agement of potential impacts and incident management (including complaints) as well as training. A multi-stage process comprising three lines has been set up to control and oversee system effi- ciency: In terms of the supply chain, the first line comprises the im- plementation of operational tasks at the level of the individual pur- chasing functions. The second line, represented by non-operational governance departments and roles, oversees the system, roles and responsibilities as well as their effectiveness. The third line is repre- sented by the internal audit function which performs an independ- ent evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the RVCDDS."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 149 The operational tasks include specific preventive and remedial measures regarding the supply chain, e.g. alignment of procure- ment strategies and practices, definition of contractual agreements and implementation of control mechanisms as well as training of purchasers and suppliers. Selected suppliers are assessed on the basis of various criteria using self-assessment questionnaires ob- tained via the generally accepted sustainability platforms for our in- dustries, such as EcoVadis and NQC. In addition, selective on-site audits or other audit activities are also carried out, for example in relation to the existence of environmental management systems. As part of an annual review process, the Executive Board of Conti- nental AG is updated on the current status by Continental’s human rights officer and assesses the system’s effectiveness, adequacy and potential for improvement. The RVCDDS is additionally inte- grated into Continental’s overarching internal control system, the risk management system and compliance management system. The expectations of suppliers with regard to appropriate environ- mental protection also include the prevention of incidents and emergency situations. The outlined processes are defined by an environment-related RVC commitment. Further relevant rules of this internal framework in- clude dedicated rules for purchasing and the associated work in- structions, which guide the consistent application of the key pro- cesses in all of the company’s businesses and in supplier relations. Direct suppliers are guided by the binding Business Partner Code of Conduct (BPCoC), which also refers to the RVC commitments. For suppliers of natural rubber, Continental’s purchasing policy for sustainable natural rubber also applies. Continental's management approach to environmental protection is guided by Germany’s Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferket- tensorgfaltspflichtengesetz – LkSG) as well as other due diligence standards such as the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Guide- lines. The interests of stakeholders, such as customers and associations, are taken into account within the management processes. Continental communicates its management approach through its Public Policy Statement and externally published RVC commit- ments. Supplier training initiatives are also carried out to further promote awareness and shared responsibility across the entire value chain. In addition, direct suppliers are requested to sign the Business Partner Code of Conduct. Communication is therefore aimed at both stakeholders and suppliers. Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection Continental has anchored in its sustainability ambition to strive for emission-free mobility and industry together with its partners along the value chain by 2050 at the latest. In this context, “emission- free” means the complete mitigation of harmful emissions (such as greenhouse gases or nitrogen oxides (NOx)). It does not include harmless emissions like water vapor emissions, non-toxic, biode- gradable particle emissions or minimal noise emissions. Accordingly, Continental has implemented a specific management approach to support the transition of our industries, reduce nega- tive environmental impacts in the product use phase, ensure regu- latory compliance and at the same time support opportunities for growth in specific business activities. With regard to tire and road wear particles and brake dust in partic- ular, Continental is working on researching open issues relating to these non-tailpipe-related emissions and their generation, composi- tion, transport and fate in the environment. Continental is helping to expand the base of scientifically sound knowledge about the im- pacts on human health and the environment, as the impacts have still not been sufficiently researched. It should therefore be noted that, according to current knowledge, tire and road wear will always occur in order to enable controllable and safe acceleration and braking as well as stable cornering. Ef- forts are therefore being made to reduce wear particles from tires on the one hand, and to make them as environmentally friendly as possible on the other. The management approach focuses on products that contribute to the reduction of relevant emissions, in particular tailpipe emissions, tire and road wear particles and brake dust emissions. Responsibility for expanding the business with zero-tailpipe-emis- sion vehicles (ZTEV) and for the implementation of measures to re- duce emissions, compliance with legal requirements and economic aspects lies with the respective business. They are supported by various central departments, including product development, sus- tainability, technical compliance and quality. Oversight is ultimately provided by the group sector boards as well as the Executive Board of the Continental Group. The general processes of the management approach include, for example, market research, activities in the area of research and de- velopment, active portfolio management and close dialogue with customers – as also described in the Climate change (ESRS E1) sec- tion in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy under Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition. Increasing business with ZTEV components and systems contributes to reducing tailpipe emissions in the use phase."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 150 The management processes regarding zero tailpipe emissions such as tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust comprise, in particular, R&D activities and cooperations in industry associations and with universities, science and customers in order to continue expanding the comprehensive understanding of the generation of tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust and their behavior in the environment. This includes also working on international standards for the measurement of particulate matter, e.g. within the frame of the UNECE. One example of a cooperation in the area of tire and road wear particles is the joint research project between Continental, the University of Southern Denmark and the Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon to research the degradation of rubber polymers in the environment. Furthermore, in R&D and product development processes (e.g. the product life cycle management), Continental investigates and de- velops further technical developments and solutions designed to continuously reduce these emissions more and more, and to en- sure compliance with the increasingly stringent regulations. The product development processes also include working on the eco- nomic feasibility, market readiness and scaling of such solutions as well as the cooperation with customers, suppliers and other parties (e.g. universities). One example of basic research in the area of brake dust was the LOWBRASYS project, which was completed in 2019. The project assessed various technologies that could signifi- cantly reduce brake dust. With regard to tire and road wear particles, Continental’s develop- ment engineers and material experts are working, in particular, on modifying both the tire design and the composition of tire com- pounds in order to reduce the impacts on the environment without compromising on the safety-related properties of the tires. The pro- cesses are similar for brake dust particles, with material and prod- uct development also involving cooperation with the suppliers of the relevant components such as brake pads and brake discs. The compliance of products with applicable standards, customer requirements and regulations is also subject to Continental’s tech- nical compliance processes and quality management systems. Advances in these processes can also help Continental to generate competitive advantages in the medium term in a surrounding of changing product requirements, and to exploit growth and margin opportunities, particularly for components and systems for zero- tailpipe-emission vehicles and for tires and braking systems. As a result of the IROs, specific processes for incidents and emer- gency situations in the downstream value chain are not relevant. The management approaches are guided by Continental’s tech- nical compliance framework and the sustainability ambition. Fur- ther internal rules on specific business processes apply. Current and upcoming international technical standards, obliga- tions and regulations regarding pollution (e.g. Euro 7) are relevant and binding for Continental’s products and measurements (such as the UN Global Technical Regulation No. 24 for brake emissions). To ensure compliant products and to reduce pollution, Continental maintains active dialogue with stakeholders such as authorities, customers, science and industry associations, as well as industry associations and initiatives (such as the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA), the European Tyre & Rubber Manu- facturers Association (ETRMA), and the U.S. Tire Manufacturers As- sociation (USTMA)). Of particular note is the cooperation between tire manufacturers and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) on the subject of tire abrasion as part of the “Tire Industry Project” (TIP). One important element of the communication on topics regarding non-tailpipe-related emissions in the use phase is the joint commu- nication via industry projects (e.g. TIP) or associations. Substances of concern and very high concern Continental has implemented a management approach for sub- stances of concern and very high concern to ensure the safe usage of these chemicals, protect employees and environment and be compliant with regulations, and to gradually substitute them with more sustainable chemicals. As outlined in Continental’s sustainability ambition for “clean and safe factories” and in our ESH policy, preventive measures are taken, hazards are eliminated and risks are reduced. Our framework to substitute and minimize the use of substances of concern in own operations specifies that hazardous chemicals should be evaluated if a less hazardous alternative or substitute is available. The management approach regarding substances of concern in the supply chain is largely covered by the management approach for environmental protection in the supply chain. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct also includes the expectation that our business partners will manage all chemicals responsibly. Continental’s hazardous substances management covers own op- erations worldwide and is especially focused on production sites. It also partially encompasses aspects in the upstream and down- stream value chain. The management approach covers both sub- stances of concern and substances of very high concern."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 155 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has no locations in own operations that have a signifi- cant impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. Continental has no material negative impacts with regards to land degradation, desertification or soil sealing. Continental has no locations in the vicinity of habitats of endan- gered species that have significant negative impacts on them. Management Approaches to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has implemented management approaches that ad- dress the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems. The management approaches explicitly address the issue of defor- estation in the upstream value chain. The management approaches do not address sustainable practices in connection with the oceans or seas, as no associated material impacts, risks, dependencies or opportunities have been identified. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing and upstream value chain addresses two material drivers of biodi- versity loss in the supply chain: pollution and deforestation. For the pollution driver, Continental has implemented a manage- ment approach to avoid and reduce potential negative environ- mental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil in the supply chain. This management approach is de- scribed in the subsection Environmental protection in the supply chain in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section. In addition, Continental has implemented a management approach to prevent the loss of biodiversity through deforestation, particu- larly through the cultivation of natural rubber, and to comply with the regulatory requirements for deforestation-free supply chains. As part of responsible purchasing, Continental indirectly addresses the driver of biodiversity loss, in particular change in land use in connection with deforestation. In addition, the management approach addresses Continental’s dependence on natural rubber. In 2018, Continental introduced a “Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy” to ensure responsible purchasing. The purchasing policy has been integrated into the business processes and decision-making processes, risk manage- ment and processes for risk mitigation. By implementing this man- agement approach, Continental is able to increase the resilience of the supply chain while addressing the risks associated with the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and subsequent market changes. The social consequences of the impacts on biodiversity associated with deforestation are given special consideration in the manage- ment approach. Sustainable or agricultural practices are addressed in the Sustaina- ble Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing fo- cuses on direct suppliers and indirectly on the deeper supply chain. Continental expects its direct suppliers to cascade the principles through their respective supply chains. Regarding sustainable natu- ral rubber, the management approach explicitly covers the supply chain down to the rubber plantation. Responsibility for the management approach to environmental pro- tection is described in the corresponding subsection in the Pollu- tion (ESRS E2) section under Environmental protection in the sup- ply chain. Responsibility for the implementation of the manage- ment approach regarding the responsible purchasing of natural rubber lies with the respective purchasing departments, which are supported e.g. by the sustainability departments. Strategic monitor- ing is the responsibility of the group sector boards and, at an over- arching level, the Executive Board of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 152 Metrics Relating to Pollution Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Substances of concern Amount of substances of concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.083 0.067 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Hazard classes are assigned in accordance with the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for the classification and labeling of chemicals. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that no significant reactions of substances of concern occur in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the Surface Solutions business area, an expert estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Quantity of substances of concern that leave the company as part of products, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled according to the assumptions described under the metric Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 153 Substances of very high concern Amount of substances of very high concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.006 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that there are no significant reactions of substances of very high concern in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the business area Surface Solutions, an estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled in accordance with the assumptions described under the metric amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities. Environmental management Coverage of environmental protection management systems 2024 Certifications for environmental protection management systems (ISO 14001) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 77 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications are considered, as well as ongoing recertifications, if the achievement of recertification was considered highly probable. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are considered not to be covered. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own employees working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 154 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to biodiversity and ecosystems. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management ap- proaches, the descriptions are presented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the manage- ment approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain › Continental is highly dependent on natural rubber to manufac- ture its rubber products. The production of natural rubber in gen- eral is considered a key commodity regarding potential deforesta- tion. Beyond natural rubber, deforestation is also generally consid- ered a relevant issue in other supply chains (e.g. metals). It can therefore be assumed that deforestation can occur deeper in Continental’s supply chain if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 28) › Continental as well as its direct and indirect suppliers operate among others in industries and certain markets that are actually or potentially subject to regulation related to deforestation and the resulting market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services, if not man- aged preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 31) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in certain markets and industries that pose a risk of potential deforestation, particularly in relation to natural rubber. If corrective measures are not taken and due diligence measures are not performed or serious violations occur, Continental can be exposed to sanction regulations with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business opera- tion, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 30) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries and pro- cures numerous products and services from a global supplier base which must comply with increasing regulatory requirements with regard to biodiversity. Comprehensive preventive measures for securing access to supply chains that are prepared for fast in- creasing regulation on biodiversity due diligence might poten- tially create comparatively more resilient supply chains offering significant potential for differentiation from the competition in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 32) Downstream value chain › Continental provides components and systems for vehicles and industrial applications. In the use phase of vehicles and industrial applications as well as in the provision of the related infrastruc- tures (e.g. roads and mines), significant direct and indirect nega- tive impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems (particularly climate change, pollution and changes in land use) occur. These are pri- marily indirectly related to the individual companies in the vehicle and industrial value chains. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 29) Biodiversity and Ecosystems (ESRS E4)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 154 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to biodiversity and ecosystems. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management ap- proaches, the descriptions are presented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the manage- ment approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain › Continental is highly dependent on natural rubber to manufac- ture its rubber products. The production of natural rubber in gen- eral is considered a key commodity regarding potential deforesta- tion. Beyond natural rubber, deforestation is also generally consid- ered a relevant issue in other supply chains (e.g. metals). It can therefore be assumed that deforestation can occur deeper in Continental’s supply chain if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 28) › Continental as well as its direct and indirect suppliers operate among others in industries and certain markets that are actually or potentially subject to regulation related to deforestation and the resulting market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services, if not man- aged preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 31) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in certain markets and industries that pose a risk of potential deforestation, particularly in relation to natural rubber. If corrective measures are not taken and due diligence measures are not performed or serious violations occur, Continental can be exposed to sanction regulations with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business opera- tion, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 30) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries and pro- cures numerous products and services from a global supplier base which must comply with increasing regulatory requirements with regard to biodiversity. Comprehensive preventive measures for securing access to supply chains that are prepared for fast in- creasing regulation on biodiversity due diligence might poten- tially create comparatively more resilient supply chains offering significant potential for differentiation from the competition in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 32) Downstream value chain › Continental provides components and systems for vehicles and industrial applications. In the use phase of vehicles and industrial applications as well as in the provision of the related infrastruc- tures (e.g. roads and mines), significant direct and indirect nega- tive impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems (particularly climate change, pollution and changes in land use) occur. These are pri- marily indirectly related to the individual companies in the vehicle and industrial value chains. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 29) Biodiversity and Ecosystems (ESRS E4)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 154 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to biodiversity and ecosystems. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management ap- proaches, the descriptions are presented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the manage- ment approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain › Continental is highly dependent on natural rubber to manufac- ture its rubber products. The production of natural rubber in gen- eral is considered a key commodity regarding potential deforesta- tion. Beyond natural rubber, deforestation is also generally consid- ered a relevant issue in other supply chains (e.g. metals). It can therefore be assumed that deforestation can occur deeper in Continental’s supply chain if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 28) › Continental as well as its direct and indirect suppliers operate among others in industries and certain markets that are actually or potentially subject to regulation related to deforestation and the resulting market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services, if not man- aged preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 31) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in certain markets and industries that pose a risk of potential deforestation, particularly in relation to natural rubber. If corrective measures are not taken and due diligence measures are not performed or serious violations occur, Continental can be exposed to sanction regulations with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business opera- tion, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 30) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries and pro- cures numerous products and services from a global supplier base which must comply with increasing regulatory requirements with regard to biodiversity. Comprehensive preventive measures for securing access to supply chains that are prepared for fast in- creasing regulation on biodiversity due diligence might poten- tially create comparatively more resilient supply chains offering significant potential for differentiation from the competition in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 32) Downstream value chain › Continental provides components and systems for vehicles and industrial applications. In the use phase of vehicles and industrial applications as well as in the provision of the related infrastruc- tures (e.g. roads and mines), significant direct and indirect nega- tive impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems (particularly climate change, pollution and changes in land use) occur. These are pri- marily indirectly related to the individual companies in the vehicle and industrial value chains. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 29) Biodiversity and Ecosystems (ESRS E4)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 157 Due to the nature of Continental’s products, the driver change in the land use (e.g. road infrastructure) in the downstream value chain is considered out of Continental’s scope of influence. There- fore, no specific management approach was defined for the driver change in the land use. Continental’s management approaches relate to the following di- rect drivers of biodiversity loss listed in ESRS E4, AR4: › Climate change, › Pollution. Continental has not identified any material risks related to biodiver- sity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain. Biodiversity and ecosystems-related social consequences in the downstream value chain are not considered separately in the man- agement approaches. Along the downstream value chain, the traceability of products and thus the product-related impacts are extremely limited due to the nature of the products and are therefore not taken into account in the management approaches. Targets Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to biodiversity and ecosystems, it was decided to pur- sue the defined management approaches and not to set a time- bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the tracking of progress is described in the related management ap- proaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems beyond the described man- agement approaches."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 158 Consideration of Biodiversity and Ecosystems in the Strategy and Business Model Relation to strategy and business model The impacts and risks identified in relation to biodiversity and eco- systems are by definition related to Continental’s strategy and busi- ness model. Integration into Continental’s strategy and business model is described in this section in the management approaches Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain as well as Down- stream value chain. In addition, the analysis of the resilience of Continental’s strategy and business model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems along the entire value chain is integrated into the general IRO as- sessment (see subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section). Resilience of strategy and business model The focus of the resilience analysis is on the combined transition and systemic risk related to deforestation regulation and has been incorporated into the general IRO assessment. In the process of identifying and assessing risks and opportunities as part of the general IRO assessment, Continental took into con- sideration several factors and scenarios, as described in the IROs. The use of scenarios and assumptions by definition leads to uncer- tainties in the outcome of the analysis. To assess the resilience of Continental’s business model to the identified risks and opportunities, a net assessment was carried out taking into account the existing management approaches related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Based on the identified risks, the upstream value chain represents the focus of the resilience analysis. The key assumptions of the identified risks were the assumed de- velopment of regulation and market developments, as described in the respective risks. This includes especially the expected imple- mentation of the EUDR. The stakeholders were involved in the assessment as described in the general methodology of the IRO assessment in the subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities presented in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Continental has assessed its material risks in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems and especially in relation to deforestation, with a focus on a medium-term time horizon. Based on the IRO assessment and taking into account the manage- ment approaches, Continental considers its business activities to be resilient. The management approaches in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems describe Continental’s current ability to reduce its material negative impacts, manage risks and seize opportunities. Continental also assumes that these skills will continue to develop over time."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 160 Management Approaches for Resource Use and Circular Economy In the area of resource use and circular economy, Continental has developed the management approaches Circularity and Waste in own operations in order to manage the described impacts, risks and opportunities. Circularity Our management approach for circularity aims to contribute to Continental’s sustainability ambition and achieve 100 % closed re- source and product loops by 2050 at the latest. Besides fulfilling this ambition, this management approach strives to mitigate re- lated risks in the area of circularity considering the different require- ments and speeds of transformation of our customers, industries and markets. The management approach encompasses the upstream and down- stream value chain as well as Continental’s own operations and also includes switching from the use of primary to secondary resources and materials. The procurement of renewable and recycled (secondary) materials is a key element here. The management approach applies to the entire Group and the product portfolio and covers resource inflows and outflows. The responsible business functions bear the responsibility for the management and adaptation of the respective product portfolio. Oversight of the effectiveness of portfolio management is exercised by the group sector boards and the Executive Board of Continental. Key processes are handled by the respective departments within the company, e.g. research and development (R&D), product de- sign, supply chain management and purchasing. These are sup- ported by the sustainability departments. The management approach includes specific process regarding re- source inflows and outflows considering technological, biological and product cycles. For resource inflows, the related key measures regarding purchased resources are mainly managed in purchasing, product design and R&D processes. The process of material approval, managed by R&D, serves among other purposes the identification of recycled and renewable materi- als to be introduced in production processes. The process of mate- rial approval usually consists of a laboratory evaluation, followed by testing and a processing evaluation before a material is released. The sourcing of renewable and recycled materials partially includes active supplier development, which is managed by the purchasing departments, as well as the sourcing of materials within traceability mechanisms like the mass balance approach. In addition, Continental engages with selected suppliers in strategic supplier meetings to intensify activities regarding circularity such as through respective adaptation in product design and material composition. For resource outflows, the management approach comprises measures with regard to the circularity of products that are mainly managed within product design as well as R&D processes, with a focus on improved reusability, repairability, recyclability, durability and overall circularity. This includes own activities as well as indus- try cooperations and partnerships. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the traceability of dedicated materials, Continental applies the ISCC PLUS framework as described in more detail in the following subsections of this section. The management approach and the related measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and re- quests of investors. For resource inflows, especially direct suppliers as part of the upstream value chain are directly involved. For re- source outflows, the perspectives of stakeholders relevant to end- of-life treatment are also taken into account, for example in industry initiatives. Continental communicates its approach to managing circularity ex- ternally through the publication of the annual report as well as trade fairs, press releases and dialogues with investors, and inter- nally using various channels such as conferences on sustainability and products, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Waste in own operations To minimize the negative impact of landfilling or incineration of non-recyclable waste from own operations and to make the best possible use of opportunities in relation to waste efficiency, Conti- nental has developed a management approach for waste that is in- tegrated into the general environmental management. A defined waste hierarchy has been introduced at the locations for this pur- pose. It prioritizes actions to reduce waste generation, followed by reusing materials, recycling, and recovering energy from waste. The least preferred option is disposal, such as landfill. By following this hierarchy, we can reduce environmental impact and promote sus- tainable use of resources. Continental strives to gradually reduce the amount of waste and the generation of waste at its locations step by step and year by year. Due to the different business activi- ties within the company, specific programs are designed by the in- dividual group sectors in line with respective needs."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 161 The management approach for waste in own operations covers the entire Continental Group. Continental’s environmental strategy is steered and approved by the Executive Board. The associated programs are coordinated in internal committees of the environmental protection departments. The waste management is embedded in Continental's environmen- tal management systems. Waste-related processes are monitored and continuously improved as part of the general reviews of environmental management. Continental’s environmental management system was developed in accordance with ISO 14001, an internationally recognized standard for environmental management systems from the International Or- ganization for Standardization (ISO). The management approach reflects the interests of various stake- holders by using the widely accepted waste hierarchy and the adher- ence to ISO 14001. The direct interaction with stakeholders in rela- tion to waste takes place in particular with the responsible authorities. Continental communicates its management approach to waste management through various channels to ensure comprehensive understanding and engagement across the entire company. This includes information on the intranet, which makes the approach and specific internal rules accessible to all employees. Targets Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy As part of its sustainability ambition in relation to circularity and carbon neutrality, Continental has set a public sustainability target for the Tires group sector with regard to recycled and renewable material inflows. Continental has set for itself the target of increas- ing the share of recycled and renewable production materials for tires to at least 40 % by 2030. The target is related to Continental’s management approaches Cir- cularity as noted in this section, and Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section of this sustainability report. The processes of the management ap- proach to circularity in terms of resource inflows are decisive for achieving the defined target. These are focused on resource inflow and enable this target to be achieved, as increased share of recy- cled and renewable materials is expected to lead to a lower carbon footprint for materials while at the same time enabling closed-loop resource cycles. Continental has identified key levers regarding resource inflows to increase the share of recycled and renewable tire production mate- rials. These comprise measures on the selection of recycled and re- newable materials, which are usually managed by R&D, as well as the identification of new suppliers and the further development of existing suppliers to secure relevant quantities of recycled and re- newable materials in the purchasing processes. These are set out in specific material roadmaps and are regularly updated. Correspond- ing certifications of origin or other instruments for origin and trace- ability contribute towards achieving the target by making it possi- ble to create transparency in the supply chains. Transitioning away from non-renewable resources will be achieved by replacing non-renewable materials with alternatives from renew- able sources. In addition, the replacement of primary materials with materials from secondary sources, e.g. from recycling processes, contribute towards achieving the target. For selecting renewable and recycled materials, the technical ability to integrate these with- out compromising safety and performance into our tires is prereq- uisite. This is ensured in the general process of material approval by R&D through detailed assessments and tests that take into ac- count the material characteristics, their interdependencies in the overall material composition and the tires as the end product. In general, some materials can be replaced by technically identical al- ternatives without changing the material composition or the end product, e.g. when a primary material is replaced by the same but recycled material. In addition, in some cases, replacing materials with alternative and technically slightly different yet renewable or recycled materials can lead to smaller differences in the end prod- uct. In doing so, Continental always ensures the same level of prod- uct safety and performance as well as takes further relevant bound- ary conditions into account. Based on the materials identified and approved as recycled or re- newable resource inflow, a joint strategy development process takes place between purchasing, R&D and sustainability. For materi- als identified with a potential to contribute to the target in a signifi- cant manner, dedicated material roadmaps are developed and maintained by the purchasing departments. These roadmaps as- sess the general availability of the respective materials for the re- quired quantities and allow conclusive analysis on their availability"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 158 Consideration of Biodiversity and Ecosystems in the Strategy and Business Model Relation to strategy and business model The impacts and risks identified in relation to biodiversity and eco- systems are by definition related to Continental’s strategy and busi- ness model. Integration into Continental’s strategy and business model is described in this section in the management approaches Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain as well as Down- stream value chain. In addition, the analysis of the resilience of Continental’s strategy and business model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems along the entire value chain is integrated into the general IRO as- sessment (see subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section). Resilience of strategy and business model The focus of the resilience analysis is on the combined transition and systemic risk related to deforestation regulation and has been incorporated into the general IRO assessment. In the process of identifying and assessing risks and opportunities as part of the general IRO assessment, Continental took into con- sideration several factors and scenarios, as described in the IROs. The use of scenarios and assumptions by definition leads to uncer- tainties in the outcome of the analysis. To assess the resilience of Continental’s business model to the identified risks and opportunities, a net assessment was carried out taking into account the existing management approaches related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Based on the identified risks, the upstream value chain represents the focus of the resilience analysis. The key assumptions of the identified risks were the assumed de- velopment of regulation and market developments, as described in the respective risks. This includes especially the expected imple- mentation of the EUDR. The stakeholders were involved in the assessment as described in the general methodology of the IRO assessment in the subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities presented in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Continental has assessed its material risks in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems and especially in relation to deforestation, with a focus on a medium-term time horizon. Based on the IRO assessment and taking into account the manage- ment approaches, Continental considers its business activities to be resilient. The management approaches in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems describe Continental’s current ability to reduce its material negative impacts, manage risks and seize opportunities. Continental also assumes that these skills will continue to develop over time."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 159 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to resource use and circular economy. They have been grouped together into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are pre- sented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the re- spective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and correspond- ing reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, their descriptions are pre- sented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, con- siders the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Circularity › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental and its direct suppliers and indirect suppliers along the supply chain also operate in industries and types of operations which involve significant sourcing of raw ma- terials from primary or non-renewable sources (including fossil- based materials and materials from mining). (see ESRS 2, IRO ta- ble, impact 33) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers also operate in industries and specific markets which could be subject to regulation related to the use of non-renewable respec- tively renewable and non-recycled respectively recycled re- sources as well as the related market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 36) › Continental operates in industries which are not yet fully circular. The global product and material cycles for electronic compo- nents, tires, industrial components and other products are only partially closed. Considering the total amount of material in Conti- nental’s products, the related end-of-life-disposal of Continental’s products therefore contributes substantively to waste generation. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 34) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because of circularity-related regulatory re- quirements and market trends. Related regulatory requirements such as climate protection regulations can also be important for circularity. Given the broadness of Continental’s portfolio, many product segments and the business with many customer groups could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respec- tive business activities, especially in the long term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 37) Waste in own operations › Continental currently generates non-recyclable waste (including hazardous waste) in own operations, which is sent to landfill or in- cineration plants. This leads to limited negative impacts on circu- lar economy and is therefore considered relevant for corporate responsibility. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 35) › Continental’s waste management could open up moderate finan- cial opportunities by reducing operational costs, if waste manage- ment and waste handling are further improved in the medium term. This opportunity is considered relevant from an ESRS re- porting perspective. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 38) Resource Use and Circular Economy (ESRS E5)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 162 on the market at economically compatible costs. Securing suffi- cient quantities of these materials is ensured through a balanced purchasing strategy that includes long-term contractual agree- ments as well as short-term purchasing activities for flexibility in dy- namic markets. The transparency and provision of evidence of the use of renewa- ble and recycled materials is a key lever to achieving the set target. As for many of our highly complex chemical value chains, material flows can hardly be traced physically on one-on-one level. There- fore, Continental also applies the mass balance approach (MBA) to purchases of materials, e.g. within the scope of ISCC PLUS. The pur- chasing departments as well as the sustainability department of the Tires group sector are primarily managing related activities. The scope of this sustainability target relates to all materials for tire production in the Tires group sector’s own operations. The retread- ing of tires as well as non-production materials are not taken into account in achieving this target. This intensity target is measured on the basis of the metric for the weight share of renewable and recycled materials for tires produc- tion as a percentage. The base year is 2024 and therefore the baseline value corresponds with the current result of the metric. No interim targets have been set. The overall commonly recognized concept of circularity includes in particular recycling and the use of renewable resources following with scientific studies. Continental’s target setting follows this gen- eral approach but does not consider a specific methodology for sci- ence-based target setting. In order to ensure the accuracy of material inflows accounted as re- cycled or renewable, mass balance approaches prevailed as feasi- ble option in the past years in complex value chains. It allows regu- lated, transparent and certified accounting of respective materials. Continental follows those commonly recognized certification schemes with the mass balance approach. The methodology for calculating the metric is described in the cor- responding explanations for the metric. The target was defined based on internal qualitative analysis and calculations with regards to the increase of the share of recycled and renewable materials. In general, materials are classified as renewable due to their general origin, and as recycled if they are of secondary origin. Renewable materials include bio-based resources that can return to their previ- ous stock levels through natural growth or renewal processes at a rate in line with use cycles. The target level of at least 40 % was de- fined based on internal feasibility studies as well as market extrapo- lations. The target takes into account the interests of different stakeholders such as customers using direct and indirect consultations. In the reporting period, the target was reported for the very first time. Continental’s target focuses on the resource inflows, especially with regard to the increase in the share of renewable and secondary materials as well as the reduction in the use of primary materials. We follow the cascading principle to use raw materials or products made of them for as long, as often and as efficiently as possible. The target in particular supports the recycling level of the waste hi- erarchy. The target has been set voluntarily to support the transition to- wards closed resource and product cycles."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 163 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has introduced concrete key actions to achieve the tar- get of at least 40 % recycled and renewable materials share in tire production by 2030. These actions mainly relate to the key levers of material identification, strategies for securing sufficient supplies and traceability, e.g. via the mass balance approach. Overall, actions related to the target are also strongly connected with the overall management approach of circularity. In order to be able to react flexibly to the changing market situation and changing needs, the actions are further developed step by step. The identification of renewable and recycled materials is one deci- sive factor to reach the target. Thus, the research and development department is continuously monitoring alternative materials to re- place non-renewable sources with renewable sources and primary sources with secondary sources. Innovative approaches are pur- sued as the usage of plant-based materials instead of fossil-based fillers, oils and resins. The activities aimed at increasing the share of recycled or renewable materials are inherently embedded into the operational processes of R&D. Thus, there is one overall process for material identification including material approval that is identical for recycled and renewable materials as well as non-recycled and non-renewable materials. As the availability of certain materials is crucial, there is a defined set of renewable and recycled materials suitable to enable reaching the target. These materials are identified by internal experts from R&D, sustainability and purchasing. This serves as a foundation to develop corresponding material roadmaps and purchasing strate- gies which are continuously monitored and updated. Materials that contribute towards increasing the share of recycled and renewable production materials in the initial steps are, in particular, recovered carbon black and recycled polyester. On the basis of the identified materials that contribute towards achieving the target of a minimum of 40 % recycled and renewable materials for tire production, purchasing strategies including mate- rial roadmaps are created with the involvement of experts from purchasing, R&D and sustainability. The creation and review of these roadmaps defines the overall framework of measures for the long-term procurement of the respective materials with implemen- tation scenarios. In addition, concrete short-term actions are devel- oped on this basis as flexible elements such as material-specific procurement activities in order to react to changing market situa- tions. These plans are coordinated and agreed with the board of the Tires group sector, and regularly reviewed and adapted as needed. While the integration of selected materials requires only limited adaptation in production processes, their availability in terms of large volumes at economically compatible cost is a deci- sive factor. In any case, Continental guarantees the same uniform level of safety and performance of all our tires. Whenever possible, Continental strives to secure volumes of relevant materials in the long term. For the Tires group sector, natural rubber is a key raw material that also contributes towards the share of renewable and recycled pro- duction materials. Therefore, with our partnerships along the value chain and the corresponding purchasing strategies, Continental will continue to source natural rubber and secure sufficient quantities for the coming years. As concrete examples of actions that contrib- ute towards achieving the target, Continental invests in processes for obtaining high-quality recycled materials for example through the strategic partnership with Pyrum to implement a circular ap- proach to recycling of old tires. Using a special pyrolysis process, carbon black, oil and gas are recovered as secondary resources and used for the production of new tires, among other purposes. Similarly, with its ContiRe.Tex solution, Continental has invented to- gether with the partner Otiz a process for high-performance yarn that allows conventional polyester to be replaced with polyester made from recycled PET-bottles. First products with recycled PET bottles are already introduced and a global rollout of this material in all Continental tire plants is foreseen within the year 2025. The creation of transparency and reliable information on recycled and renewable materials through the various steps in our complex value chains is a key action for Continental. Over the last few years, mass balance approaches prevailed as standard especially in chem- ical industry, allowing the regulated and transparent accounting of the quantities and the respective characteristics of recycled and re- newable materials. We see mass balance approaches as a neces- sary tool for the transition away from fossil resources in our mate- rial value chains. It reduces complexity, speeds up the adoption of materials and ensures continuous supply. If materials certified as re- cycled or renewable are combined with other non-certified materi- als in production processes, accounting following the mass balance approach ensures accurate recording and allocation of the respec- tive certified shares according to the actual material inflows. In this way, the quantities accounted as recycled and renewable are corre- spondingly certified and made transparent and traceable along the entire value chain. We therefore require suppliers to actively partici- pate in these frameworks where relevant, for example ISCC PLUS. The actions with regards to increasing the recycled and renewable share in tire production materials are embedded into operational activities especially in the areas of research and development and purchasing. The actions include short- and medium-term measures. The progress of the related actions (in the reporting year) is espe- cially measured by the progress of the target KPI"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 163 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has introduced concrete key actions to achieve the tar- get of at least 40 % recycled and renewable materials share in tire production by 2030. These actions mainly relate to the key levers of material identification, strategies for securing sufficient supplies and traceability, e.g. via the mass balance approach. Overall, actions related to the target are also strongly connected with the overall management approach of circularity. In order to be able to react flexibly to the changing market situation and changing needs, the actions are further developed step by step. The identification of renewable and recycled materials is one deci- sive factor to reach the target. Thus, the research and development department is continuously monitoring alternative materials to re- place non-renewable sources with renewable sources and primary sources with secondary sources. Innovative approaches are pur- sued as the usage of plant-based materials instead of fossil-based fillers, oils and resins. The activities aimed at increasing the share of recycled or renewable materials are inherently embedded into the operational processes of R&D. Thus, there is one overall process for material identification including material approval that is identical for recycled and renewable materials as well as non-recycled and non-renewable materials. As the availability of certain materials is crucial, there is a defined set of renewable and recycled materials suitable to enable reaching the target. These materials are identified by internal experts from R&D, sustainability and purchasing. This serves as a foundation to develop corresponding material roadmaps and purchasing strate- gies which are continuously monitored and updated. Materials that contribute towards increasing the share of recycled and renewable production materials in the initial steps are, in particular, recovered carbon black and recycled polyester. On the basis of the identified materials that contribute towards achieving the target of a minimum of 40 % recycled and renewable materials for tire production, purchasing strategies including mate- rial roadmaps are created with the involvement of experts from purchasing, R&D and sustainability. The creation and review of these roadmaps defines the overall framework of measures for the long-term procurement of the respective materials with implemen- tation scenarios. In addition, concrete short-term actions are devel- oped on this basis as flexible elements such as material-specific procurement activities in order to react to changing market situa- tions. These plans are coordinated and agreed with the board of the Tires group sector, and regularly reviewed and adapted as needed. While the integration of selected materials requires only limited adaptation in production processes, their availability in terms of large volumes at economically compatible cost is a deci- sive factor. In any case, Continental guarantees the same uniform level of safety and performance of all our tires. Whenever possible, Continental strives to secure volumes of relevant materials in the long term. For the Tires group sector, natural rubber is a key raw material that also contributes towards the share of renewable and recycled pro- duction materials. Therefore, with our partnerships along the value chain and the corresponding purchasing strategies, Continental will continue to source natural rubber and secure sufficient quantities for the coming years. As concrete examples of actions that contrib- ute towards achieving the target, Continental invests in processes for obtaining high-quality recycled materials for example through the strategic partnership with Pyrum to implement a circular ap- proach to recycling of old tires. Using a special pyrolysis process, carbon black, oil and gas are recovered as secondary resources and used for the production of new tires, among other purposes. Similarly, with its ContiRe.Tex solution, Continental has invented to- gether with the partner Otiz a process for high-performance yarn that allows conventional polyester to be replaced with polyester made from recycled PET-bottles. First products with recycled PET bottles are already introduced and a global rollout of this material in all Continental tire plants is foreseen within the year 2025. The creation of transparency and reliable information on recycled and renewable materials through the various steps in our complex value chains is a key action for Continental. Over the last few years, mass balance approaches prevailed as standard especially in chem- ical industry, allowing the regulated and transparent accounting of the quantities and the respective characteristics of recycled and re- newable materials. We see mass balance approaches as a neces- sary tool for the transition away from fossil resources in our mate- rial value chains. It reduces complexity, speeds up the adoption of materials and ensures continuous supply. If materials certified as re- cycled or renewable are combined with other non-certified materi- als in production processes, accounting following the mass balance approach ensures accurate recording and allocation of the respec- tive certified shares according to the actual material inflows. In this way, the quantities accounted as recycled and renewable are corre- spondingly certified and made transparent and traceable along the entire value chain. We therefore require suppliers to actively partici- pate in these frameworks where relevant, for example ISCC PLUS. The actions with regards to increasing the recycled and renewable share in tire production materials are embedded into operational activities especially in the areas of research and development and purchasing. The actions include short- and medium-term measures. The progress of the related actions (in the reporting year) is espe- cially measured by the progress of the target KPI"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 164 Capital expenditures and operating expenditures for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy OpEx for key actions 2024 OpEx for key actions to achieve targets related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 1,009 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Material costs for renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - The data collection is done on the level of materials. The calculation is based on an average data method. Primary data from inventory levels and purchasing data are used. Planned OpEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned OpEx for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 4,734 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Includes operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Material costs for renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - The data collection is done on the level of materials. The calculation is based on an average data method. Primary data from inventory levels and purchasing data are used. CapEx for key actions 2024 CapEx for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the capital expenditures (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Project costs and intangible assets for the technology conversion for production using renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - Data is collected at project level. Planned CapEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned CapEx for key actions to achieve the target relating to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term plan. - Includes the capital expenditures (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Project costs and intangible assets for the technology conversion for production using renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - Data is collected at project level."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 165 Metrics Relating to Resource Use and Circular Economy Resource inflows Total weight of products and materials used 2024 Total weight of products (including packaging) and materials used, in million t 3.7 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes technical and biological materials. Services, property, plant, equipment, and trading goods are excluded. - If no weight information is available, these are calculated using the costs of the materials and goods, such as packaging materials, with conversion factors. Calculated inventory stock level at 01.01. is considered. Percentage of sustainable biological materials 2024 Percentage of sustainably sourced biological materials (and biofuels used for non-energy purposes), in % 8.2 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Biological materials are considered renewable materials according to generally recognized standards. - Sustainably sourced refers to resource inflows that have been verified by external standards and certifications or other comparable schemes. In particular, this includes our procurement of natural rubber via defined processes based on specific sustainability criteria such as the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR) and our Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Weight of secondary components, intermediate products and materials used for products and services 2024 Total weight of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials used to manufacture products and services (including packaging), in million t 0.2 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total weight of materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - Packaging from the upstream supply chain is not included. - The proportion of secondary materials is based both on information from suppliers and, in some cases, expert assessments for certain materials. Due to missing or inconsistent data on packaging in some cases, internal expert assessments of the weight of specific packaging types were used to extrapolate the total weight using a factor and corresponding expenditure. Percentage of secondary components, intermediate products and materials used for products and services 2024 Percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials used to manufacture products and services (including packaging), in % 5.3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is made up of the previously defined metrics. Weight of renewable and recycled material inflow 2024 Total weight of renewable and recycled material inflow, in million t 0.6 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Non-production-related materials, including packaging, are excluded. The total weight of raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - The metric is entity-specific. Inflow of renewable and recycled materials 2024 Percentage of renewable and recycled material inflow, in % 18.4 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total weight of recycled and renewable raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - Non-production-related materials, including packaging, are excluded. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 166 Weight of renewable and recycled material inflows (Tires) 2024 Total weight of the renewable and recycled materials inflow (raw materials of the Tires group sector only), in million t 0.5 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric only encompasses the Tires group sector and relates to Continental’s public sustainability target for circularity. - The total weight of recycled and renewable raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the purchased quantities of materials of the Tires group sector. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - The metric is entity-specific. Inflow of renewable and recycled materials (Tires) 2024 Percentage of inflow of renewable and recycled materials (only raw materials of the Tires group sector), in % 26.0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total weight of recycled and renewable raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - The absolute weight of renewable and recycled raw material inflows in the Tires group sector is divided by the total weight of the products and materials used in the Tires group sector. - The metric is entity-specific. These resource inflows are described in greater detail in the man- agement approach Circularity presented in this section and in the Description of the business model and value chain subsection of the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Resource outflows Continental’s main resource outflows including waste in regard to their material impacts, risks and opportunities are described in this section and in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Products and materials Continental’s product portfolio covers a broad spectrum, particu- larly in the areas of industry and vehicles. A detailed description can be found in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The im- plementation of our sustainability ambition to achieve 100 % closed resource and product cycles by 2050 at the latest is de- scribed in particular in the management approach Circularity in this section. Rates of recyclable content in product packaging 2024 Rates of recyclable content in product packaging, in % 100 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The quantity of packaging purchased corresponds to the quantity of packaging used. - The data is reported centrally. Rates of recyclable content in products 2024 Rates of recyclable content in products, in % 61.3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Data is based on purchasing data and calculated on a group sector-specific basis. - This metric defines the proportion of the weight of the contents of products that can potentially be recycled. This value may differ significantly from the actual recycling of this content. - If no weight data is available, it is calculated based on the cost of materials and goods, such as packaging materials, using conversion factors. The calculated inventory as of January 1st is considered. Continental has a diverse product portfolio serving the automotive and other industries. Due to the differences in the individual prod- ucts, target markets, use cases and user behavior, it is almost im- possible to predict the expected durability across the board. The actual durability of a specific product may deviate from the follow- ing estimates in individual cases. For all tires, service conditions vary widely depending on vehicle and use as well as other factors such as inflation pressure, load, speed, road conditions, frequency of rotation, and storage condi- tions. Nonetheless regarding the estimated durability of tires, it is essential to replace passenger car tires and commercial vehicle tires when the tread depth falls below 1.6 mm, as this is the mini- mum legal limit across the European Union. In industry-wide prod- uct tests by external associations, passenger car tires often achieve an overall mileage of 20,000 km to 70,000 km until the legal mini- mum tread depth of 1.6 mm is reached. There, Continental tires rank among the best. Furthermore, in the tire industry, it is gener- ally recommended to check and replace a tire after 10 years if needed. For the automotive industry, the key products of the Automotive group sector are electronic brake systems, electronic control units, telematics, access systems, as well as surround radars and display solutions. For the ContiTech group sector, the product portfolio"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 203 Consequently, Continental does not engage with consumers or end-users on human rights. Accordingly, the management approach is not based on interna- tionally recognized human rights standards. Nevertheless, Continental’s whistleblowing channels such as the in- tegrity hotline are open to consumers and end-users as well. The interests of consumers and end-users are the key drivers for the management approach. Their wishes and concerns regarding personal safety, reliability of the vehicle, comfort and convenience or cost efficiency are not only relevant for Continental but also for Continental’s business partners. The engagement with consumers and their representatives takes place through various formats in- cluding regular surveys as well as trade fairs. Understanding these interests helps Continental to develop and to place products and systems that meet the needs and expectations of the consumers and end-users. Continental actively communicates about safe mobility in various formats, also in the style of public advocacy to improve safe mobil- ity (e.g. via social media). Internal engagement also includes a vari- ety of formats. Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts Due to Continental’s role as a supplier to other companies, direct processes for engaging with consumers and end-users as well as their representatives about actual and potential impacts are primar- ily established for tires replacement market. Continental uses mainly customer service centers which take care on customers’ re- quests regarding product or service issues. In addition, for any con- cerns regarding integrity topics, Continental’s integrity hotline is available to consumers and end-users via our website, by tele- phone or email. Continental gains insights into the perspectives of consumers and end-users on actual or potential concrete impacts by means of di- rect feedback, for example through customer service centers. In ad- dition, Continental also receives feedback from their business part- ners about their end-users. Consumers and end-users that are par- ticularly vulnerable to impacts or are marginalized (e.g. children) are not a specific focus area when it comes to obtaining insights into the perspectives of consumers and end-users. The combination of direct and indirect engagement with consum- ers and end-users leads to an engagement at different stages of the product life cycle. While the interaction in the replacement mar- ket and the indirect interaction via customers takes place on a con- tinuous basis, event and incident-based interaction is by nature ir- regular. This engagement and consideration of the views of con- sumers and end-users is described in the respective management approaches, particularly related to technical and product compli- ance (e.g. with regard to responsibilities or monitoring of effective- ness), as it constitutes a relevant input for those management ap- proaches, through – among others – the related legal requirements. Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns Grievance channels for consumers and end-users Continental’s processes and channels to cooperate on remediation of negative impacts on consumers and end-users, and also to raise concerns, are mainly the customer service centers of the group sectors and as well as Continental’s integrity hotline. The customer service centers are specific channels for consumers and end-users for any product-related issues. Furthermore, the in- tegrity hotline is an additional channel for integrity-related product issues. However, it is not intended as a channel to report discontent with Continental’s products. The availability of Continental's integrity hotline is pointed out in Continental`s business relationships via our Business Partner Code of Conduct, which is also publicly available on our website. The tracking and monitoring of concerns raised through customer service centers takes place directly in the customer service centers and through related processes. The tracking and monitoring of the integrity-related product issues raised and dealt with was described in the process for tC case management which is part of the man- agement approach to technical and product compliance. Further information on how Continental ensures the effectiveness of the in- tegrity hotline can be found in the Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) section in this sustainability report. Continental does not explicitly assess the affected consumers’ and end-users’ knowledge of these channels and their trust in them. Further information on protection of Continental’s integrity hotline users from retaliation can be found in the information on Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) in this sustainability report. Remediation processes Continental’s general approach to remedy in cases of material neg- ative impacts on consumers and/or end-users is in line with na- tional regulations. In case of individual negative product-related incidents, Continental follows the regulations of the respective national authorities and ini- tiates, if required, e.g. recalls either on its own or indirectly via re- calls by customers that place the final product on the market. This may also include remedial measures for consumers or end-users. The effectiveness of the measures is assessed as part of the de- scribed management approach to technical and product-related compliance."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 204 Targets Related to Consumers and End-Users Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to consumers and end-users, it was decided to pursue the described management approaches and not to set a time- bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the tracking of progress are described in the related management approaches and the reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to consumers and end-users beyond the described man- agement approaches. Metrics Related to Consumers and End-Users Coverage of quality management systems 2024 Quality management system certifications (ISO 9001 or similar) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 85 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications as well as ongoing certifications, if the achievement of recertification is considered highly probable, are taken into account. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are considered not to be covered. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own workforce working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own workforce. - The metric is entity-specific. New field quality events 2024 Number of new field quality events (as at December 31) 17 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - A field quality event is defined as a risk-minimizing measure initiated by Continental, a customer and/or an authority based on a safety-related deficiency and/or non- compliance with the regulations. - As the corresponding product is usually already in use by end-customers, the technical jargon is that it is already “in the field.” - This metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Governance Information 205 Business Conduct and Corporate Governance (ESRS G1) Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Business Conduct and Corporate Governance Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential negative im- pacts and risks were identified in relation to business conduct and corporate governance. They have been grouped together into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspec- tive which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. › Continental operates in certain markets and business activities in which individual or non-individual incidents of alleged or actual unlawful behavior regarding antitrust regulations can occur that can result in significant negative impact on markets, societies or individuals, if not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 72) › Continental operates in certain markets and business activities where incidents with significant negative impacts on whistleblow- ers could occur if they are not adequately prevented or sufficient protection cannot be ensured. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 73) › Continental operates in certain markets and business activities where individual or non-individual incidents of alleged or actual unlawful behavior with regard to corruption, bribery, fraud or other business ethics can occur, which can cause significant neg- ative impacts on markets, societies or individuals if not ade- quately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 74) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where inci- dents related to business conduct (e.g. corruption and bribery, fraud, antitrust, protection of whistleblowers, money laundering or other business ethics) can occur. If, in the worst-case scenario, Continental’s due diligence processes were to fail and related se- vere violations were to occur, Continental can face sanctions with substantial penalties and fines or even business-on-hold for the respective business operation. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 75) Sustainability Report – Governance Information"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Governance Information 205 Business Conduct and Corporate Governance (ESRS G1) Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Business Conduct and Corporate Governance Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential negative im- pacts and risks were identified in relation to business conduct and corporate governance. They have been grouped together into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspec- tive which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. › Continental operates in certain markets and business activities in which individual or non-individual incidents of alleged or actual unlawful behavior regarding antitrust regulations can occur that can result in significant negative impact on markets, societies or individuals, if not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 72) › Continental operates in certain markets and business activities where incidents with significant negative impacts on whistleblow- ers could occur if they are not adequately prevented or sufficient protection cannot be ensured. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 73) › Continental operates in certain markets and business activities where individual or non-individual incidents of alleged or actual unlawful behavior with regard to corruption, bribery, fraud or other business ethics can occur, which can cause significant neg- ative impacts on markets, societies or individuals if not ade- quately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 74) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where inci- dents related to business conduct (e.g. corruption and bribery, fraud, antitrust, protection of whistleblowers, money laundering or other business ethics) can occur. If, in the worst-case scenario, Continental’s due diligence processes were to fail and related se- vere violations were to occur, Continental can face sanctions with substantial penalties and fines or even business-on-hold for the respective business operation. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 75) Sustainability Report – Governance Information"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Governance Information 207 Functions of Continental that are most at risk with respect to cor- ruption and bribery are typically departments with third-party con- tacts such as purchasing, sales, human relations, finance, and pub- lic affairs. An important part of Continental’s compliance program is the op- portunity for whistleblowers to report their concerns and griev- ances. A whistleblower can be any stakeholder of Continental, e.g. an employee in Continental’s own workforce, a worker in the value chain, a member of an affected community, a consumer or an end- user. The whistleblowing process is managed by means of a dedi- cated internal rule that – in an end-to-end process – defines the roles and responsibilities along the process steps of reporting, re- port processing and substantiation, investigation and sanctioning, all in line with the German Whistleblower Protection Act and perti- nent international legislation. This rule on whistleblowing also defines a process for reception of (potential) compliance cases, their prompt, independent and objec- tive processing, review and investigation and introduction of measures, especially regarding: › Manipulation of (financial) accounting, › Competition/antitrust law, › Fair and ethical conduct, conflicts of interest, › Corruption/bribery, › Discrimination, harassment, psychological violence, › Environmental rights, › Export and import control, including sanctions, › Human rights, › Information and trade secret protection, › Integrity of the whistleblower system, such as whistleblower retaliation, or violation of confidentiality or the duty to report, › Information technology (IT) security/cybercrime, › Labor rights, including individual and collective rights, › Market manipulation, including insider trading, › Misuse of company property or services, and theft, › Money laundering and financing of terrorism, › Protection of personal data, › Physical violence, › Sabotage and vandalism, › Terrorism, extremism and organized crime, › Occupational safety and health, › Sexual harassment, › Tax evasion and tax fraud, › Technical compliance (product compliance), › (Digital) fraud, embezzlement and other forms of enrichment. Continental provides whistleblowers with three whistleblowing channels: An integrity hotline with international and local phone numbers, an integrity platform (online form) as well as an integrity email address. These channels offer possibilities for confidential and anonymous reporting of (potential) compliance cases. These cases are reviewed by a dedicated team of case managers within the compliance organization who forward the cases to the internal audit departments for investigation if a report can be sub- stantiated. Further information regarding the single steps of the process can be found further below in the subsection Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery. The underlying process is as well defined in an internal rule and also publicly available in the form of a condensed and accessible document named Rules of Procedure. In addition, fixed employees are offered a mandatory web-based basic training on the subject of whistleblowing. Moreover, the possibilities for whistleblowing are regularly communicated to the employees, e. g. through special posters that are hung up in Continental’s locations. In compliance with the Directive (EU) 2019/1937, Continental's Code of Conduct as well as the dedicated internal rule on whistle- blowing define non-tolerance of retaliation of whistleblowers and penalize such behavior. Retaliation of whistleblowers, such as dis- missal, blacklisting, demoting, denying overtime or promotions, dis- ciplining, denying benefits, failing to (re)hire, and intimidation is seri- ous offense and is treated as such. Employees are free to report incidents of (potential) misconduct also to their superiors, human relation departments and other func- tions. However, these people or functions are not reporting chan- nels as per the German Whistleblower Protection Act. Therefore confidentiality, anonymity, and non-retaliation etc. cannot be fully ensured. To promote and further develop the corporate culture, the desired conduct of employees and the self-image of the Continental Group, Continental has developed a clear vision and mission as well as four fundamental corporate values, which form the roots of our cor- porate culture. Furthermore, two internal principles contribute to our corporate culture: our sustainability ambition and the binding Code of Conduct for all employees of Continental. To assess its corporate culture, Continental has developed the OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index as well as the OUR BA- SICS Live Integrity Perception index which evaluate the perceived state of compliance culture. Both indices are calculated on the ba- sis of the annual OUR BASICS Live Employee Survey (further infor- mation can be found in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section of this sustainability report)."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 107 ESRS Section ID Short description Type of IRO Primary time horizon S1 Own workforce 39 Negative impacts on adequate wages and fair payment Potential negative impact Short-term 40 Positive impacts on adequate wages Potential positive impact Short-term 41 Negative impacts on employees’ working time Potential negative impact Short-term 42 Positive impacts on employees’ working time Actual and potential positive impact Potential impact: Short-term 43 Negative impacts on work-life balance Potential negative impact Short-term 44 Negative impacts on the health of own workforce Potential negative impact Short-term 45 Negative impacts on secure employment Actual and potential negative impact Potential impact: Short-term 46 Positive impacts on secure employment Actual and potential positive impact Potential impact: Short-term 47 Positive impacts on social dialogue Actual and potential positive impact Potential impact: Short-term 48 Positive impacts on training and skill development Actual and potential positive impact Potential impact: Short-term 49 Incidents of discrimination in own operations Potential negative impact Short-term 50 Incidents of forced labor in own operations Potential negative impact Short-term 51 Incidents of child labor in own operations Potential negative impact Short-term 52 Infringement of employee's privacy rights Potential negative impact Short-term 53 Penalties due to incidents in connection with working conditions in own operations Risk Medium-term 54 Business interruptions in connection with training in own operations Risk Medium-term 55 Penalties in connection with discrimination in own operations Risk Medium-term 56 Penalties in connection with human rights in own operations Risk Medium-term 57 Loss in sales/boycott in connection with incidents of labor rights in own operations Risk Medium-term S2 Workers in the value chain 58 Negative impacts related to working conditions, equal treatment and other human rights of workers of direct suppliers Potential negative impact Short-term 59 Negative impacts related to working conditions, equal treatment and other human rights of workers of indirect suppliers Potential negative impact Short-term 60 Penalties in connection with violations of labor rights in the value chain Risk Medium-term 61 Higher costs for materials/services related to incidents work related rights in the value chain Risk Medium-term S3 Affected communities 62 Negative impacts on affected communities by own operations Potential negative impact Short-term 63 Negative impact of direct suppliers on affected communities Potential negative impact Short-term 64 Negative impact of indirect suppliers on affected communities Potential negative impact Short-term 65 Penalties in connection with violations of the rights of affected communities Risk Medium-term S4 Consumers and end- users 66 Negative impacts on the personal safety of consumers Potential negative impact Short-term 67 Positive impacts on the personal safety of consumers Actual and potential impact Potential impact: Short-term 68 Infringement of the consumers' privacy rights Potential negative impact Short-term 69 Loss in sales related to protection of consumers (safety) Risk Medium-term 70 Penalties in connection with incidents regarding product safety Risk Medium-term 71 Growth arising from safety of consumers Opportunity Long-term G1 Business conduct and corporate governance 72 Antitrust law incidents in own operations Potential negative impact Short-term 73 Negative impacts on whistleblowers in the entire value chain Potential negative impact Short-term 74 Corruption, bribery, or fraud incidents within own operations Potential negative impact Short-term 75 Penalties in connection with business conduct incidents Risk Short-term"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 108 Specifics of the IRO Assessment for Certain Topic-Related Sections To ensure the comprehensiveness and robustness of the results, Its IRO assessment for each topic-related section was performed fol- lowing the principles and methodologies as described above. Fur- thermore, additional factors were taken into account for individual standards in accordance with the ESRS. Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to climate change The negative impacts related to climate change were evaluated based on the reported GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) and the positive impact with the interest on the evolution of the market trend toward low carbon vehicles. Regarding risks and opportuni- ties, specific risk and opportunity scenarios have been developed and evaluated as part of the IRO assessment which are defined in the Description of methodology and assumptions subsection. The concrete scenarios are reflected in the descriptions of the respec- tive IROs in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. These include extreme scenarios with low emissions for transition risks (see risks 13, 14 and 15) in which a 1.5°C pathway is not exceeded or only exceeded to a limited extent, and extreme scenarios with high emissions for physical risks (see risks 6, 7 and 9). The scenarios are not detailed climate scenarios based on external sources and com- pared with the current state of scientific knowledge but focus in simplified form on the relevant risk and opportunity drivers. With regard to scenarios for transition risks, these are regulatory and market developments in particular. For the scenarios relating to physical risks, the main drivers are an increase in extreme weather events and long-term climate change (for example in terms of tem- perature). From Continental’s perspective, the selected scenarios therefore address the relevant drivers of risks and opportunities, and thus also cover the relevant scenarios as defined by the ESRS. For methodological reasons, the scenarios go beyond the consider- ations of general risk management and the consolidated financial statements, particularly with regard to time horizons and the gross assessment perspective. The evaluation of risks included in the analysis of climate-related hazards that might possibly affect Continental’s business activities covers own operations as well as the value chain. Climate-related hazards include, in particular, the increase in extreme weather events and long-term climate change, for example in terms of temperature. The exposure and sensitivity of assets and business activities to the identified climate-related hazards was considered in the IRO assess- ment. The assessment is coordinated with general risk manage- ment. The magnitudes of the financial effects of the gross physical risks are reflected in the descriptions of the associated risks in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. By integrating the scenario anal- ysis into the IRO assessment, the same time horizons were used. The standardized time horizons of the IRO assessment do not di- rectly correspond to the various expected lifetimes of Continental’s assets. The “short-term” and “medium-term” levels in the IRO assess- ment essentially correspond to the time horizons of annual plan- ning and long-term planning, respectively, in the financial planning. Further information on the time horizon of long-term planning can be found, for example, in the disclosures on impairment losses in Note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. In addi- tion, further information on the consideration of climate risks in ac- counting can be found in Note 2 of the notes to the consolidated fi- nancial statements under Impact of the macroeconomic environment and climate-related aspects on accounting in the reporting period. For the identification of climate-related transition risks, a climate scenario with a moderate pathway towards carbon neutrality at the latest by 2050 (see risks 8, 10, 11, 12), as well as an extreme sce- nario with no or only limited overshoot of 1.5°C pathway was con- sidered (see risks 13, 14 and 15). Both scenarios include increasing regulation, but in case of no or only a limited overshoot of 1.5°C being allowed, it was assumed that full carbon neutrality of the global economy would be enforced to be achieved already in the medium term. The exposure and sensitivity of assets and business activities to the identified gross transition risks were qualitatively assessed in the IRO assessment. The process was based in particular on a screen- ing of the product portfolio with regard to compatibility with a tran- sition to climate neutrality. By applying the IRO methodology, the assumptions regarding the probability, extent and duration of the transition events were taken into account. The IRO assessment concluded that Continental’s assets, business activities and product portfolio are fundamentally capable of transition and do not lead to any significant transition risks. The magnitudes of the financial effects of the gross transition risks are reflected in the descriptions of the as- sociated risks in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. Due to the in- tegration into the IRO assessment, the same time horizons apply. Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to pollution The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts in relation to pollution in own operations, supply chain and down- stream value chain included a screening of Continental’s locations and business activities under consideration of the respective man- agement approaches as well as the related metrics. The identifica- tion and assessment were integrated in the impact, risk and oppor- tunity assessment following the described methodology. The as- sessment was also compared with external data sources. Continental took into account the perspective of the affected com- munities regarding pollution through workshops with proxies from internal functions who represented their interests. The information received was taken into account in the development of the respec- tive management approaches, in particular for own operations. There was no direct consultation with affected communities."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 109 Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to water and marine resources The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts, risks and opportunities regarding water and marine resources re- lated to own operations, supply chain and downstream value chain included a screening of Continental’s locations and business activi- ties under consideration of the respective management ap- proaches as well as the related metrics. The identification and as- sessment were integrated in the impact, risk and opportunity as- sessment following the described methodology. The assessment was also compared with external data sources and revealed that there are no material IROs for this sustainability matter. The aspects relating to water pollution were considered as part of the IRO assessment under the topic of Pollution. Continental took into account the perspectives of the affected com- munities regarding water and marine resources through workshops with proxies from internal functions who represented their inter- ests. There was no direct consultation with affected communities. Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts regarding biodiversity and ecosystems related to Continental’s own operations, supply chain and downstream value chain were inte- grated in the impact, risk and opportunity assessment following the described methodology. The assessment was also compared with external data sources (e.g. the Encore database). The identification and assessment of potential dependencies on bi- odiversity and ecosystems was included in the evaluation of risks and opportunities. The focus was on whether Continental, its prod- ucts or its value chain are specifically dependent on biogenic mate- rials that are dependent on specific ecosystems. The process explicitly considered transition and physical risks (see risks 30 and 31) and transition opportunities (see opportunity 32) and included a consideration of geographies, industries and, in particular, the risk driver of deforestation. Continental took the macro level into consideration when identify- ing and assessing the IROs, including potential systemic risks, i.e. risks inherent to the industry and expert assessments. Shared biological resources and ecosystems have not been specifi- cally addressed as a distinct element in the IRO assessment as they are not considered relevant for Continental’s value chain. In terms of biodiversity and ecosystems, the IRO assessment did not include direct consultations with affected communities at spe- cific locations. Nevertheless, the defined management approach re- garding deforestation includes consultation with local stakeholders’ communities through an industry initiative. Continental took into account the perspectives of the potentially af- fected communities regarding biodiversity and ecosystems through workshops with proxies from internal functions who repre- sented their interests. The information received was taken into ac- count in the development of the respective management ap- proaches, in particular for own operations. There was no direct con- sultation with affected communities. Continental mitigates negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosys- tems as described in the respective management approaches in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. Continental has locations in and near biodiversity-sensitive areas. In the IRO assessment, Continental concluded that the impacts of these sites on biodiversity and ecosystems are not material. In the IRO assessment, Continental came to the conclusion that, be- yond the management approaches described in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section, no specific mitigation measures are required in connection with biodiversity. Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to resource use and circular economy The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular econ- omy, in particular regarding resource inflows, resource outflows and waste in Continental’s own operations, the supply chain and down- stream value chain included a screening of Continental’s locations in relation to waste and business activities, especially for products and materials purchased by Continental. The identification and as- sessment took into account information from the respective man- agement approaches as well as related metrics. The identification and assessment were integrated in the impact, risk and opportunity assessment following the described methodology. Continental took into account the perspective of the affected com- munities regarding resource use and circular economy through workshops with proxies from internal functions who represented their interests. The information received was taken into account in the development of the respective management approaches, in particular for own operations. There was no direct consultation with affected communities. Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to business conduct and corporate governance The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts, risks and opportunities related to business conduct included, in particular, the consideration of Continental’s types of business ac- tivities, geographies, sectors and types of transactions as well as the respective management approaches and associated metrics."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 203 Consequently, Continental does not engage with consumers or end-users on human rights. Accordingly, the management approach is not based on interna- tionally recognized human rights standards. Nevertheless, Continental’s whistleblowing channels such as the in- tegrity hotline are open to consumers and end-users as well. The interests of consumers and end-users are the key drivers for the management approach. Their wishes and concerns regarding personal safety, reliability of the vehicle, comfort and convenience or cost efficiency are not only relevant for Continental but also for Continental’s business partners. The engagement with consumers and their representatives takes place through various formats in- cluding regular surveys as well as trade fairs. Understanding these interests helps Continental to develop and to place products and systems that meet the needs and expectations of the consumers and end-users. Continental actively communicates about safe mobility in various formats, also in the style of public advocacy to improve safe mobil- ity (e.g. via social media). Internal engagement also includes a vari- ety of formats. Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts Due to Continental’s role as a supplier to other companies, direct processes for engaging with consumers and end-users as well as their representatives about actual and potential impacts are primar- ily established for tires replacement market. Continental uses mainly customer service centers which take care on customers’ re- quests regarding product or service issues. In addition, for any con- cerns regarding integrity topics, Continental’s integrity hotline is available to consumers and end-users via our website, by tele- phone or email. Continental gains insights into the perspectives of consumers and end-users on actual or potential concrete impacts by means of di- rect feedback, for example through customer service centers. In ad- dition, Continental also receives feedback from their business part- ners about their end-users. Consumers and end-users that are par- ticularly vulnerable to impacts or are marginalized (e.g. children) are not a specific focus area when it comes to obtaining insights into the perspectives of consumers and end-users. The combination of direct and indirect engagement with consum- ers and end-users leads to an engagement at different stages of the product life cycle. While the interaction in the replacement mar- ket and the indirect interaction via customers takes place on a con- tinuous basis, event and incident-based interaction is by nature ir- regular. This engagement and consideration of the views of con- sumers and end-users is described in the respective management approaches, particularly related to technical and product compli- ance (e.g. with regard to responsibilities or monitoring of effective- ness), as it constitutes a relevant input for those management ap- proaches, through – among others – the related legal requirements. Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns Grievance channels for consumers and end-users Continental’s processes and channels to cooperate on remediation of negative impacts on consumers and end-users, and also to raise concerns, are mainly the customer service centers of the group sectors and as well as Continental’s integrity hotline. The customer service centers are specific channels for consumers and end-users for any product-related issues. Furthermore, the in- tegrity hotline is an additional channel for integrity-related product issues. However, it is not intended as a channel to report discontent with Continental’s products. The availability of Continental's integrity hotline is pointed out in Continental`s business relationships via our Business Partner Code of Conduct, which is also publicly available on our website. The tracking and monitoring of concerns raised through customer service centers takes place directly in the customer service centers and through related processes. The tracking and monitoring of the integrity-related product issues raised and dealt with was described in the process for tC case management which is part of the man- agement approach to technical and product compliance. Further information on how Continental ensures the effectiveness of the in- tegrity hotline can be found in the Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) section in this sustainability report. Continental does not explicitly assess the affected consumers’ and end-users’ knowledge of these channels and their trust in them. Further information on protection of Continental’s integrity hotline users from retaliation can be found in the information on Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) in this sustainability report. Remediation processes Continental’s general approach to remedy in cases of material neg- ative impacts on consumers and/or end-users is in line with na- tional regulations. In case of individual negative product-related incidents, Continental follows the regulations of the respective national authorities and ini- tiates, if required, e.g. recalls either on its own or indirectly via re- calls by customers that place the final product on the market. This may also include remedial measures for consumers or end-users. The effectiveness of the measures is assessed as part of the de- scribed management approach to technical and product-related compliance."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 109 Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to water and marine resources The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts, risks and opportunities regarding water and marine resources re- lated to own operations, supply chain and downstream value chain included a screening of Continental’s locations and business activi- ties under consideration of the respective management ap- proaches as well as the related metrics. The identification and as- sessment were integrated in the impact, risk and opportunity as- sessment following the described methodology. The assessment was also compared with external data sources and revealed that there are no material IROs for this sustainability matter. The aspects relating to water pollution were considered as part of the IRO assessment under the topic of Pollution. Continental took into account the perspectives of the affected com- munities regarding water and marine resources through workshops with proxies from internal functions who represented their inter- ests. There was no direct consultation with affected communities. Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts regarding biodiversity and ecosystems related to Continental’s own operations, supply chain and downstream value chain were inte- grated in the impact, risk and opportunity assessment following the described methodology. The assessment was also compared with external data sources (e.g. the Encore database). The identification and assessment of potential dependencies on bi- odiversity and ecosystems was included in the evaluation of risks and opportunities. The focus was on whether Continental, its prod- ucts or its value chain are specifically dependent on biogenic mate- rials that are dependent on specific ecosystems. The process explicitly considered transition and physical risks (see risks 30 and 31) and transition opportunities (see opportunity 32) and included a consideration of geographies, industries and, in particular, the risk driver of deforestation. Continental took the macro level into consideration when identify- ing and assessing the IROs, including potential systemic risks, i.e. risks inherent to the industry and expert assessments. Shared biological resources and ecosystems have not been specifi- cally addressed as a distinct element in the IRO assessment as they are not considered relevant for Continental’s value chain. In terms of biodiversity and ecosystems, the IRO assessment did not include direct consultations with affected communities at spe- cific locations. Nevertheless, the defined management approach re- garding deforestation includes consultation with local stakeholders’ communities through an industry initiative. Continental took into account the perspectives of the potentially af- fected communities regarding biodiversity and ecosystems through workshops with proxies from internal functions who repre- sented their interests. The information received was taken into ac- count in the development of the respective management ap- proaches, in particular for own operations. There was no direct con- sultation with affected communities. Continental mitigates negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosys- tems as described in the respective management approaches in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. Continental has locations in and near biodiversity-sensitive areas. In the IRO assessment, Continental concluded that the impacts of these sites on biodiversity and ecosystems are not material. In the IRO assessment, Continental came to the conclusion that, be- yond the management approaches described in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section, no specific mitigation measures are required in connection with biodiversity. Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to resource use and circular economy The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular econ- omy, in particular regarding resource inflows, resource outflows and waste in Continental’s own operations, the supply chain and down- stream value chain included a screening of Continental’s locations in relation to waste and business activities, especially for products and materials purchased by Continental. The identification and as- sessment took into account information from the respective man- agement approaches as well as related metrics. The identification and assessment were integrated in the impact, risk and opportunity assessment following the described methodology. Continental took into account the perspective of the affected com- munities regarding resource use and circular economy through workshops with proxies from internal functions who represented their interests. The information received was taken into account in the development of the respective management approaches, in particular for own operations. There was no direct consultation with affected communities. Specifics of the IRO assessment in relation to business conduct and corporate governance The identification and assessment of potential and actual impacts, risks and opportunities related to business conduct included, in particular, the consideration of Continental’s types of business ac- tivities, geographies, sectors and types of transactions as well as the respective management approaches and associated metrics."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 113 Strategy Strategy, business model and value chain Key elements of the overall strategy with regard to sustainability Continental’s strategy was further developed in 2020. The organi- zational structure and the management processes were systemati- cally aligned with three strategic pillars: › Strengthening of operational performance, › Differentiation of the portfolio, › Consistent exploitation of opportunities. Sustainability is anchored in the strategy in a general sense as well as in the “Consistent exploitation of opportunities” pillar and is a key element of the strategic focus on offering safe, intelligent and sus- tainable solutions. Sustainability is also a key component of Conti- nental’s vision: CREATING VALUE FOR A BETTER TOMORROW. Sus- tainability is therefore a decisive factor for our value creation para- digm. As such, it is reflected in the strategies of Continental’s group sectors and consequently has an impact on Continental’s business models and the value chain. All material impacts, risks and opportunities are addressed in Conti- nental’s strategic framework. The respective elements the strategy especially also comprise the objectives of the management ap- proaches as described in the respective topic-related sections. Where relevant, Continental’s main challenges are part of the de- tailed descriptions of impacts, risks and opportunities. Critical solu- tions or projects are either addressed by the management ap- proaches, specific metrics, targets or key actions. In our Group sustainability ambition, we describe how Continental wants to shape this transformation in the relevant topic areas with respect to sustainability in order to mitigate negative impacts, rein- force positive impacts, reduce risks and seize opportunities. The overarching ambition includes specific ambitions for: › Carbon neutrality along our entire value chain, › Emission-free mobility and industry, › Circular economy, › Responsible value chain. In addition, it defines eight sustainability essentials representing the backbone of our sustainability management. The essentials include for example good working conditions as well as a sustainable man- agement practice. The four ambitions apply to the entire Continental Group and in some cases also address parts of the value chain. Concrete objec- tives, ambitions and public sustainability targets are described in detail in the respective topic-related sections. Description of business model and value chain Continental offers a broad product portfolio, especially for vehicles and industry. The Automotive group sector offers technologies for safety, brake, chassis, motion and motion-control systems. Its portfolio also in- cludes innovative solutions for assisted and automated driving, dis- play and operating technologies, camera solutions for the vehicle interior as well as intelligent information and communication tech- nology associated with the mobility services of fleet operators and commercial vehicle manufacturers. Comprehensive activities relat- ing to vehicle connectivity, architecture and electronics, as well as high-performance computers and software solutions, round off the range of products and services. The Tires group sector offers a premium portfolio of innovative tire solutions for the passenger car, truck, bus, two-wheeler and spe- cialty segment, as well as intelligent products and services related to tires and the promotion of sustainability. For specialist dealers and fleet managers, Tires provides digital tire monitoring and tire management systems, in addition to other services, which keep fleets mobile and increase their efficiency. With its tires, the group sector contributes to safe, efficient and environmentally friendly mobility. The ContiTech group sector draws on its materials expertise to de- velop solutions for industrial applications made from rubber, metal and textiles. Its broad portfolio of hoses, conveyor belts, air springs and drive belts is designed for the operating conditions in industrial environments, which can be challenging. At the same time, Conti- Tech offers surface materials with an appealing look and feel for home and vehicle interiors. ContiTech’s industrial growth areas are primarily in energy, mining, agriculture and construction, as well as exterior and interior design. The contract manufacturing of products by Continental companies for the Schaeffler Group/Vitesco Technologies (until the merger on October 1, 2024) is consolidated in the Contract Manufacturing group sector. This contract manufacturing is not intended to be a permanent situation; rather, the operational separation of produc- tion will continue to be promoted and the volume of contract man- ufacturing reduced. The automotive industry is Continental’s most important customer group in terms of sales. Sales to dealers and end-users accounts for the largest share of business in the Tires group sector. The Conti- Tech group sector also serves a diversified customer base covering e.g. agriculture, mining and interior fittings. Further information on the distribution of sales can be found in the notes to the consoli- dated financial statements in Note 6, while further information on the group sectors is presented in the Development of the group sectors section in this management report."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 112 The following documents regulate the roles and responsibilities re- garding sustainability-related topics, including impacts, risks and opportunities. Most of the documents are not specific to sustaina- bility, but are relevant to the management of sustainability: › Articles of Incorporation of Continental AG › German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) (including the duties, con- stitution and due diligence obligations of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board) › By-Laws for the Executive Board (including in the annex to the business organization plan regarding the areas of responsibility of the members of the Executive Board, including sustainability) › By-Laws for the Supervisory Board (internal rules of procedure of the Supervisory Board, governing in particular the reporting of the Management Board to the Supervisory Board on sustainabil- ity issues) › Continental Sustainability Rule (regarding sustainability govern- ance within the Continental Group) Sustainability targets are set to address material impacts, risks and opportunities and to achieve Continental’s sustainability ambition. The Sustainability Steering Committee adopts public sustainability targets at Group level and in relation to the Group. The responsibility of the Sustainability Steering Committee also in- cludes any changes to targets. The public sustainability targets are set and adopted together with the key actions and the corresponding metrics to measure the im- plementation progress. The metrics are reported in the sustainabil- ity report and are regularly monitored by the Sustainability Steering Committee. Consideration of sustainability matters in corporate supervision Group Sustainability is responsible for adequately informing the administrative, management and supervisory bodies on a regular basis about the results of the assessment of the sustainability IROs and their corresponding impacts in accordance with the described governance structure. Continental’s business strategy and risk minimization measures are aligned with the identified material impacts, risks and opportunities as described in the respective management approaches. Where rel- evant, trade-offs between various impacts, risks and opportunities are taken into account in the strategic processes. The Sustainability Steering Committee, the Audit Committee and the Sustainability Working Group of the Supervisory Board address sustainability matters in regular meetings. The methodology and the results of the IRO assessment were presented in particular to the Sustainability Steering Committee, the Supervisory Board’s Sus- tainability Working Group and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Com- mittee. In addition, the Sustainability Steering Committee formally confirmed the results of the IRO assessment at its meeting in Feb- ruary 2025. The Sustainability Steering Committee comprises the entire Execu- tive Board, Group Sustainability and other functions at the group and sector levels. The Audit Committee and the Sustainability Working Group are informed on sustainability topics by the CSO and Group Sustainability. In 2024, the Sustainability Steering Committee and the Sustainabil- ity Working Group each held four meetings. The Audit Committee addressed sustainability matters in three meetings. Group Sustaina- bility maintains a close dialogue with all the bodies outside of for- mal meetings as well. All material IROs were presented to the Sustainability Steering Committee, the Audit Committee and the Sustainability Working Group. The Sustainability Working Group in particular was actively involved in the IRO assessment at two meetings."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 114 Continental wants its products to contribute to the success of its customers and have a positive impact on society as a whole. Im- pact-related expected benefits for customers and other stakehold- ers are described in the respective impacts. Investors benefit from Continental’s activities as a listed company through the total return. Continental processes a wide range of raw materials and semifin- ished products, including electronics and electromechanical com- ponents, mechanical components, natural rubber and oil-based chemicals as well as synthetic rubber and carbon black. These are sourced from a diversified global supplier base. Continental’s deeper supply chain – the indirect suppliers of Continental – in- cludes the respective upstream value chains of this global supplier base, e.g. right down to natural rubber farms and ore mines. Corporate customers account for a large proportion of Conti- nental’s business. In these businesses, Continental acts as both a di- rect supplier and indirect supplier in markets with dominant play- ers, particularly in the automotive sector. At the same time, the sup- ply chain consists of both small suppliers and large companies with a dominant market position. The IRO assessment, the descriptions of impacts, risks and oppor- tunities as well as the related management approaches consider the relevant aspects of Continental’s value chain including relevant product groups, markets and customer groups. Continental is represented with its business activities in various re- gions of the world: Own employees (as at December 31) 2024 Germany 38,910 Europe excluding Germany 64,060 North America 33,893 Asia-Pacific 37,412 Other countries 9,083 Total number own employees 183,358 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices and leased employees are excluded. - These data are collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 99 Process for Identifying and Assessing Material IROs Description of methodology and assumptions Continental assesses its impacts, risks and opportunities according to the ESRS methodology requirements on double materiality (IRO assessment). Continental’s 2024 IRO assessment has been conduc- ted simultaneously with both impact materiality (inside-out) and financial materiality (outside-in) perspectives. Identification and creation of the longlist of IROs The list of sustainability matters of the ESRS 1.AR16 formed the starting point of the identification of impacts, risks and opportuni- ties. In addition for risks and opportunities, certain event types (e.g. fines, loss of sales or growth of sales) were considered. These initial scenarios and descriptions of IROs have been identified at topic, sub-topic or sub-sub-topic level and have been aggregated when- ever it was relevant and appropriate considering Continental’s busi- ness activities, value chain, geographical location, industries, and business models. Company-specific aspects were also considered, all of which could be assigned to the predefined list of sustainability matters. These scenarios specify the matters further for Conti- nental’s value chain and were partially split into individual scenarios for own operations, upstream and/or downstream value chain, whenever relevant. Initial gross assessment In an initial step, the IRO scenarios were centrally assessed from a gross perspective. The gross perspective assesses impacts, risks and opportunities in a scenario that does not yet consider the exist- ing management approaches of Continental, as described in the re- spective topic-related sections. This initial gross assessment com- prised various assessments of the severity and magnitude of the effect as well as the likelihood. This assessment was based on the judgement and sustainability expertise of subject matter experts at Group level. Validation and assessment In a second step, the longlist of IRO scenarios was assessed from the perspectives of relevant stakeholders. In multiple workshops, different functions of Continental acted as proxies of internal and external affected stakeholders, subject matter experts and/or users of sustainability information. The participants of the workshops re- ceived the longlist and further information on the methodology in advance of the workshops and were trained in the methodology during the workshops. Each workshop included a validation, update and/or extension of the longlist. The IRO scenarios were then defined in greater detail, the gross assessment was validated or updated as appropriate, fur- ther information was collected and an initial net assessment was made. The net assessment considers the management approaches of Continental, as described in the respective topic-related sections."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 101 Impact materiality The impact materiality is based on the severity or magnitude of the effect of the impact. In the case of potential impacts, the probability was also assessed, but not taken into account in the evaluation of materiality. A five-point scale from “very low” to “very high” was used for both aspects. The assessment of the severity or magnitude of the effect is based on the following factors: › the scale, › the scope, and › for negative impacts, also the irremediable character of the im- pact. The threshold for material impacts follows the general described methodology for thresholds, as laid out in this subsection under Consolidation. Financial materiality The integrated approach of the IRO assessment allows Continental to assess risks and opportunities together with the topically related impacts in a combined view. Thereby it was possible to consider in- terdependencies between risks and opportunities with impacts. In the topic-related sections, the detailed descriptions of impacts, risks and opportunities are grouped into related IRO clusters (e.g. all IROs on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in one IRO cluster). Also risks and opportunities were assessed according to the level of severity effect and magnitude of financial impacts and the likeli- hood of occurrence in the short-, medium-, or long-term. The finan- cial impacts were assessed using semi-quantitative guidelines that were defined in consultation with Group Risk Management. Five levels from “very low” to “very high” were used as the rating scale. The financial impacts considered include effects on Continental’s fi- nancial position, financial performance, cash flows, access to financ- ing, cost of capital and financial outlook. The threshold for financial materiality follows the general described methodology for thresh- olds, as laid out in this subsection under Consolidation. Group Risk Management was closely involved in all steps of the IRO assessment. Before the results were provisionally confirmed, they were iteratively compared with the company’s risk inventory to en- sure complete consistency. Further details on the alignment are de- scribed in the subsection Integration of IROs in risk management. The Sustainability Steering Committee was involved in milestones of the IRO assessment, acted as a supervisory body and formally confirmed the results. In addition, the Group’s Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) Committee in particular, which manages general risk management, was indirectly involved in the process and was informed in particular about the IRO assessment and the interrela- tions with risk management. Integration of IROs in risk management The IRO assessment has taken into account both the assessments based on the ESRS requirements and the assessments as part of enterprise risk management in accordance with the relevant re- quirements. To this end, the IRO assessment is continuously coordi- nated with general risk management. In view of the major differences in the required methods, con- sistency checks were carried out. The sustainability-related risks compatible with the methodology relevant for enterprise risk man- agement have been aligned with the risks documented in the gen- eral risk assessment reporting system. Impacts not directly related to an identified risk were not considered in the enterprise risk man- agement. Further information on risk management can be found in the man- agement report in the Main characteristics of the risk management system subsection in the subsection on Continental’s internal con- trol and risk management system in the Report on risks and oppor- tunities section. The outcome of the IRO assessment confirmed the topic-related fo- cus of Continental’s Sustainability Ambition anchored in Conti- nental’s strategy. The concrete effects of impacts, risks and oppor- tunities on Continental’s business model, value chain, strategy and decision-making as well as how Continental responds and plans to respond to these effects are addressed in more detail in the de- scriptions of the IROs and management approaches in the respec- tive topic-related section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 170 Own Workforce (ESRS S1) Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Own Workforce Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative and positive impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in relation to own workforce. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management ap- proaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate manage- ment approaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is re- quired. As positive impacts as well as opportunities are strength- ened by Continental’s management approaches, the descriptions are presented taking a net perspective which, for methodical rea- sons, considers the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Labor standards › In 2024, Continental recorded individual incidents related to working time in its own workforce. Beyond the confirmed inci- dents, Continental operates in countries, certain markets and business activities in which significant negative impacts related to working time can occur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 41) › Continental operates in countries, certain markets and business activities in which Continental’s working time arrangements pre- sumably have a significant positive impact on its own workforce. Assuming that this can put pressure on other market participants to also introduce higher standards, this could also have a positive impact on the market environment. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 42) › Continental has recorded individual incidents of discrimination within own workforce for 2024. Beyond the confirmed incidents, Continental operates in certain markets and business activities where significant negative impacts related to discrimination within own workforce due to gender, age, race, skin color, health status, disability, social or ethnic origin, nationality, sexual orienta- tion, political opinion, religion or beliefs, or any other characteris- tics protected by applicable laws and regulations can occur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 49) › Continental operates in certain markets and business activities in which significant negative impacts related to forced labor (includ- ing debt bondage) can occur if they are not adequately pre- vented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 50) › Continental operates in certain markets and business activities where significant negative impacts related to child labor and young workers can occur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 51) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where potential incidents related to labor laws, other regulations or con- tractual agreements with customers regarding working condi- tions and labor standards could occur within the own operations. If, in the worst-case scenario, due diligence processes were to fail and serious violations were to occur, Continental can face sanc- tions with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 53) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where potential incidents can occur in relation to harassment or discrim- ination in the workplace in own operations. If, in the worst-case scenario, due diligence processes were to fail and serious viola- tions were to occur, Continental could face sanctions with sub- stantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the re- spective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 55) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where potential incidents can occur in relation to forced labor (including debt bondage), child labor and other human rights. If, in the worst-case scenario, due diligence processes were to fail and seri- ous violations were to occur, Continental can face sanctions with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 56) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where potential incidents can occur in relation to forced labor (including debt bondage), child labor and other human rights. If, in the worst-case scenario, due diligence processes were to fail and seri- ous violations were to occur, Continental could face potential boy- cotts, which in turn, if managed reasonably, could lead to critical sales losses in the respective business activities, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 57) Sustainability Report – Social Information"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 171 Adequate wages › Continental has recorded individual incidents within own work- force related to inadequate wages and unfair payment in 2024. Beyond the confirmed incidents, Continental operates in coun- tries, certain markets and business activities where significant negative impacts related to inadequate pay or unfair pay can oc- cur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 39) › Continental operates in countries, certain markets and business activities in which it can be assumed that Continental has some positive impact on the market environment by paying adequate wages if it is assumed that this could put pressure on other mar- ket participants to also pay adequate wages. This positive impact is seen as relevant to the information needs of users of sustaina- bility reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 40) Work-life balance › Continental operates in industries in which significant challenges to the work-life balance of its own employees (e.g. in connection with shift models) can arise if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 43) Training and skill development › Continental provides training and measures for skill development in countries, certain markets and business activities where it is as- sumed that the implemented training and measures for skill de- velopment for Continental’s own workforce have a significant pos- itive impact on its own workforce as well as on the market envi- ronment, as this could put pressure on other market participants to also offer training and measures for skill development on this scale. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 48) › Continental operates in markets with strong competition, includ- ing for skilled workers. If the company does not succeed in recruit- ing, retaining and training qualified employees or managing em- ployee turnover appropriately, this can lead to significant interrup- tions and productivity losses in the respective business activities, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 54) Secure employment and social dialogue › Continental operates in countries, certain markets, industries and business activities that are undergoing a considerable transition, which is already having a moderate negative impact on job secu- rity. The transition could also have substantial negative impacts on employees in connection with job security (e.g. due to transfor- mation projects, site closures or restructuring), if they are not ade- quately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 45) › Continental creates jobs and provides secure employment and qualifications in countries, markets and certain business activities where it is assumed that this has significant positive impacts for the employees and the local markets. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 46) › Continental maintains social dialogue through various channels and takes into account in particular the representation of its own workforce as well as employee participation, e.g. in the form of employee surveys, which is expected to have a significant posi- tive impact, particularly on its own employees and their repre- sentatives. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 47) Employee privacy › Continental processes vast amounts of employee data in own op- erations. In particular, given the size of Continental’s workforce and the company’s global presence, significant potential viola- tions of employees’ data protection rights can occur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 52) Occupational safety and health › Continental operates in industries and types of operations in which there are numerous potential sources of health hazards for employees, particularly with regard to the use of machinery, phys- ically demanding workplaces, accidents and the handling of haz- ardous substances, ergonomics and psychological risks. In 2024, Continental recorded accidents and health-related incidents. Be- yond the recorded accidents and confirmed incidents, significant negative impacts on the health of own workforce could occur if these are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 44)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 172 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Own Workforce In the IRO assessment, Continental identified both actual and po- tential positive and negative impacts on its own workforce in the topic areas of labor standards, adequate wages, work-life balance, training and skill development, secure employment and social dia- logue, employee privacy, and occupational safety and health as de- scribed at the beginning of this section. These impacts are associ- ated with Continental’s strategy and business model and relate in particular to countries, certain markets, industries, and business ac- tivities that are critically or significantly exposed to such impacts. The identified actual and potential impacts on own workforce are important for adapting the strategy and business model. The devel- opment of measures and strategic decisions based on the identi- fied impacts are described as part of the management approaches. As indicated by the respective descriptions, all identified risks re- sult directly from identified actual and potential impacts as well as from the dependence on own workforce as an important intangi- ble resource. They are also based on the breadth and diversity of countries, markets, industries and business activities in which Continental operates. Therefore, the risks are inherently linked to Continental’s strategy and business model. The consolidation at group level of the assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities for own workforce includes Continental’s entire workforce. Links to business activities, the product portfolio and the value chain are taken into account where relevant. In general, our activities have an actual or potential positive or neg- ative impact on the entire workforce of Continental – both own em- ployees and non-employees. The group of non-employees also in- cludes temporary workers and subcontractors. The IRO assessment led to a deeper understanding of which parts of the workforce are at greater risk of harm based on particular ac- tivities, contexts or characteristics. This understanding results in particular from the consideration of industry specifics, regional characteristics and potential discriminatory features as part of the IRO assessment, as described in the respective IROs. Continental operates in many industries, countries and markets worldwide and is therefore also represented in regions where there is considerable potential for negative impacts with regard to child labor, in particular India, Brazil and South Africa. The same also applies to forced labor (including so called debt bondage), in particular in China, Mexico and India. The assessment of the material negative impacts regarding own workforce were integrated in the general impact, risk and oppor- tunity assessment following the defined methodology (see the Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities subsection in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section). The methodology takes into consideration two perspectives: All negative impacts are to be considered widespread or systemic as they relate to countries, certain markets, industries and business activities where Continental operates. In addition, the methodol- ogy takes into account event-based actual negative impacts wherever the impact description contains a reference to concrete actual incidents. The reported positive impacts on the workforce are related to the activities described under the management approach for the re- spective IRO cluster. The material impacts on own workforce are not directly related to changes resulting from sustainability, e.g. the transition towards zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles. Material risks arising from the impacts and dependencies on own workforce relate to Continental’s entire workforce."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 173 Management Approaches to Own Workforce This section describes the management approaches that Continen- tal pursues in order to address the material impacts on own work- force and the associated material risks. These are subdivided into the following areas: labor standards, adequate wages, work-life bal- ance, training and skill development, secure employment and social dialogue, employee privacy, and occupational safety and health. Labor standards Continental has defined an approach for the management of labor standards for its own workforce that is intended to prevent and re- duce actual and potential negative impacts and risks as well as strengthen positive impacts with regard to working time, discrimi- nation, forced labor and child labor as well as other human rights and working conditions. This is part of the “Responsible Value Chain Due Diligence System” (RVCDDS). Continental is thus pursuing the ambition of creating good work- ing conditions and a 100 % responsible value chain by 2050 at the latest. As part of the RVCDDS, Continental has adopted so- called Responsible Value Chain Commitments (RVC commit- ments), which include the following for the area of labor stand- ards: no child labor, fair payment, equal treatment, no forced la- bor or modern slavery, freedom of association and working con- ditions, including working time. With the specific RVC commitment for equal treatment, Continental strives for a working environment that is free from discrimination, including harassment, in any form. This is an integral part of the management system and is supported by dedicated diversity man- agement aimed at promoting equal opportunities and advancing diversity and inclusion. The commitment explicitly addresses creating a working environ- ment free from any form of discrimination based on gender, age, race, skin color, health status, disability, social or ethnic origin, na- tionality, sexual orientation, political opinion, religion or beliefs or any other characteristics protected by applicable laws and regulations. The topic of inclusion and actions for people from vulnerable groups of employees are also covered by this commitment. The management approach also covers the prevention of potential trafficking in human beings, forced labor or compulsory labor and child labor. Continental firmly rejects any form of child labor and does not employ people under the age of 15 or under the age at which compulsory schooling ends or under the applicable coun- try’s minimum age for employment, whichever is greatest. Young employees under the age of 18 need to be treated with special dili- gence. Any form of forced labor, modern slavery, debt bondage, trafficking, or any other form of labor not conducted voluntarily is also firmly rejected. Workers must be provided with documented employment terms or an offer of employment in a language they are able to understand. Migrant workers need to be treated with special diligence. The management approach directly covers Continental’s own em- ployees, while the RVC commitments also include non-employees. Overall accountability for the RVCDDS, including the RVC commit- ments for labor standards, lies with the Executive Board. The latter has appointed a human rights officer who manages the system. The specific human relations (HR) frameworks for labor standards are defined and implemented by the respective HR departments along the company structure. Responsibility for the implementation of the labor standards lies with the management of the respective legal entities. The system is comprised of many processes that include strategy development and implementation, the management of regulations, impact and risk management, incident management (including whistleblowing) and training. In order to monitor the effectiveness of the system, a multi-stage process has been set up based on the “three lines” model. The first line is formed by the local operational HR departments. They implement the operational tasks at business level and at the location in accordance with the RVCDDS and the associated HR rules. The second line, represented by non-opera- tional HR departments and roles, oversees the system, roles and re- sponsibilities as well as their effectiveness. The third line is Conti- nental’s internal audit function, which performs an independent evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the RVCDDS. Specific preventive and remedial measures are defined for the re- spective RVC commitments for the area of labor standards, which are implemented by the legal entities, such as self-assessments, the implementation of appropriate rules and instructions, the careful analysis of the working environment with regard to aspects that could cause harm, the implementation of improvement measures and control mechanisms, as well as raising awareness, especially among managers. With regard to working time, Continental implemented further dedi- cated processes with regard to flexible working models as stated in detail in the management approach to work-life balance. As part of an annual review process with the Executive Board, the entire RVCDDS, including the specific processes for labor standards in own operations, is evaluated in terms of effectiveness, adequacy and potential for improvement. The RVCDDS is additionally inte- grated into Continental’s overarching internal control system, the risk management system and compliance management system."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 174 In line with the RVC commitments, the RVCDDS also defines the framework for taking remedial action in own operations. Any identi- fied violations must be addressed promptly and remedial actions must be implemented without unnecessary delay. These actions are designed not only to end the violation but also to ensure that similar issues are prevented in the future. Specific processes to prevent discrimination and to act accord- ingly if incidents are identified are part of the RVCDDS and the general processes of the integrity system described in the Busi- ness conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) section. The prevention of discrimination is implemented through general HR processes in the areas of improving frame conditions and specific initiatives for women, which comprise dedicated awareness-raising events, education offers as well as transparent HR processes in re- lation to recruitment and talent management. With regard to gen- der diversity, Continental has defined a target and key actions to achieve the target, as described in the subsections on Targets re- lated to own workforce and Key actions for target achievement in this section. The management approach is regulated by a dedicated responsi- ble value chain rule. It serves as the basis for further rules defining specifics for labor standards. They are complemented by special processes that are focused on diversity and belonging. Additionally, the respect for human rights and fair working conditions are em- bedded in Continental's Code of Conduct, which forms the basis for collaboration among all our employees. Continental’s management approach to respect for human rights and labor standards is in line with both international frameworks as well as local regulations. These include the internationally recog- nized conventions on human rights, such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Continental’s management approach to respect for human rights and labor standards is also in line with the key points of the Interna- tional Bill of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. These com- mitments serve as a global minimum standard for all Continental locations and form the basis for compliance with local laws and regulations. Additionally, Continental is a signatory of initiatives like the German Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charter). The company also endorses the Women’s Empowerment Principles established by the UN Global Compact and UN Women, demonstrating its dedi- cation to promoting diversity and inclusion across its operations. Monitoring of the adherence to these standards is anchored in the RVCDDS review process, including a revision of its rules and pro- cesses, if required. To incorporate stakeholder interests into the management system, Continental has established various formats. These include specific workshops and conferences, which are defined as measures by the labor standards rules. Another format is the regular Employee Sur- vey OUR BASICS Live in which Continental’s employees are asked about different topics related to Continental’s values. The integra- tion of these interests into the system is carried out as part of the annual review process. To ensure a comprehensive understanding and engagement related to labor standards within the organization, Continental communi- cates the management approach through diverse channels. This in- cludes our website and internal communication platforms which host trainings as well as the frameworks. In addition, posters and on- site training courses make relevant information available to employ- ees who do not have access to the IT infrastructure. Furthermore, through integration into the onboarding process, new employees are also familiarized with these standards right from the start. Furthermore, stakeholders involved in implementing the manage- ment approach have clearly defined roles within the RVCDDS and are trained on the associated responsibilities to enable effective col- laboration and execution of the management approach. Adequate wages With its management approach to adequate wages, Continental aims to provide fair pay for all employees, as anchored in the RVC commitments. In those, Continental has formulated the commit- ment that compensation paid to employees shall comply with all applicable wage laws and regulations, including those relating to minimum wages, living wages, overtime hours, and legally man- dated benefits. In compliance with local laws and regulations, em- ployees shall be compensated for overtime in a reasonable way. Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be per- mitted. For each pay period, employees shall be provided with a timely and understandable wage statement that includes sufficient information to verify accurate compensation for work performed. The management approach covers Continental’s own employees, while the RVC commitment also includes non-employees. Overall accountability for the management approach lies with the Executive Board. The specific rules are defined and implemented by the respective HR departments along the company structure. Responsibility for the implementation of adequate wages lies with the management of the respective legal entities. The processes of the RVCDDS, as described in the management approach for labor standards, also apply explicitly to the topic of adequate wages as one of our RVC commitments. The system is"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 175 comprised of many processes that include strategy development and implementation, the management of regulations, impact and risk management, incident management (including whistleblowing) and training, as well as the “three lines” model for system control. Continental’s general remuneration processes include the involve- ment of employee representatives and the consideration of bench- marks. These measures create a basis for preventing inadequate wages. In addition, further specific preventive and remedial measures for the legal entities are defined in respective rules. This includes, for example, regularly checking whether payments com- ply with national and local legislation, clearly communicating remu- neration principles to employees, ensuring timely and regular pay- ments and reviewing and updating appropriate benchmarks. Monitoring is carried out through the annual review process of the RVCDDS, in which the Executive Board is informed of the current status and decides on the effectiveness, adequacy and potential for improvement. The effectiveness of the management approach can also be measured by the metric for adequate wages. The RVCDDS is formalized by a dedicated rule. Other rules define the specific aspects for fair payment and adequate wages. With its management approach, Continental follows the internationally recognized standards and frameworks on human rights and labor standards, as described in more detail in the management approach to labor standards, as well as the applicable local laws on wages. The most important stakeholder perspective to be considered in the management approach to adequate wages is the perspective of employees. To obtain this, the regular Employee Survey OUR BA- SICS Live includes dedicated questions on the topic of remunera- tion and recognition, with a special focus on fair payment. Remu- neration models are discussed with the involvement of the respec- tive works councils or employee representatives to ensure the con- sideration of employees’ interests. Specific cases of inadequate wages can also be reported through the integrity system. The consideration of this information is integrated into the over- arching annual RVCDDS review process. To inform all stakeholders affected and those involved in the imple- mentation about the management approach, rules, trainings and further communication material are communicated via Conti- nental’s internal communication channels. Work-life balance Continental strives to create good working conditions to support the work-life balance and to promote the flexibility and well-being of all employees, regardless of their working time model. In this context, the specific requirements of the various markets in which Continental operates and the different types of activities, are taken into account. One focus is on the challenges of work-life balance, particularly for employees working in shift models. The management approach covers Continental’s own employees, whereby the focuses vary depending on the respective work models. Governance of the respective measures and frameworks lies with the non-operational HR functions, while the implementation is del- egated to the operational local HR departments and managers. Overall accountability for the framework lies with the Executive Board. Key processes within the management approach cover the areas of flexibility and further employee benefits. With regard to flexible working conditions, Continental has implemented a wide range of measures to enable its employees to achieve a healthy work-life balance. These include, e. g. hybrid work, flexible arrangements and working time models, sabbaticals, family-related leave including pa- rental leave, and partial retirement. Beyond this, Continental offers its employees further benefits, such as childcare opportunities and sport offers. Continental is actively expanding the opportunities of flexible work and is also involving its shopfloor employees in the process. For shift working models, Continental has implemented dedicated processes in accordance with local laws, to enable greater flexibility. The implementation of these measures varies by location and is tailored to local needs and regulations. The effectiveness of the management approach is monitored through the results of the OUR BASICS Live employee survey which is conducted on a regular basis. In the survey, employees provide feedback on how flexible working models at Continental support them in balancing work and private life. They also give their assessment of how they are able to cope with the stress level in their workplace. This feedback helps to assess and improve Continental’s approaches. The processes for improving the work-life balance of Continental’s employees are defined by dedicated internal frameworks and sub- sequent country-specific rules in adherence with local laws. Addi- tionally, a comprehensive set of guidelines, tools, methods, and up- skilling initiatives has been created to promote flexible work models across the organization."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 176 The management approach is not based on specific external stand- ards, but on research findings and best practices with regard to a healthy work-life balance. To consider employees’ interests, Continental is pursuing a collabo- rative approach by working closely with works councils and ac- tively involving managers, employees and relevant functions such as the law department. The OUR BASICS Live survey offers an addi- tional channel for gaining insights into satisfaction with the work- life balance. Continental communicates its management approach and flexibil- ity measures via the internal communication channels, making them accessible to employees at any time. This also includes local communication channels to reach employees at production sites. Beyond this, Continental actively uses its communication channels to share information and guidance with its employees on how to improve their work-life balance. Training and skill development Continental promotes continuous learning for employees to sup- port them in meeting evolving skills requirements and thereby miti- gate risks associated with skill gaps and business interruptions. The management approach covers all of Continental’s own em- ployees. Accountability for the governance of training and skill development as well as the related tools and learning landscape lies with the dif- ferent HR functions along Continental’s company structure. The framework for specific trainings is defined by the respective func- tions (e.g. safety and health or compliance). Responsibility for the implementation of the skill development measures lies with the management of the respective legal entities. Continental’s learning landscape provides the frame for meeting the company’s training and skill development requirements. This frame is filled with training content developed by the various func- tions and entities to meet their specific needs and regulatory re- quirements for employee training. Besides these function- or busi- ness-specific trainings, there are overarching training programs that are managed by the HR departments and implemented locally, e.g. offers for leadership development. To host these offers Continental has set up a dedicated learning platform. The platform categorizes the available trainings and programs by topic and makes them ac- cessible to employees. It also manages the allocation of training measures to employees. Monitoring of individual training programs can also be set up through this platform. In addition, the alignment on adequate training and development measures is an integral part of the employee dialogue between supervisors and employees in order to support individual skill development through a standard- ized process. In Germany, the Continental Institute for Technology and Transfor- mation (CITT) is an additional important pillar that proactively of- fers employees the opportunity to upskill themselves in future-ori- ented fields in order to prepare them for the evolving job market and new requirements. The CITT offers programs and qualification opportunities in the fields of robotics, virtual and augmented reality, 3D printing, agile methods and digital skills, and includes offers for semi-skilled workers, skilled workers and academics. In addition to German locations, the offers are also available at some other Euro- pean locations. The management approach regarding training and skill develop- ment is defined in several specific HR rules. For the training architecture for leaders, the ISO Norm 29993 served as a reference. The most important stakeholders with regard to training and skill development are Continental’s own employees who benefit from the training and skill development offers. Their interests are taken into account in the management approach through feedback op- tions on existing training materials. In addition, there are topic-spe- cific learning communities that are established via Continental’s in- ternal communication channels. Individual interests and needs are taken into account through regular employee dialogue between employees and supervisors. Employees are informed about this management approach via dedicated platforms within the internal communication channels. This includes the comprehensive learning platform as well as spe- cific topic-related learning communities, which are aimed at em- ployees in specific areas and inform them about existing training opportunities. Secure employment and social dialogue Secure employment and social dialogue are of the utmost interest for the company and for the employees. Therefore, with its corre- sponding management approach, Continental strives to shape the transition of our industries in close dialogue with our employees, while balancing economic and social needs. The management approach covers all of Continental’s own em- ployees. In principle, employment matters and social dialogue are regulated by labor law. Therefore, the formal accountability for the manage- ment approach is partially determined by local legislation. This in- cludes the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board, the management of Continental’s legal entities as well as the co-determination bodies, e.g. works councils. Operational imple- mentation is primarily managed by Continental’s HR departments along the company structure."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 183 Metrics Related to Own Workforce Characteristics of the company’s employees Own employees (headcount) In the economic report within the management report, the number of employees is disclosed in the Earnings position section in the Employees subsection. It should be noted that the two metrics differ in terms of their definition. Own employees by gender (as at December 31) Headcount Male 134,313 Female 49,029 Other 16 Total number of own employees 183,358 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - The gender distribution is based on the information provided by the employees that is documented in Continental’s systems. This information thus represents Conti- nental’s knowledge, considering local legislation and co-determination. The gender “Other” includes employees who identify as non-binary gender or have not provided any information. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Average number of own employees Headcount Average number of own employees 188,802 - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - The average is the total headcount at the end of each month divided by twelve. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Countries in which Continental employs >10 % of the total number of own employees Female Male Other Total Germany 8,180 30,730 0 38,910 Mexico 8,193 11,711 0 19,904 Romania 6,413 12,074 0 18,487 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Own employees by type of contract Female Male Other Total Employees 49,029 134,313 16 183,358 Employees with permanent employment 44,780 123,965 16 168,761 Employees with temporary employment 4,249 10,348 0 14,597 Employees without guaranteed working hours 0 0 0 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - The gender distribution is based on the information provided by the employees that is documented in Continental’s systems. This information thus represents Conti- nental’s knowledge, considering local legislation and co-determination. The gender “Other” includes employees who identify as non-binary gender or have not provided any information. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 183 Metrics Related to Own Workforce Characteristics of the company’s employees Own employees (headcount) In the economic report within the management report, the number of employees is disclosed in the Earnings position section in the Employees subsection. It should be noted that the two metrics differ in terms of their definition. Own employees by gender (as at December 31) Headcount Male 134,313 Female 49,029 Other 16 Total number of own employees 183,358 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - The gender distribution is based on the information provided by the employees that is documented in Continental’s systems. This information thus represents Conti- nental’s knowledge, considering local legislation and co-determination. The gender “Other” includes employees who identify as non-binary gender or have not provided any information. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Average number of own employees Headcount Average number of own employees 188,802 - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - The average is the total headcount at the end of each month divided by twelve. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Countries in which Continental employs >10 % of the total number of own employees Female Male Other Total Germany 8,180 30,730 0 38,910 Mexico 8,193 11,711 0 19,904 Romania 6,413 12,074 0 18,487 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Own employees by type of contract Female Male Other Total Employees 49,029 134,313 16 183,358 Employees with permanent employment 44,780 123,965 16 168,761 Employees with temporary employment 4,249 10,348 0 14,597 Employees without guaranteed working hours 0 0 0 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - The gender distribution is based on the information provided by the employees that is documented in Continental’s systems. This information thus represents Conti- nental’s knowledge, considering local legislation and co-determination. The gender “Other” includes employees who identify as non-binary gender or have not provided any information. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 184 Employee turnover Employee turnover 2024 Number of employees who left the company 24,978 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - Termination of the employment relationship is defined as voluntary resignation by the employee, termination of the contract by Continental, retirement, fatal accident at work, termination agreement between Continental and the employee, or the end of a temporary contract. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. For retirement and fatal accidents at work, the metric contains a small amount of extrapolated data for parts of Continental Group that did not report data directly. Employee turnover 2024 Employee turnover, in % 13 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - Employee turnover is defined as the number of employees who left the company in relation to the average number of employees. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index 2024 OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index, in % 79 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index is defined as the agreement of own employees to the questions relating to the topic of sustainable engagement in the OUR BASICS Live employee survey. - The survey is based on a representative random sample across all Continental locations worldwide. - The metric is entity-specific. Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue Coverage rate Workplace representation (for EEA countries with a significant number of employees) 0-19 % 20-39 % 40-59 % 60-79 % 80-100 % Germany and Romania Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - Countries in the European Economic Area (EEA) with a significant number of employees are countries in which Continental employs >10 % of the total number of its own employees. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Continental has signed an agreement with the European Works Council (EWC) supporting employee representation and social dia- logue at the European level."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 184 Employee turnover Employee turnover 2024 Number of employees who left the company 24,978 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - Termination of the employment relationship is defined as voluntary resignation by the employee, termination of the contract by Continental, retirement, fatal accident at work, termination agreement between Continental and the employee, or the end of a temporary contract. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. For retirement and fatal accidents at work, the metric contains a small amount of extrapolated data for parts of Continental Group that did not report data directly. Employee turnover 2024 Employee turnover, in % 13 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract in the reporting year. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - Employee turnover is defined as the number of employees who left the company in relation to the average number of employees. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index 2024 OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index, in % 79 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index is defined as the agreement of own employees to the questions relating to the topic of sustainable engagement in the OUR BASICS Live employee survey. - The survey is based on a representative random sample across all Continental locations worldwide. - The metric is entity-specific. Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue Coverage rate Workplace representation (for EEA countries with a significant number of employees) 0-19 % 20-39 % 40-59 % 60-79 % 80-100 % Germany and Romania Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - Countries in the European Economic Area (EEA) with a significant number of employees are countries in which Continental employs >10 % of the total number of its own employees. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Continental has signed an agreement with the European Works Council (EWC) supporting employee representation and social dia- logue at the European level."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 185 Diversity Gender diversity – senior executives and executives (as at December 31) 2024 Number of employees (headcount) Female 602 Male 2,330 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are own employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non- employees are not included. - The gender distribution is based on the information provided by the employees that is documented in Continental’s systems. This information thus represents Conti- nental’s, considering local legislation and co-determination. This metric considers the female gender and the male gender. - Senior executives and executives are defined by Continental’s grading system. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Gender diversity – share of female and male senior executives and executives (as at December 31), in % 2024 Female 20.5 Male 79.5 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. - The gender distribution is based on the information provided by the employees that is documented in Continental’s systems. This metric considers the female gender and the male gender. - Senior executives and executives are defined by Continental’s grading system. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. This metric is calculated by dividing the number of female or male senior executives and executives by the total number of senior executives and executives at the end of the reporting year. Gender diversity (excluding USA) 2024 Gender diversity – share of female senior executives and executives, excluding the USA (as at December 31), in % 20.6 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. - The gender distribution is based on the information provided by the employees that is documented in Continental’s systems. This metric considers the female gender and the male gender. - Senior executives and executives are defined by Continental’s grading system. - Relevant legal entities are included in the metrics. Legal entities in the USA are excluded. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. This metric is calculated by dividing the number of female senior executives and executives by the total number of senior executives and executives at the end of the reporting year. - This metric is calculated in addition to the overarching metric excluding the USA, to be usable in remuneration systems. - The metric is entity-specific. Own employees by age group (as at December 31) 2024 under 30 years old 33,983 30-50 years old 112,334 over 50 years old 37,042 Total number of own employees 183,358 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Own employees by age group (as at December 31), in % 2024 under 30 years old 19 30-50 years old 61 over 50 years old 20 Total number of employees 100 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Included are employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as at December 31, 2024. Interns, apprentices, and non-employees are not included. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 176 The management approach is not based on specific external stand- ards, but on research findings and best practices with regard to a healthy work-life balance. To consider employees’ interests, Continental is pursuing a collabo- rative approach by working closely with works councils and ac- tively involving managers, employees and relevant functions such as the law department. The OUR BASICS Live survey offers an addi- tional channel for gaining insights into satisfaction with the work- life balance. Continental communicates its management approach and flexibil- ity measures via the internal communication channels, making them accessible to employees at any time. This also includes local communication channels to reach employees at production sites. Beyond this, Continental actively uses its communication channels to share information and guidance with its employees on how to improve their work-life balance. Training and skill development Continental promotes continuous learning for employees to sup- port them in meeting evolving skills requirements and thereby miti- gate risks associated with skill gaps and business interruptions. The management approach covers all of Continental’s own em- ployees. Accountability for the governance of training and skill development as well as the related tools and learning landscape lies with the dif- ferent HR functions along Continental’s company structure. The framework for specific trainings is defined by the respective func- tions (e.g. safety and health or compliance). Responsibility for the implementation of the skill development measures lies with the management of the respective legal entities. Continental’s learning landscape provides the frame for meeting the company’s training and skill development requirements. This frame is filled with training content developed by the various func- tions and entities to meet their specific needs and regulatory re- quirements for employee training. Besides these function- or busi- ness-specific trainings, there are overarching training programs that are managed by the HR departments and implemented locally, e.g. offers for leadership development. To host these offers Continental has set up a dedicated learning platform. The platform categorizes the available trainings and programs by topic and makes them ac- cessible to employees. It also manages the allocation of training measures to employees. Monitoring of individual training programs can also be set up through this platform. In addition, the alignment on adequate training and development measures is an integral part of the employee dialogue between supervisors and employees in order to support individual skill development through a standard- ized process. In Germany, the Continental Institute for Technology and Transfor- mation (CITT) is an additional important pillar that proactively of- fers employees the opportunity to upskill themselves in future-ori- ented fields in order to prepare them for the evolving job market and new requirements. The CITT offers programs and qualification opportunities in the fields of robotics, virtual and augmented reality, 3D printing, agile methods and digital skills, and includes offers for semi-skilled workers, skilled workers and academics. In addition to German locations, the offers are also available at some other Euro- pean locations. The management approach regarding training and skill develop- ment is defined in several specific HR rules. For the training architecture for leaders, the ISO Norm 29993 served as a reference. The most important stakeholders with regard to training and skill development are Continental’s own employees who benefit from the training and skill development offers. Their interests are taken into account in the management approach through feedback op- tions on existing training materials. In addition, there are topic-spe- cific learning communities that are established via Continental’s in- ternal communication channels. Individual interests and needs are taken into account through regular employee dialogue between employees and supervisors. Employees are informed about this management approach via dedicated platforms within the internal communication channels. This includes the comprehensive learning platform as well as spe- cific topic-related learning communities, which are aimed at em- ployees in specific areas and inform them about existing training opportunities. Secure employment and social dialogue Secure employment and social dialogue are of the utmost interest for the company and for the employees. Therefore, with its corre- sponding management approach, Continental strives to shape the transition of our industries in close dialogue with our employees, while balancing economic and social needs. The management approach covers all of Continental’s own em- ployees. In principle, employment matters and social dialogue are regulated by labor law. Therefore, the formal accountability for the manage- ment approach is partially determined by local legislation. This in- cludes the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board, the management of Continental’s legal entities as well as the co-determination bodies, e.g. works councils. Operational imple- mentation is primarily managed by Continental’s HR departments along the company structure."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 177 Social dialogue and employee engagement are managed through various processes. Formalized processes especially include the rep- resentation of employees by works councils or similar structures as well as the regular employee survey OUR BASICS Live. In addition, Continental has established a variety of formats for social dialogue and employee engagement, including townhall meetings, networks, open calls and online platforms. This foundation for social dialogue is also the basis for managing employment matters in the transition of our industries. With regard to secure employment, Continental has established a set of processes, projects and measures. They mitigate the nega- tive impacts of the transformation on employees and simultane- ously create positive effects in terms of the creation of jobs and up- skilling. › In contract design, the focus is on providing employees with long- term offers. Flexible working time, mobile work options, and other benefits regarding employee working conditions, as described in the management approaches to work-life balance and adequate wages, are intended to proactively reduce employee turnover. › With regard to the impacts of the transformation, Continental has created a range of opportunities to prepare employees for the job market of the future. These are set out in the management ap- proach to training and skill development. › Job changes are also supported through a global internal job market. › Especially in Germany, which is significantly affected by transfor- mation processes - for example, due to increasing digitalization and technological change – Continental has established pro- cesses to support employees in external job transitions to other employers that offer better employment opportunities at the re- spective location (“von Arbeit in Arbeit”). These processes also in- clude discussions with potential external employers. The effectiveness of the management approach is monitored via dedicated feedback channels, HR processes and the reported metrics “Percentage of employees covered by employee representation”, “Employee turnover” and the OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engage- ment index. The processes are regulated through Continental’s internal HR rules and by-laws as well as agreements with works councils. Key aspects regarding secure employment and social dialogue are regulated in particular by local laws, regulations and regulatory pro- visions. By definition, social dialogue is an interest-based exchange with employees and their representatives. In order to gain further in- sights and consider the interests of its own workforce in the man- agement approach, Continental uses its internal communication channels and has integrated feedback processes into various en- gagement formats and training courses. An additional formalized process is the OUR BASICS Live employee survey, which gathers the employee’s opinions and views on various topics related to Continental’s values. These are recorded, consolidated and ana- lyzed in an established process. Furthermore, co-determination practices such as employee representation on the Supervisory Board and the involvement of the Group Works Council in relevant decision-making processes directly incorporate the interests of em- ployees and enable the alignment of management strategies with their needs. Many communication and dialogue formats (e.g. townhall meet- ings) already inherently constitute social dialogue. In addition, Continental’s management approach to secure employment and social dialogue is also communicated to employees via established internal communication channels, usually in the broader context of the associated transformations. This includes newsletters and dedi- cated channels managed by local works councils to inform the workforce. For information on training offers, a dedicated platform is available, as described in detail in the management approach to training and skill development. This is complemented by local com- munication on site to reach employees who do not have access to the IT infrastructure. Employee privacy To protect employee data, Continental has established a group- wide management approach that addresses compliance with data protection regulations, minimizing the risk of data breaches, pro- tecting personal data and promoting awareness of data protection within the company. Continental thereby aims to ensure that per- sonal data is processed worldwide in accordance with the following general data protection principles: lawfulness, fairness, transpar- ency, purpose limitation, data minimization, accuracy and time-lim- ited storage. The management approach covers Continental’s own employees as well as the personal data relating to potential or former employ- ees, customers, suppliers, other business partners, interested par- ties and other affected parties. Accountability for the implementation of employee data protection lies with the management of Continentals respective legal entities as well as with functions at all levels that process personal data. The appointed Chief Data Compliance Officer and team are responsible for defining and implementing the data protection management"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 178 framework. The Chief Data Compliance Officer and regional data compliance coordinators also support the legal entities with the im- plementation. Overarching oversight is exercised by the Executive Board. The processes for managing and monitoring the management ap- proach include the following steps as part of a comprehensive data protection program: secure collection, processing, storage and dis- posal of data. To ensure protection of the data across these steps, Continental has implemented technical and organizational measures such as encryption of sensitive data or access controls to protect data from unauthorized access. Further Continental ad- heres to the principle of data minimization, meaning only collecting and processing the data necessary for specific purposes. A regular “Privacy Impact Assessment” is used to identify critical areas for ac- tion and initiate appropriate measures based on the results. An- other key process within the data protection program is the regular training of employees on data protection. The management approach is based on the national data protec- tion regulations in the countries Continental operates in as well as the Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) which are approved by the re- sponsible data protection authority and ensure a level of data pro- tection around the world which corresponds with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). To monitor the effectiveness of the program, questions on data protection are part of both the regular audit questionnaire and the risk assessment questionnaire. The results of the evaluation are re- ported by the Chief Data Compliance Officer to the respective man- agement as well as to the Executive Board. Data protection is an integral part of the Code of Conduct for em- ployees and is thus firmly anchored in the foundation of coopera- tion at Continental. In addition, a dedicated rule formalizes the pro- cesses in relation to employee privacy. This rule also includes clearly defined BCRs. With this approach, Continental adheres to relevant data protection regulations such as the EU GDPR. By definition, the most important stakeholders with regard to em- ployee privacy are Continental’s employees. Their interests are de- fined in the relevant data protection laws. Concerns or complaints can be submitted via the channels provided for this purpose. The Chief Data Compliance Officer and regional data compliance coor- dinators ensure that these concerns are addressed and integrated into the management approach. Continental informs employees about data protection measures and processes through internal communication channels. The com- pliance department manages dedicated formats, including topic- specific information pages, an internal newsletter and regular training sessions to keep employees informed and engaged. Additionally, stakeholders involved in the implementation of the management approach receive specialized training and information through structured meeting formats and relevant rule documents. Occupational safety and health Continental has established a comprehensive management system for occupational safety and health in order to mitigate the impacts on employees in relation to health hazards such as the use of ma- chinery, handling of substances of concern, ergonomics and men- tal hazards. The system is aimed at implementing preventive measures and eliminating hazards to ensure the well-being of all employees. The management approach covers Continental’s own employees directly and non-employee indirectly. Accountability for the safety and health management approach lies with the management of the respective legal entities, as legally re- quired in most countries. Furthermore, individual accountability plays a crucial role, as every supervisor and employee has a per- sonal responsibility to uphold safety and health practices in their re- spective function. The framework for safety and health is defined by the safety and health organization, which also provides support with its implementation. Responsibility for the implementation of the safety and health matters is delegated to the location manag- ers who are supported by dedicated ESH managers. Responsibility for certain specific matters of occupational safety and health is reg- ulated individually. Oversight of the overall management approach is exercised by the Executive Board. Occupational safety and health matters are managed through Continental’s ISO 45001-compliant occupational safety and health management system, which comprises processes and programs for complying with safety and health requirements for all locations. Key elements of this system include specific processes that define the organization, implementation, reporting and training for rele- vant safety and health topics such as occupational safety, health management, occupational medicine, ergonomics in the workplace and handling of substances of concern (see also the management approach Substances of concern and very high concern in the Pol- lution (ESRS E2) section). The processes include establishing a clear structure for allocating resources and defining roles and responsibilities within the organi- zation, risk and impact management for the identification and miti- gation of potential hazards, consistent and transparent communica- tion as well as training and skill development for employees in the individual topics. Preventive measures are implemented on a site- specific basis in line with the overall processes."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 179 Reporting processes have been introduced to monitor the system and internal audits are carried out on a regular basis. To support this monitoring, Continental has implemented targeted programs such as the group sector internal safety & health audit program, to control the compliance with internal standards and identify oppor- tunities for improvement. Furthermore, external ISO 45001 certifi- cations validate the effectiveness of the management system at many locations. In addition, Continental monitors the effective of the management system with different metrics reported in the re- spective subsection of this section. The safety and health management system also includes the dedi- cated management of incidents in the workplace. The specific processes, responsibilities and monitoring measures are defined in the rules governing occupational safety and health. The location-specific safety and health management systems fur- ther specify the requirements in relation to local needs. In the development and implementation of the management ap- proach, Continental considers a variety of external standards and commitments to create alignment with international best practices and legal requirements. Besides ISO 45001 as the international standard for occupational safety and health management systems, these include frameworks and standards such as the Luxembourg Declaration on Workplace Health Promotion in the European Union as well as the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and other relevant human rights frameworks as outlined in the management ap- proach to labor standards. Continental considers its employees’ interests in alignment with both internal and external requirements. For this purpose, employ- ees and their representatives are involved in the relevant processes to bring in their perspective, e.g. through ESH committees or con- sultations with the works councils. To maintain transparency across all levels of the organization, the management approach is communicated via Continental’s internal communication platforms. These channels are also actively used to share information with employees on topics such as ergonomics or mental health and to provide them with personal tools. Another im- portant pillar is training in occupational safety and health, which also includes mandatory training courses for employees and super- visors. These are either conducted on site or can be accessed via Continental’s learning platform as presented in the management approach to training and skill development. For additional local communication, the EHS managers identify and assess the local re- quirements and advise the location managers. Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts Continental uses various channels to engage with employees in its own workforce. This engagement is part of the continuous devel- opment of the described management approaches. The general process for incorporating the perspectives of its own workforce into the strategy is described in the subsection on Consideration of stakeholder interests and views in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section of this sustainability report. Continental implemented comprehensive internal communication that includes networks for exchange, as well as newsletters, webcasts and townhall formats to keep employees informed. An important format for engaging with the workforce and gaining in- sights into their interests is the OUR BASICS Live employee survey where employees provide feedback on different topics related to Continental’s values. These overarching channels are compli- mented by local communication. Additionally, Continental is in constant dialogue with employee rep- resentatives. In Germany, employee representatives are part of Continental AG’s Supervisory Board. Employees are also repre- sented by local works councils or similar bodies in order to take their interests into account in strategic decisions and processes, wherever possible. Engagement with employees therefore takes place both directly and indirectly via the employee representatives. The network channels described are continuously open for en- gagement, while formats such as webcasts are held event-based. The OUR BASICS Live employee survey is conducted annually. For engaging with marginalized groups in its own workforce, Conti- nental has established dedicated networks. These include for in- stance specific networks for woman, as described in the key ac- tions on the gender diversity target. The channels are managed by Continentals HR and communica- tion departments across the organization. the Executive Board member for Group Human Relations (director of labor relations) and Group Sustainability has overarching responsibility and is in- formed by the departments on employees matters. An important tool for measuring the effectiveness of the engage- ment is the OUR BASICS Live employee survey. It records feedback on communication and employee involvement and forms the basis for the metric OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index. The communication channels also include direct feedback options. Furthermore, the metric on the percentage of employees covered by employee representation serves as an indicator for social dia- logue coverage."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 178 framework. The Chief Data Compliance Officer and regional data compliance coordinators also support the legal entities with the im- plementation. Overarching oversight is exercised by the Executive Board. The processes for managing and monitoring the management ap- proach include the following steps as part of a comprehensive data protection program: secure collection, processing, storage and dis- posal of data. To ensure protection of the data across these steps, Continental has implemented technical and organizational measures such as encryption of sensitive data or access controls to protect data from unauthorized access. Further Continental ad- heres to the principle of data minimization, meaning only collecting and processing the data necessary for specific purposes. A regular “Privacy Impact Assessment” is used to identify critical areas for ac- tion and initiate appropriate measures based on the results. An- other key process within the data protection program is the regular training of employees on data protection. The management approach is based on the national data protec- tion regulations in the countries Continental operates in as well as the Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) which are approved by the re- sponsible data protection authority and ensure a level of data pro- tection around the world which corresponds with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). To monitor the effectiveness of the program, questions on data protection are part of both the regular audit questionnaire and the risk assessment questionnaire. The results of the evaluation are re- ported by the Chief Data Compliance Officer to the respective man- agement as well as to the Executive Board. Data protection is an integral part of the Code of Conduct for em- ployees and is thus firmly anchored in the foundation of coopera- tion at Continental. In addition, a dedicated rule formalizes the pro- cesses in relation to employee privacy. This rule also includes clearly defined BCRs. With this approach, Continental adheres to relevant data protection regulations such as the EU GDPR. By definition, the most important stakeholders with regard to em- ployee privacy are Continental’s employees. Their interests are de- fined in the relevant data protection laws. Concerns or complaints can be submitted via the channels provided for this purpose. The Chief Data Compliance Officer and regional data compliance coor- dinators ensure that these concerns are addressed and integrated into the management approach. Continental informs employees about data protection measures and processes through internal communication channels. The com- pliance department manages dedicated formats, including topic- specific information pages, an internal newsletter and regular training sessions to keep employees informed and engaged. Additionally, stakeholders involved in the implementation of the management approach receive specialized training and information through structured meeting formats and relevant rule documents. Occupational safety and health Continental has established a comprehensive management system for occupational safety and health in order to mitigate the impacts on employees in relation to health hazards such as the use of ma- chinery, handling of substances of concern, ergonomics and men- tal hazards. The system is aimed at implementing preventive measures and eliminating hazards to ensure the well-being of all employees. The management approach covers Continental’s own employees directly and non-employee indirectly. Accountability for the safety and health management approach lies with the management of the respective legal entities, as legally re- quired in most countries. Furthermore, individual accountability plays a crucial role, as every supervisor and employee has a per- sonal responsibility to uphold safety and health practices in their re- spective function. The framework for safety and health is defined by the safety and health organization, which also provides support with its implementation. Responsibility for the implementation of the safety and health matters is delegated to the location manag- ers who are supported by dedicated ESH managers. Responsibility for certain specific matters of occupational safety and health is reg- ulated individually. Oversight of the overall management approach is exercised by the Executive Board. Occupational safety and health matters are managed through Continental’s ISO 45001-compliant occupational safety and health management system, which comprises processes and programs for complying with safety and health requirements for all locations. Key elements of this system include specific processes that define the organization, implementation, reporting and training for rele- vant safety and health topics such as occupational safety, health management, occupational medicine, ergonomics in the workplace and handling of substances of concern (see also the management approach Substances of concern and very high concern in the Pol- lution (ESRS E2) section). The processes include establishing a clear structure for allocating resources and defining roles and responsibilities within the organi- zation, risk and impact management for the identification and miti- gation of potential hazards, consistent and transparent communica- tion as well as training and skill development for employees in the individual topics. Preventive measures are implemented on a site- specific basis in line with the overall processes."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 180 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns Grievance channels for own workforce Continental has established dedicated mechanisms to enable its own workforce to raise concerns. These are part of a comprehensive integrity system that comprises three channels: an integrity portal, an integrity hotline and an integ- rity email, as described in more detail in the Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) section of this sustainability report. Employees as well as third parties outside the Continental Group can report violations of legal regulations, fundamental values and ethical standards via these channels. The platform and hotline are managed by a third-party service provider. The integrity email is managed directly by a Continental Case Management team. The channels are explicitly open for all employee matters. The integrity channels can be accessed via our website, internal communication channels or an international phone hotline. They are available worldwide in many different languages and accessible 24/7, creating broad availability by overcoming barriers such as time zones or languages. To raise awareness of the integrity system, Continental has imple- mented various channels and formats, including intranet articles and formats, compliance newsletters and podcasts, mandatory training and local on-site communication. Continental does not ex- plicitly assess the awareness and trust of the own workforce in these channels. In order to protect users of the integrity system, information on all kinds of potential violation can be reported anonymously. Report- ing and investigation information is treated confidentially in accord- ance with applicable laws throughout the entire case management. The whistleblowing process is in line with the German Whistle- blower Protection Act and relevant international legislation. The integrity system is governed by a dedicated rule that defines roles and responsibilities along the process steps of reporting, re- port administration and substantiation, investigation, and sanction- ing – in an end-to-end process. The case management is also sub- ject to internal audits. In addition, Continental’s publicly available rules of procedure provide transparency on the handling of cases. Furthermore, Continental’s employees take part in mandatory train- ings on the topic of whistleblowing. Remediation processes When complaints are received via the whistleblowing channels or through audit findings, Continental follows a structured process to investigate and address the respective cases. Remedial actions must be implemented in due time and must be aligned with Conti- nental’s frameworks. Based on these frameworks, the respective le- gal entities must implement measures to resolve the violation effec- tively and prevent similar incidents in the future. The remediation measures related to submitted cases are tracked via a compliance case management software. Further information, including the tracking of effectiveness, can be found in Business conduct and corporate governance (ESRS G1) section, the management ap- proach Business conduct, corporate governance and corporate cul- ture, and in the subsection on Prevention and detection of corrup- tion and bribery which describes the integrity system in detail."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 181 Targets Related to Own Workforce With regard to its own workforce, Continental has set itself a time- bound target related to the matters diversity and gender equality. Continental counts on the diversity of its employees. By this we mean internationality, a balanced gender ratio, and a range of expe- riences and age categories. Diversity is a key driver for different perspectives within the organization and thereby promotes the re- silience in decision making. In addition, promoting diversity espe- cially on leadership level is also considered to support the preven- tion of discrimination and harassment in the organization. We have set ourselves the public sustainability target of increasing the share of female executives and senior executives to up to 30 % by 2030. An interim target on the trajectory for the target for 2030 is the share of 25 % female executives and senior executives by 2025. The scope of the target comprises all management positions (sen- ior executives and executives) worldwide. This target addresses the overall leadership culture of the company and especially the impacts and risks related to equal treatment and combating discrimination, as described in the management ap- proach Labor standards in this section. Indirectly it also addresses topics such as adequate wages and skill development. The progress of the target achievement is measured with the met- ric on gender diversity – share of female and male senior execu- tives and executives. This metric is monitored continuously and reported at least once a year. The metric slightly increased in the reporting year to about 20.5 % compared to about 19.9 % in the previous year. It is thereby still within the expected range of the target achievement curve. The target was defined based on different internal calculations, tak- ing into account the related challenges as well as potential. The metric is calculated based on a defined methodology and has al- ready been reported for several years. Continental has set up a dedicated HR community in where HR managers can exchange best practices and insights between differ- ent teams across the organizational levels. It serves to tailor initia- tives to specific needs and promote the continuous improvement of Continental’s overall diversity and inclusion efforts. Employee representatives were actively involved in the target-set- ting process. The involvement of the affected interest groups, the identification of lessons learned and potential for improvement, e.g. via networks, is presented in the key actions for target achievement. The target has not been changed during the reporting period. Key Actions for Target Achievement The key actions to implement the “Women in management posi- tions” target include a set of initiatives and programs. Given the na- ture of the target, promoting diversity is also an important manage- ment task in addition to the key actions. Continental has taken market analyses into account when defining appropriate actions. This includes, for example, a partnership with a professor of economics who assists with the analysis of HR data and survey results to identify key insights and areas for improve- ment. This collaboration provides valuable knowledge and a basis for identifying and refining actions. The defined levers that have been implemented to achieve the tar- get of women in management positions focus on improving the structural conditions to level the playing field for women. These in- clude increasing flexibility through offers like childcare, mobile work or part time options, as well as the use of objective and diagnostics- assisted recruitment and training procedures. To create a culture of inclusion and belonging, Continental promotes awareness and edu- cation on these topics through leadership philosophy and develop- ment as well as guidelines on diversity and anti-discrimination. Continental has also launched specific initiatives for women to pro- mote their professional development. These include, e.g. events, of- fers for talent management and development as well as networks. These measures are not only aimed at the achievement of the tar- get but are also support the prevention of discrimination and achieving equal treatment of employees in general. By mitigating the underlying negative impacts, it is assumed that the measures also mitigate to some extent potential risks to the company arising from possible incidents of discrimination in the area of gender diversity. No material positive impacts related to anti-discrimination and di- versity were identified. Also, no material opportunities have been identified. Key resources for the action plan include the expenditure for im- proving the structural conditions and specific initiatives for women."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 181 Targets Related to Own Workforce With regard to its own workforce, Continental has set itself a time- bound target related to the matters diversity and gender equality. Continental counts on the diversity of its employees. By this we mean internationality, a balanced gender ratio, and a range of expe- riences and age categories. Diversity is a key driver for different perspectives within the organization and thereby promotes the re- silience in decision making. In addition, promoting diversity espe- cially on leadership level is also considered to support the preven- tion of discrimination and harassment in the organization. We have set ourselves the public sustainability target of increasing the share of female executives and senior executives to up to 30 % by 2030. An interim target on the trajectory for the target for 2030 is the share of 25 % female executives and senior executives by 2025. The scope of the target comprises all management positions (sen- ior executives and executives) worldwide. This target addresses the overall leadership culture of the company and especially the impacts and risks related to equal treatment and combating discrimination, as described in the management ap- proach Labor standards in this section. Indirectly it also addresses topics such as adequate wages and skill development. The progress of the target achievement is measured with the met- ric on gender diversity – share of female and male senior execu- tives and executives. This metric is monitored continuously and reported at least once a year. The metric slightly increased in the reporting year to about 20.5 % compared to about 19.9 % in the previous year. It is thereby still within the expected range of the target achievement curve. The target was defined based on different internal calculations, tak- ing into account the related challenges as well as potential. The metric is calculated based on a defined methodology and has al- ready been reported for several years. Continental has set up a dedicated HR community in where HR managers can exchange best practices and insights between differ- ent teams across the organizational levels. It serves to tailor initia- tives to specific needs and promote the continuous improvement of Continental’s overall diversity and inclusion efforts. Employee representatives were actively involved in the target-set- ting process. The involvement of the affected interest groups, the identification of lessons learned and potential for improvement, e.g. via networks, is presented in the key actions for target achievement. The target has not been changed during the reporting period. Key Actions for Target Achievement The key actions to implement the “Women in management posi- tions” target include a set of initiatives and programs. Given the na- ture of the target, promoting diversity is also an important manage- ment task in addition to the key actions. Continental has taken market analyses into account when defining appropriate actions. This includes, for example, a partnership with a professor of economics who assists with the analysis of HR data and survey results to identify key insights and areas for improve- ment. This collaboration provides valuable knowledge and a basis for identifying and refining actions. The defined levers that have been implemented to achieve the tar- get of women in management positions focus on improving the structural conditions to level the playing field for women. These in- clude increasing flexibility through offers like childcare, mobile work or part time options, as well as the use of objective and diagnostics- assisted recruitment and training procedures. To create a culture of inclusion and belonging, Continental promotes awareness and edu- cation on these topics through leadership philosophy and develop- ment as well as guidelines on diversity and anti-discrimination. Continental has also launched specific initiatives for women to pro- mote their professional development. These include, e.g. events, of- fers for talent management and development as well as networks. These measures are not only aimed at the achievement of the tar- get but are also support the prevention of discrimination and achieving equal treatment of employees in general. By mitigating the underlying negative impacts, it is assumed that the measures also mitigate to some extent potential risks to the company arising from possible incidents of discrimination in the area of gender diversity. No material positive impacts related to anti-discrimination and di- versity were identified. Also, no material opportunities have been identified. Key resources for the action plan include the expenditure for im- proving the structural conditions and specific initiatives for women."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 182 The actions related to the target for gender diversity support the management approach to Labor standards by striving to reduce potential negative impacts on the own workforce, also in the event of conflicting economic and social interests. The specific initiatives for women focus on the entire female work- force, also beyond management positions. The actions relating to the structural conditions are much broader and ultimately address the entire workforce. The actions include short-, medium- and long-term measures. The key actions for target achievement are not directly related to a specific remedial process. Where relevant, remedial actions are based on the general processes, as described for the integrity sys- tem. The effectiveness of the actions related to the impacts and risks is measured indirectly through the target achievement progress and the pool of potential candidates. Capital expenditures and operating expenditures for key actions to achieve the target related to the own workforce OpEx for key actions 2024 OpEx for key actions to achieve the target related to own workforce, in € millions 13 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The data for operating expenditure (OpEx) related to the improvement of structural conditions and specific initiatives for women is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Planned OpEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned OpEx for key actions to achieve the target related to own workforce, in € millions 67 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - The data for operating expenditure (OpEx) related to the improvement of structural conditions and specific initiatives for women is collected at Group level based on the operating expenditure incurred in the reporting year in accordance with the table above. CapEx for key actions 2024 CapEx for key actions to achieve the target related to own workforce, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The data for capital expenditure (CapEx) related to the improvement of structural conditions and specific initiatives for women is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Planned CapEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned CapEx for key actions to achieve the target related to own workforce, in € millions 2 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - The data on capital expenditure (CapEx) related to the improvement of structural conditions and specific initiatives for women is collected at Group level based on the operating expenditure incurred in the reporting year in accordance with the table above."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 188 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts Cases, incidents and false reports of discrimination 2024 Total number of cases, incidents and false report of discrimination, including harassment 294 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Discrimination including harassment are violations of the RVC commitment “Equal treatment.” - Incidents are confirmed cases. - Entity-based reporting is used to count cases, incidents and false reports of discrimination (including harassment) that involve a person belonging to Conti- nental’s own workforce and that were reported in Continental systems during the reporting year. Complaints related to social or human rights matters 2024 Total number of complaints related to social or human rights matters other than discrimination 139 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Considered are incidents relating to social or human rights matters (excluding discrimination) that involve a person belonging to Continental’s own workforce and that were reported in Continental systems during the reporting year. - Duplicates are included in the result. - The data is collected through the various complaint mechanisms of the Continental Group. Fines, penalties and compensation in connection with human rights violations 2024 Total amount of fines, penalties and compensation in connection with human rights violations, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Fines, penalties, and compensation paid out during the reporting year are included. - The data is collected through the various complaint mechanisms of the Continental Group. Considered are incidents relating to social or human rights matters that were reported in Continental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person belonging to Continental’s own workforce. Related expenses within the meaning of the ESRS are reported in the consolidated financial statements under Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Severe human rights incidents related to Continental’s own workforce 2024 Total number of known incidents of severe human rights violations related to own workforce 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of case management in the RVCDDS. - The incidents considered are severe incidents relating to human rights that were reported in Continental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person belonging to Continental’s own workforce. - The data is collected through the various complaint mechanisms of the Continental Group. Fines, penalties and compensation for severe human rights violations 2024 Total amount of fines, penalties and compensation for severe human rights violations related to the own workforce, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of case management in the RVCDDS. Fines, penalties, and compensation paid out during the reporting year are included. - Considered are severe incidents related to human rights that were reported in Conti- nental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person belonging to Continental’s own workforce. - These data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. Related expenses within the meaning of the ESRS are reported in the consolidated financial statements under Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 189 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Workers in the Value Chain Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts and risks have been identified in relation to work- ers in the value chain. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the nega- tive impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Conti- nental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Individual incidents of negative impacts in relation to occupational safety and health, fair pay and working time by direct suppliers on their workers were recorded for 2024. Beyond the confirmed incidents, Continental’s direct suppliers operate in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on workers related to fair pay, forced labor (including debt bondage), freedom of association, working conditions (including working time) and obligations in the area of occupational safety and health occur unless adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 58) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Individual incidents of negative impacts on workers for indirect suppliers in connection with occupational safety and health and forced labor were recorded for 2024. In addition to the confirmed incidents, the deeper supply chain, which goes be- yond the direct suppliers, also operates in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on workers in relation to child labor, fair pay, equal treatment/anti-discrimination, forced la- bor (including debt bondage), freedom of association, working conditions (including work time), obligations in the area of occu- pational safety and health, social dialogue, adequate housing, ac- cess to clean water and sanitary facilities as well as data privacy can occur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 59) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in industries and certain markets where potential inci- dents related to forced labor, child labor, housing, occupational safety and health, data privacy or other human rights can occur. If, in the worst-case scenario, Continental’s due diligence pro- cesses fail and related severe violations occur, Continental could face sanctions with substantial penalties and fines or even busi- ness on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 60) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers also operate in industries and certain markets where increas- ing regulatory requirements must be complied with in relation to due diligence obligations regarding forced labor, child labor, ade- quate housing, occupational safety and health, data privacy or other human rights within the supply chain. Corresponding regu- latory requirements and the associated market changes can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 61) Workers in the Value Chain (ESRS S2)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 189 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Workers in the Value Chain Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts and risks have been identified in relation to work- ers in the value chain. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the nega- tive impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Conti- nental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Individual incidents of negative impacts in relation to occupational safety and health, fair pay and working time by direct suppliers on their workers were recorded for 2024. Beyond the confirmed incidents, Continental’s direct suppliers operate in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on workers related to fair pay, forced labor (including debt bondage), freedom of association, working conditions (including working time) and obligations in the area of occupational safety and health occur unless adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 58) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Individual incidents of negative impacts on workers for indirect suppliers in connection with occupational safety and health and forced labor were recorded for 2024. In addition to the confirmed incidents, the deeper supply chain, which goes be- yond the direct suppliers, also operates in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on workers in relation to child labor, fair pay, equal treatment/anti-discrimination, forced la- bor (including debt bondage), freedom of association, working conditions (including work time), obligations in the area of occu- pational safety and health, social dialogue, adequate housing, ac- cess to clean water and sanitary facilities as well as data privacy can occur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 59) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in industries and certain markets where potential inci- dents related to forced labor, child labor, housing, occupational safety and health, data privacy or other human rights can occur. If, in the worst-case scenario, Continental’s due diligence pro- cesses fail and related severe violations occur, Continental could face sanctions with substantial penalties and fines or even busi- ness on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 60) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers also operate in industries and certain markets where increas- ing regulatory requirements must be complied with in relation to due diligence obligations regarding forced labor, child labor, ade- quate housing, occupational safety and health, data privacy or other human rights within the supply chain. Corresponding regu- latory requirements and the associated market changes can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 61) Workers in the Value Chain (ESRS S2)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 189 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Workers in the Value Chain Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts and risks have been identified in relation to work- ers in the value chain. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the nega- tive impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Conti- nental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Individual incidents of negative impacts in relation to occupational safety and health, fair pay and working time by direct suppliers on their workers were recorded for 2024. Beyond the confirmed incidents, Continental’s direct suppliers operate in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on workers related to fair pay, forced labor (including debt bondage), freedom of association, working conditions (including working time) and obligations in the area of occupational safety and health occur unless adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 58) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Individual incidents of negative impacts on workers for indirect suppliers in connection with occupational safety and health and forced labor were recorded for 2024. In addition to the confirmed incidents, the deeper supply chain, which goes be- yond the direct suppliers, also operates in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on workers in relation to child labor, fair pay, equal treatment/anti-discrimination, forced la- bor (including debt bondage), freedom of association, working conditions (including work time), obligations in the area of occu- pational safety and health, social dialogue, adequate housing, ac- cess to clean water and sanitary facilities as well as data privacy can occur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 59) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in industries and certain markets where potential inci- dents related to forced labor, child labor, housing, occupational safety and health, data privacy or other human rights can occur. If, in the worst-case scenario, Continental’s due diligence pro- cesses fail and related severe violations occur, Continental could face sanctions with substantial penalties and fines or even busi- ness on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 60) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers also operate in industries and certain markets where increas- ing regulatory requirements must be complied with in relation to due diligence obligations regarding forced labor, child labor, ade- quate housing, occupational safety and health, data privacy or other human rights within the supply chain. Corresponding regu- latory requirements and the associated market changes can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 61) Workers in the Value Chain (ESRS S2)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 190 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Workers in the Value Chain In the IRO assessment, Continental identified both actual and po- tential negative impacts on workers in the value chain in the areas of working conditions, equal treatment and other human rights, as described at the beginning of this section. These negative impacts are associated with Continental’s strategy and business model and relate in particular to regions, certain markets, industries and busi- ness activities in the supplier base that are critically or significantly exposed to such impacts. The identified actual and potential im- pacts on workers in the value chain are important for adapting the strategy and business model. The development of measures and strategic decisions based on the identified impacts are described as part of the management approach. As indicated by the respective descriptions, all identified risks result directly from identified actual and potential impacts. They are therefore also based on the breadth and diversity of countries, mar- kets, industries and business activities in Continental’s value chain. Therefore, the risks are inherently linked to Continental’s strategy and business model. The assessment of material impacts takes into account all workers in the value chain but is explicitly focused on workers in Conti- nental’s supply chain. Connections to the company’s own opera- tions, product portfolio and business relationships are taken into ac- count where relevant. As Continental sources goods, materials and services from numer- ous industries along the value chain, this essentially has an actual or potential impact on all types of workers. Workers who work on Continental’s premises but are not counted as part of the com- pany’s own workforce, as well as workers who work for direct sup- pliers or indirect suppliers in the deeper value chain, are considered to be particularly affected. In both cases, this includes vulnerable groups such as migrant workers. The impacts on workers in the downstream value chain are rather considered as indirect. Workers in Continental’s joint ventures are especially impacted if the joint venture is also a supplier. Continental’s assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities did not focus on workers in the value chain with specific character- istics or in specific activities and contexts, and accordingly did not provide an understanding of a greater exposure to harm. These specifics include the fact that Continental’s global value chain includes many industries, countries and markets and thus also regions in which there is a significant potential for negative im- pacts with regard to child labor, forced labor or compulsory labor, in particular in Pakistan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or industries such as the quarrying of stone, sand and clay or grow- ing of perennial crops. The assessment of the material negative impacts regarding work- ers in the value chain was integrated in the general impact, risk and opportunity assessment following the defined methodology. The methodology takes into consideration two perspectives: All nega- tive impacts are to be considered widespread or systemic as they relate to countries, certain markets, industries and business activi- ties or other business relationships in Continental’s value chain. In addition, the methodology takes into account actual event-based negative impacts wherever the impact description contains a refer- ence to concrete actual incidents. Material risks arising from the impacts on workers in the value chain are not attributable to specific groups of people but are de- pendent on industries and geographical aspects."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 190 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Workers in the Value Chain In the IRO assessment, Continental identified both actual and po- tential negative impacts on workers in the value chain in the areas of working conditions, equal treatment and other human rights, as described at the beginning of this section. These negative impacts are associated with Continental’s strategy and business model and relate in particular to regions, certain markets, industries and busi- ness activities in the supplier base that are critically or significantly exposed to such impacts. The identified actual and potential im- pacts on workers in the value chain are important for adapting the strategy and business model. The development of measures and strategic decisions based on the identified impacts are described as part of the management approach. As indicated by the respective descriptions, all identified risks result directly from identified actual and potential impacts. They are therefore also based on the breadth and diversity of countries, mar- kets, industries and business activities in Continental’s value chain. Therefore, the risks are inherently linked to Continental’s strategy and business model. The assessment of material impacts takes into account all workers in the value chain but is explicitly focused on workers in Conti- nental’s supply chain. Connections to the company’s own opera- tions, product portfolio and business relationships are taken into ac- count where relevant. As Continental sources goods, materials and services from numer- ous industries along the value chain, this essentially has an actual or potential impact on all types of workers. Workers who work on Continental’s premises but are not counted as part of the com- pany’s own workforce, as well as workers who work for direct sup- pliers or indirect suppliers in the deeper value chain, are considered to be particularly affected. In both cases, this includes vulnerable groups such as migrant workers. The impacts on workers in the downstream value chain are rather considered as indirect. Workers in Continental’s joint ventures are especially impacted if the joint venture is also a supplier. Continental’s assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities did not focus on workers in the value chain with specific character- istics or in specific activities and contexts, and accordingly did not provide an understanding of a greater exposure to harm. These specifics include the fact that Continental’s global value chain includes many industries, countries and markets and thus also regions in which there is a significant potential for negative im- pacts with regard to child labor, forced labor or compulsory labor, in particular in Pakistan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or industries such as the quarrying of stone, sand and clay or grow- ing of perennial crops. The assessment of the material negative impacts regarding work- ers in the value chain was integrated in the general impact, risk and opportunity assessment following the defined methodology. The methodology takes into consideration two perspectives: All nega- tive impacts are to be considered widespread or systemic as they relate to countries, certain markets, industries and business activi- ties or other business relationships in Continental’s value chain. In addition, the methodology takes into account actual event-based negative impacts wherever the impact description contains a refer- ence to concrete actual incidents. Material risks arising from the impacts on workers in the value chain are not attributable to specific groups of people but are de- pendent on industries and geographical aspects."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 190 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Workers in the Value Chain In the IRO assessment, Continental identified both actual and po- tential negative impacts on workers in the value chain in the areas of working conditions, equal treatment and other human rights, as described at the beginning of this section. These negative impacts are associated with Continental’s strategy and business model and relate in particular to regions, certain markets, industries and busi- ness activities in the supplier base that are critically or significantly exposed to such impacts. The identified actual and potential im- pacts on workers in the value chain are important for adapting the strategy and business model. The development of measures and strategic decisions based on the identified impacts are described as part of the management approach. As indicated by the respective descriptions, all identified risks result directly from identified actual and potential impacts. They are therefore also based on the breadth and diversity of countries, mar- kets, industries and business activities in Continental’s value chain. Therefore, the risks are inherently linked to Continental’s strategy and business model. The assessment of material impacts takes into account all workers in the value chain but is explicitly focused on workers in Conti- nental’s supply chain. Connections to the company’s own opera- tions, product portfolio and business relationships are taken into ac- count where relevant. As Continental sources goods, materials and services from numer- ous industries along the value chain, this essentially has an actual or potential impact on all types of workers. Workers who work on Continental’s premises but are not counted as part of the com- pany’s own workforce, as well as workers who work for direct sup- pliers or indirect suppliers in the deeper value chain, are considered to be particularly affected. In both cases, this includes vulnerable groups such as migrant workers. The impacts on workers in the downstream value chain are rather considered as indirect. Workers in Continental’s joint ventures are especially impacted if the joint venture is also a supplier. Continental’s assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities did not focus on workers in the value chain with specific character- istics or in specific activities and contexts, and accordingly did not provide an understanding of a greater exposure to harm. These specifics include the fact that Continental’s global value chain includes many industries, countries and markets and thus also regions in which there is a significant potential for negative im- pacts with regard to child labor, forced labor or compulsory labor, in particular in Pakistan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or industries such as the quarrying of stone, sand and clay or grow- ing of perennial crops. The assessment of the material negative impacts regarding work- ers in the value chain was integrated in the general impact, risk and opportunity assessment following the defined methodology. The methodology takes into consideration two perspectives: All nega- tive impacts are to be considered widespread or systemic as they relate to countries, certain markets, industries and business activi- ties or other business relationships in Continental’s value chain. In addition, the methodology takes into account actual event-based negative impacts wherever the impact description contains a refer- ence to concrete actual incidents. Material risks arising from the impacts on workers in the value chain are not attributable to specific groups of people but are de- pendent on industries and geographical aspects."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 194 Metrics Related to Workers in the Value Chain Supplier self-assessment questionnaires 2024 Number of available valid supplier self-assessment questionnaires (as at December 31) 1,534 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Valid supplier self-assessment questionnaires via the EcoVadis and NQC sustainability platforms are considered. For EcoVadis, self-assessments published within the reporting years 2023 and 2024 are included. For NQC, the self-assessments that are valid at December 31, 2024 are count. - The metric is entity-specific. Severe human rights violations related to workers in the value chain 2024 Total number of known incidents of severe human rights violations related to workers in the value chain of Continental 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of case management in the RVCDDS. - The data is collected through the various complaint mechanisms of the Continental Group. The incidents considered are severe incidents relating to human rights that were reported in Continental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person who belongs to Continental’s value chain. - This information represents Continental’s current knowledge and includes incidents of which Continental has substantiated knowledge regarding the specific incidents. - The metric is entity-specific. Fines, penalties and compensation for severe human rights violations 2024 Total amount of fines, penalties and compensation in relation to severe human rights violations in Continental’s value chain, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of case management in the RVCDDS. - Fines, penalties and compensation paid out during the reporting year are included. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. The incidents considered are severe incidents relating to human rights that were reported in Conti- nental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person belonging to Continental’s value chain. - Related expenses within the meaning of the ESRS are reported in the consolidated financial statements under Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 194 Metrics Related to Workers in the Value Chain Supplier self-assessment questionnaires 2024 Number of available valid supplier self-assessment questionnaires (as at December 31) 1,534 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Valid supplier self-assessment questionnaires via the EcoVadis and NQC sustainability platforms are considered. For EcoVadis, self-assessments published within the reporting years 2023 and 2024 are included. For NQC, the self-assessments that are valid at December 31, 2024 are count. - The metric is entity-specific. Severe human rights violations related to workers in the value chain 2024 Total number of known incidents of severe human rights violations related to workers in the value chain of Continental 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of case management in the RVCDDS. - The data is collected through the various complaint mechanisms of the Continental Group. The incidents considered are severe incidents relating to human rights that were reported in Continental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person who belongs to Continental’s value chain. - This information represents Continental’s current knowledge and includes incidents of which Continental has substantiated knowledge regarding the specific incidents. - The metric is entity-specific. Fines, penalties and compensation for severe human rights violations 2024 Total amount of fines, penalties and compensation in relation to severe human rights violations in Continental’s value chain, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of case management in the RVCDDS. - Fines, penalties and compensation paid out during the reporting year are included. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. The incidents considered are severe incidents relating to human rights that were reported in Conti- nental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person belonging to Continental’s value chain. - Related expenses within the meaning of the ESRS are reported in the consolidated financial statements under Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 194 Metrics Related to Workers in the Value Chain Supplier self-assessment questionnaires 2024 Number of available valid supplier self-assessment questionnaires (as at December 31) 1,534 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Valid supplier self-assessment questionnaires via the EcoVadis and NQC sustainability platforms are considered. For EcoVadis, self-assessments published within the reporting years 2023 and 2024 are included. For NQC, the self-assessments that are valid at December 31, 2024 are count. - The metric is entity-specific. Severe human rights violations related to workers in the value chain 2024 Total number of known incidents of severe human rights violations related to workers in the value chain of Continental 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of case management in the RVCDDS. - The data is collected through the various complaint mechanisms of the Continental Group. The incidents considered are severe incidents relating to human rights that were reported in Continental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person who belongs to Continental’s value chain. - This information represents Continental’s current knowledge and includes incidents of which Continental has substantiated knowledge regarding the specific incidents. - The metric is entity-specific. Fines, penalties and compensation for severe human rights violations 2024 Total amount of fines, penalties and compensation in relation to severe human rights violations in Continental’s value chain, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of case management in the RVCDDS. - Fines, penalties and compensation paid out during the reporting year are included. - The data is collected by the legal entities of the Continental Group. The incidents considered are severe incidents relating to human rights that were reported in Conti- nental systems during the reporting year and that involve a person belonging to Continental’s value chain. - Related expenses within the meaning of the ESRS are reported in the consolidated financial statements under Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 195 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Affected Communities Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential negative im- pacts and risks were identified in relation to affected communities. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the ap- plied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the re- spective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and correspond- ing reporting is required. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. › Continental operates in countries, certain markets and business activities where significant negative impacts on affected commu- nities in relation to harmful environmental impacts, security prac- tices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, can oc- cur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 62) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct suppliers also oper- ate in industries and certain markets where significant negative impacts on affected communities in relation to harmful environ- mental impacts, security practices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, can occur if they are not adequately pre- vented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 63) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. The deeper supply chain, beyond the direct suppli- ers also operates in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on affected communities in relation to harmful environmental impacts, security practices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, are to be expected if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, im- pact 64) › Continental and especially its supply chain operate in certain markets and industries where potential incidents relating to the violation of the rights of affected communities (e.g. land rights) can occur. If, in the worst-case scenario, Continental’s due dili- gence processes were to fail and related severe violations were to occur, Continental could face sanctions with significant penal- ties and fines or even business on hold for the respective busi- ness operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 65) Affected Communities (ESRS S3)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 195 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Affected Communities Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential negative im- pacts and risks were identified in relation to affected communities. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the ap- plied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the re- spective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and correspond- ing reporting is required. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. › Continental operates in countries, certain markets and business activities where significant negative impacts on affected commu- nities in relation to harmful environmental impacts, security prac- tices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, can oc- cur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 62) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct suppliers also oper- ate in industries and certain markets where significant negative impacts on affected communities in relation to harmful environ- mental impacts, security practices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, can occur if they are not adequately pre- vented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 63) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. The deeper supply chain, beyond the direct suppli- ers also operates in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on affected communities in relation to harmful environmental impacts, security practices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, are to be expected if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, im- pact 64) › Continental and especially its supply chain operate in certain markets and industries where potential incidents relating to the violation of the rights of affected communities (e.g. land rights) can occur. If, in the worst-case scenario, Continental’s due dili- gence processes were to fail and related severe violations were to occur, Continental could face sanctions with significant penal- ties and fines or even business on hold for the respective busi- ness operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 65) Affected Communities (ESRS S3)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 195 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Affected Communities Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential negative im- pacts and risks were identified in relation to affected communities. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the ap- plied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the re- spective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and correspond- ing reporting is required. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. › Continental operates in countries, certain markets and business activities where significant negative impacts on affected commu- nities in relation to harmful environmental impacts, security prac- tices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, can oc- cur if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 62) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct suppliers also oper- ate in industries and certain markets where significant negative impacts on affected communities in relation to harmful environ- mental impacts, security practices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, can occur if they are not adequately pre- vented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 63) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. The deeper supply chain, beyond the direct suppli- ers also operates in industries and certain markets where severe negative impacts on affected communities in relation to harmful environmental impacts, security practices and land rights as well as other human rights topics, are to be expected if they are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, im- pact 64) › Continental and especially its supply chain operate in certain markets and industries where potential incidents relating to the violation of the rights of affected communities (e.g. land rights) can occur. If, in the worst-case scenario, Continental’s due dili- gence processes were to fail and related severe violations were to occur, Continental could face sanctions with significant penal- ties and fines or even business on hold for the respective busi- ness operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 65) Affected Communities (ESRS S3)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 198 The channels are communicated via the external communication platforms and mentioned in supplier training sessions on the topic of responsible value chains. Further, Continentals Business Partner Code of Conduct comprises a chapter on complaint mechanisms, which helps to raise awareness about Continentals integrity system. Continental does not explicitly assess the awareness and trust of af- fected communities in these channels. In order to protect users of the integrity system, information on all kinds of potential violation can be reported anonymously. Report- ing and investigation information is treated confidentially in accord- ance with applicable laws throughout the entire management of the case. The whistleblowing process is in line with the German Whistleblower Protection Act and relevant international legislation. Targets Related to Affected Communities Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to affected communities, it was decided to pursue the management approaches described and not to set a time-bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the track- ing of progress are described in the related management ap- proaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to affected communities beyond the described manage- ment approaches. Metrics in Relation to Affected Communities Severe human rights violations related to affected communities 2024 Total number of known incidents of serious human rights violations related to Continental’s affected communities 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of the case management in the RVCDDS. - The incidents mainly involve violations of environmental rights, security practices and land rights of affected communities. - The data is collected through the various complaint mechanisms of the Continental Group. The incidents considered are severe human rights incidents that were reported in Continental’s systems during the reporting year and that involve a person who belongs to an affected community of Continental. - This information represents Continental’s current knowledge and includes incidents of which Continental has substantiated knowledge regarding the specific incidents. - The metric is entity-specific. Fines, penalties and compensation for severe human rights violations 2024 Total amount of fines, penalties and compensation for severe human rights violations in relation to affected communities, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The severity of incidents is regularly evaluated as part of the case management in the RVCDDS. - The incidents mainly involve violations of environmental rights, security practices and land rights of affected communities. - Fines, penalties, and compensation paid out during the reporting year are included. - The data is collected through the various complaint mechanisms of the Continental Group. The incidents considered are severe human rights incidents that were reported in Continental’s systems during the reporting year and that involve a person who belongs to an affected community of Continental. - Related expenses within the meaning of ESRS are reported in the consolidated financial statements under Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 199 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Consumers and End-Users Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative and positive impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in relation to consumers and end-users. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied meth- odology, does not take into account mitigation through the man- agement approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropri- ate management approaches are relevant and corresponding re- porting is required. As positive impacts and opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, the de- scriptions are presented from a net perspective which, for methodi- cal reasons, considers the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Technical and product compliance › Continental has recorded individual quality incidents in 2024 which are assumed to have limited impacts on the personal safety of consumers. Beyond the confirmed incidents, and in par- ticular considering potential quality defects or misuse of Conti- nental’s products, significant negative impacts on the personal safety of consumers and end-users of Continental’s products could occur if not adequately managed or prevented. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 66) › Some of Continental’s products, applications and services process and handle consumers’ and end-users' data (e.g. from connected phones, addresses). Therefore, incidents with significant negative impacts related to violations of data protection rights can occur if these are not adequately prevented or mitigated. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 68) › Given the broadness of Continental’s portfolio of components and systems for vehicles and industrial applications relevant to con- sumers’ personal safety and the considerable increase in regula- tions and market trends relating to consumer protection and product safety, Continental could face significant sales losses in the respective businesses, especially in the medium term, if the speed of change exceeds the speed of adaptation. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 69) › Continental operates in industries and has a portfolio where inci- dents related to product safety, technical standards and require- ments for consumers and end-users can occur. If, in the worst- case scenario, Continental’s prevention processes were to fail and related severe incidents were to occur, Continental could face sanctions with significant penalties and fines, remedy costs or even business-on-hold for the respective businesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 70) Safe mobility › Continental’s product portfolio includes numerous safety-relevant products (e.g. brakes, sensors, tires) which are constantly evolving and therefore presumably have a substantive positive impact on the personal safety of consumers and end-users and put pressure on markets and other market participants to continuously im- prove. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 67) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming because of further increasing regulatory requirements and market trends related to safety and consumer protection. This can lead to changing requirements for certain products and innovations of Continental. If Continental is able to utilize these market drivers effectively, specific businesses activities (especially tires and brakes) can profit directly or indirectly from substantial growth opportunities or even new business fields/models in the long term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 71) Consumers and End-Users (ESRS S4)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 200 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Consumers and End-users The identified actual and potential impacts on consumers and end- users are industry- and portfolio-inherent and therefore linked to Continental's strategy and business model. The identified material actual and potential impacts on consumers and end-users are of relevance for Continental's strategy and busi- ness model as described in the management approaches on safe mobility and on technical and product compliance. Impacts, risks and opportunities are directly interrelated and thereby directly relevant for Continental's strategy and business model. All risks and opportunities arise directly from the corresponding im- pacts. Consumers or end-users of Continental's products and services are typically consumers or customers using vehicles with Continental’s components and systems. In addition, in the industrial application environment there are different types of industrial workers being di- rectly or indirectly users of industrial applications containing Conti- nental’s components and systems. The consumers and end-users subject to the identified impacts comprise consumers and end-users of products which, as de- scribed in the impacts, are inherently relevant regarding potential harm to their personal safety. The identified impacts also cover consumers and end-users of products and services which are rele- vant regarding potential negative impacts on privacy rights (e.g. personal data). Consumers and end-users who are dependent on accurate and ac- cessible product or service information as well as consumers and end-users who are particularly vulnerable to health or privacy im- pacts or impacts from marketing and sales strategies (e.g. children) are not in focus of the identified impacts but may nevertheless be end-users especially of vehicle components. In general, the identified actual and potential impacts are industry- and portfolio-inherent and therefore considered systemic. Never- theless, the actual impacts are incident-based. The assessment of the material negative impacts on consumers and/or end-users was integrated in the general impact, risk and op- portunity assessment following the defined methodology. The methodology takes into consideration both perspectives: All nega- tive impacts are considered widespread or systemic as they are re- lated to Continental’s operations, sourcing or other business rela- tionships. This also includes event-based impacts on the personal safety of consumers and end-users of Continental ́s products or potential violations of their data privacy rights. In addition, the methodology factors in event-based actual negative impacts, e.g. concrete recorded quality incidents. The identified material positive impact relates to Continental's prod- ucts (e.g. driver assistance systems, brake systems or tire pressure monitoring systems) for the safety of consumers and end-users while driving or in other traffic situations. In general, the identified impacts, risks and opportunities include all consumers and end-users. Continental’s assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities did not focus on consumers or end-users with particular character- istics and correspondingly did not provide an understanding of po- tential specific negative impacts. Based on the IRO assessment in Continental’s interpretation, the assessment of actual and potential negative impacts in particular through Continental’s products, sys- tems and services for vehicles has the potential to affect every user of vehicles worldwide as an end-user. The identified material risks related to impacts and dependencies on consumers and/or end-users are related to all consumers and/or end-users."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 200 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Consumers and End-users The identified actual and potential impacts on consumers and end- users are industry- and portfolio-inherent and therefore linked to Continental's strategy and business model. The identified material actual and potential impacts on consumers and end-users are of relevance for Continental's strategy and busi- ness model as described in the management approaches on safe mobility and on technical and product compliance. Impacts, risks and opportunities are directly interrelated and thereby directly relevant for Continental's strategy and business model. All risks and opportunities arise directly from the corresponding im- pacts. Consumers or end-users of Continental's products and services are typically consumers or customers using vehicles with Continental’s components and systems. In addition, in the industrial application environment there are different types of industrial workers being di- rectly or indirectly users of industrial applications containing Conti- nental’s components and systems. The consumers and end-users subject to the identified impacts comprise consumers and end-users of products which, as de- scribed in the impacts, are inherently relevant regarding potential harm to their personal safety. The identified impacts also cover consumers and end-users of products and services which are rele- vant regarding potential negative impacts on privacy rights (e.g. personal data). Consumers and end-users who are dependent on accurate and ac- cessible product or service information as well as consumers and end-users who are particularly vulnerable to health or privacy im- pacts or impacts from marketing and sales strategies (e.g. children) are not in focus of the identified impacts but may nevertheless be end-users especially of vehicle components. In general, the identified actual and potential impacts are industry- and portfolio-inherent and therefore considered systemic. Never- theless, the actual impacts are incident-based. The assessment of the material negative impacts on consumers and/or end-users was integrated in the general impact, risk and op- portunity assessment following the defined methodology. The methodology takes into consideration both perspectives: All nega- tive impacts are considered widespread or systemic as they are re- lated to Continental’s operations, sourcing or other business rela- tionships. This also includes event-based impacts on the personal safety of consumers and end-users of Continental ́s products or potential violations of their data privacy rights. In addition, the methodology factors in event-based actual negative impacts, e.g. concrete recorded quality incidents. The identified material positive impact relates to Continental's prod- ucts (e.g. driver assistance systems, brake systems or tire pressure monitoring systems) for the safety of consumers and end-users while driving or in other traffic situations. In general, the identified impacts, risks and opportunities include all consumers and end-users. Continental’s assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities did not focus on consumers or end-users with particular character- istics and correspondingly did not provide an understanding of po- tential specific negative impacts. Based on the IRO assessment in Continental’s interpretation, the assessment of actual and potential negative impacts in particular through Continental’s products, sys- tems and services for vehicles has the potential to affect every user of vehicles worldwide as an end-user. The identified material risks related to impacts and dependencies on consumers and/or end-users are related to all consumers and/or end-users."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 200 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Consumers and End-users The identified actual and potential impacts on consumers and end- users are industry- and portfolio-inherent and therefore linked to Continental's strategy and business model. The identified material actual and potential impacts on consumers and end-users are of relevance for Continental's strategy and busi- ness model as described in the management approaches on safe mobility and on technical and product compliance. Impacts, risks and opportunities are directly interrelated and thereby directly relevant for Continental's strategy and business model. All risks and opportunities arise directly from the corresponding im- pacts. Consumers or end-users of Continental's products and services are typically consumers or customers using vehicles with Continental’s components and systems. In addition, in the industrial application environment there are different types of industrial workers being di- rectly or indirectly users of industrial applications containing Conti- nental’s components and systems. The consumers and end-users subject to the identified impacts comprise consumers and end-users of products which, as de- scribed in the impacts, are inherently relevant regarding potential harm to their personal safety. The identified impacts also cover consumers and end-users of products and services which are rele- vant regarding potential negative impacts on privacy rights (e.g. personal data). Consumers and end-users who are dependent on accurate and ac- cessible product or service information as well as consumers and end-users who are particularly vulnerable to health or privacy im- pacts or impacts from marketing and sales strategies (e.g. children) are not in focus of the identified impacts but may nevertheless be end-users especially of vehicle components. In general, the identified actual and potential impacts are industry- and portfolio-inherent and therefore considered systemic. Never- theless, the actual impacts are incident-based. The assessment of the material negative impacts on consumers and/or end-users was integrated in the general impact, risk and op- portunity assessment following the defined methodology. The methodology takes into consideration both perspectives: All nega- tive impacts are considered widespread or systemic as they are re- lated to Continental’s operations, sourcing or other business rela- tionships. This also includes event-based impacts on the personal safety of consumers and end-users of Continental ́s products or potential violations of their data privacy rights. In addition, the methodology factors in event-based actual negative impacts, e.g. concrete recorded quality incidents. The identified material positive impact relates to Continental's prod- ucts (e.g. driver assistance systems, brake systems or tire pressure monitoring systems) for the safety of consumers and end-users while driving or in other traffic situations. In general, the identified impacts, risks and opportunities include all consumers and end-users. Continental’s assessment of the impacts, risks and opportunities did not focus on consumers or end-users with particular character- istics and correspondingly did not provide an understanding of po- tential specific negative impacts. Based on the IRO assessment in Continental’s interpretation, the assessment of actual and potential negative impacts in particular through Continental’s products, sys- tems and services for vehicles has the potential to affect every user of vehicles worldwide as an end-user. The identified material risks related to impacts and dependencies on consumers and/or end-users are related to all consumers and/or end-users."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 201 Management Approaches to Consumers and End-Users Technical and product compliance Technical compliance means that all products (system, hardware, software and/or services) comply with the specifications placed on them and meet the applicable mandatory product requirements. Technical compliance obligations are generally contained in statu- tory technical regulations, external standards (national/interna- tional), applicable internal rules, technical customer requirements contractually agreed upon as well as in the externally communi- cated voluntary commitments of Continental. The main objective of Continental’s management approach to Technical and product compliance is to ensure the technical com- pliance of our products, including systems, hardware, software and/or services. Five categories of technical compliance are taken into consideration in this respect: product safety, product conform- ity, environmental conformity of products, cybersecurity of prod- ucts, data protection and intellectual property. At the same time, the management approach aims to protect Continental and its em- ployees from possible negative consequences and risks that any deviation from the technical compliance may cause. To ensure technical compliance in all five categories, Continental has established a technical Compliance Management System (tCMS) as a binding set of rules integrated into Continental’s man- agement system. The management approach covers the Continental Group world- wide as well as the entire product life cycle and all related functions. Thus, it also covers all products and services of Continental and therefore, all consumers and end-users of these products and ser- vices are as well indirectly covered. Continental’s governance and accountability with regards to tech- nical compliance follow a three-lines-approach. In the first line, the accountability for the execution lies with the operational functions at the level of the group sectors, business areas, legal entities, plants and other locations. These operational functions include among others research & development (R&D), engineering, sales, purchasing, manufacturing, after-sales and marketing. In the sec- ond line, the governance framework and operational oversight are exercised by technical compliance functions and roles (e.g. within quality, intellectual property and R&D). The third line is the inde- pendent internal audit function. The management approach is su- pervised by the Executive Board. Each line performs specific tasks, has explicit responsibilities and is assigned to different areas within the organization. As the central requirement, independence of the individual lines is ensured through organizational separation. The tCMS within Continental comprises a large number of pro- cesses related to technical compliance (tC): › tC case management, which deals with the management of tC problems that occur when the product is in the field, i.e. already in use or no longer under the management control of Continental. It includes the identification of tC problems, their initial assessment, analysis, mitigation of problems, prevention of recurrence, closure of problem cases, lessons learned, and an audit after works com- pletion. › tC clearing management, which deals with the management of tC problems that occur before the product is in the field or while it is still under the management control of Continental. › identification and implementation of tC obligations, a defined pro- cess for the identification of our technical compliance obligations, i.e. mandatory requirements for Continental's products and ser- vices, and providing these requirements in a traceable form for implementation. › tC risk management for determining tC risks and ensuring their management and monitoring along the entire product life cycle. › tC business partner integrity management to ensure the tech- nical compliance of suppliers, other third-party providers as well as minority holdings of Continental, including associates and joint ventures without management control which supply materials or components for use in Continental’s products, and providers of goods and services. › tCMS monitoring and reporting, to ensure that the tCMS is ade- quately monitored and that tC-related information is collected, documented, communicated and made available to the relevant stakeholders at every level of the organization. The tCMS is implemented in a close collaboration between Group, all group sectors, business areas, segments, functions and regions. Central tCMS teams ensure that all categories and aspects are cov- ered and synergies are realized. The metrics related to consumers and end-users “Coverage of qual- ity management systems” and “New field quality events” track Continental’s efforts in securing technical and product compliance."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Social Information 201 Management Approaches to Consumers and End-Users Technical and product compliance Technical compliance means that all products (system, hardware, software and/or services) comply with the specifications placed on them and meet the applicable mandatory product requirements. Technical compliance obligations are generally contained in statu- tory technical regulations, external standards (national/interna- tional), applicable internal rules, technical customer requirements contractually agreed upon as well as in the externally communi- cated voluntary commitments of Continental. The main objective of Continental’s management approach to Technical and product compliance is to ensure the technical com- pliance of our products, including systems, hardware, software and/or services. Five categories of technical compliance are taken into consideration in this respect: product safety, product conform- ity, environmental conformity of products, cybersecurity of prod- ucts, data protection and intellectual property. At the same time, the management approach aims to protect Continental and its em- ployees from possible negative consequences and risks that any deviation from the technical compliance may cause. To ensure technical compliance in all five categories, Continental has established a technical Compliance Management System (tCMS) as a binding set of rules integrated into Continental’s man- agement system. The management approach covers the Continental Group world- wide as well as the entire product life cycle and all related functions. Thus, it also covers all products and services of Continental and therefore, all consumers and end-users of these products and ser- vices are as well indirectly covered. Continental’s governance and accountability with regards to tech- nical compliance follow a three-lines-approach. In the first line, the accountability for the execution lies with the operational functions at the level of the group sectors, business areas, legal entities, plants and other locations. These operational functions include among others research & development (R&D), engineering, sales, purchasing, manufacturing, after-sales and marketing. In the sec- ond line, the governance framework and operational oversight are exercised by technical compliance functions and roles (e.g. within quality, intellectual property and R&D). The third line is the inde- pendent internal audit function. The management approach is su- pervised by the Executive Board. Each line performs specific tasks, has explicit responsibilities and is assigned to different areas within the organization. As the central requirement, independence of the individual lines is ensured through organizational separation. The tCMS within Continental comprises a large number of pro- cesses related to technical compliance (tC): › tC case management, which deals with the management of tC problems that occur when the product is in the field, i.e. already in use or no longer under the management control of Continental. It includes the identification of tC problems, their initial assessment, analysis, mitigation of problems, prevention of recurrence, closure of problem cases, lessons learned, and an audit after works com- pletion. › tC clearing management, which deals with the management of tC problems that occur before the product is in the field or while it is still under the management control of Continental. › identification and implementation of tC obligations, a defined pro- cess for the identification of our technical compliance obligations, i.e. mandatory requirements for Continental's products and ser- vices, and providing these requirements in a traceable form for implementation. › tC risk management for determining tC risks and ensuring their management and monitoring along the entire product life cycle. › tC business partner integrity management to ensure the tech- nical compliance of suppliers, other third-party providers as well as minority holdings of Continental, including associates and joint ventures without management control which supply materials or components for use in Continental’s products, and providers of goods and services. › tCMS monitoring and reporting, to ensure that the tCMS is ade- quately monitored and that tC-related information is collected, documented, communicated and made available to the relevant stakeholders at every level of the organization. The tCMS is implemented in a close collaboration between Group, all group sectors, business areas, segments, functions and regions. Central tCMS teams ensure that all categories and aspects are cov- ered and synergies are realized. The metrics related to consumers and end-users “Coverage of qual- ity management systems” and “New field quality events” track Continental’s efforts in securing technical and product compliance."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 110 Governance Administrative, management and supervisory bodies The Executive Board of Continental AG consists of six members and manages the company under their own responsibility in the company’s interests. All members of the Executive Board jointly bear responsibility for managing the company. Regardless of this principle of joint overall responsibility, each individual Executive Board member is individually responsible for their respective Exec- utive Board function entrusted to them. Within the Executive Board, the Executive Board member for Group Human Relations (director of Labor Relations) and Group Sustainability is responsible for sus- tainability. The Management Board is supported by the Group Sus- tainability group function in sustainability management, the prepa- ration of the sustainability report and reporting to the Supervisory Board. Continental’s Supervisory Board consists of 20 members and is re- sponsible for appointing the members of the Executive Board, as well as for supervising and advising the Executive Board in its man- agement of the company. This includes, in particular, issues relating to the company’s strategy, planning, business development, risk sit- uation, risk management, compliance and regularity of financial and sustainability reporting. Further information on the individual Executive Board members and Supervisory Board members can be found on our website. The Supervisory Board regularly addresses sustainability matters. In addition, it has established a Sustainability Working Group that specifically addresses sustainability matters relevant for Continental on a regular basis. The working group consists of two shareholder representatives and two employee representatives. All members have relevant skills and specialist knowledge. Furthermore, sustain- ability reporting, sustainability-related risk management, the related internal control system as well sustainability-related compliance management systems are regularly addressed by the Audit Com- mittee of the Supervisory Board. Further information on the expertise of the individual Supervisory Board members can be found in the Corporate governance state- ment of the annual report. In accordance with recommendation C.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board has specified objectives for its composition as well as developed a profile of skills and exper- tise covering, among others, sustainability matters, particularly in the areas of environment and social responsibility. Furthermore, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are expanding sustainability-related expertise through regular participa- tion in different exchange formats on developments regarding sus- tainability in their area of responsibility, and in close consultation with sustainability experts within and outside the organization. Through this continuous exchange on sustainability matters, the skills and specialist knowledge of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies are adequate to manage material impacts, risks and opportunities. The Supervisory Board members collectively cover all skills, exper- tise and experience deemed to be significant in view of Conti- nental’s business activities. These include in particular: › Corporate governance, › Sector- and company-specific experience, › International experience, › Sustainability, › Risk management and reporting. In addition, this enables the company to provide newly elected members of the Supervisory Board with a comprehensive overview of the company’s products and technologies as well as finances, controlling, corporate governance and sustainability at Continental. All Executive Board members have experience relevant to Conti- nental’s sectors, products, and geographical locations as well as fur- ther expertise that is relevant for their responsibilities. These crite- ria are, among others, also part of the internal succession planning for management positions. Metrics: Composition and diversity Composition of the management and supervisory bodies 2024 Number of executive members (as at Dec. 31) 6 Number of non-executive members (as at Dec. 31) 20 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The management and supervisory bodies are the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Continental AG. - The composition of the management and supervisory bodies as at December 31, 2024 is taken into account. - The executive members of Continental management are the members of the Executive Board. The non-executive members are the members of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board comprises 20 members in accordance with the German Co-determination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz – Mit- bestG) and the company’s Articles of Incorporation. Half the mem- bers of the Supervisory Board are elected individually by the share- holders in the Shareholders’ Meeting (shareholder representatives), while the other half are elected by the employees of Conti- nental AG and its German subsidiaries (employee representatives). Of the ten employee representatives, three members are represent- atives of labor unions (two representatives from IG Metall and one representative from IGBCE)."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 111 Gender distribution in management and supervisory bodies (as at December 31), in % 2024 Female 27 Male 73 Total 100 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The management and supervisory bodies are the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Continental AG. - The gender distribution of the Executive Board is based on the information specifically documented in Continental’s systems. This information therefore represents Continental’s state of knowledge, taking into account local legislation and co-determination. - The gender distribution of the Supervisory Board is based on the information provided in their own résumés, which are published on Continental’s website. - The ratio of female to male members of the management and supervisory bodies is 7 to 19. Independent members of the Supervisory Board 2024 Independent members of Continental’s Supervisory Board (as at December 31), in % 100 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The independence of a Supervisory Board member is defined in accordance with German Corporate Governance Code (DCGK). - Taking into account the ownership structure, a Supervisory Board member is to be considered independent in the context of this metric if they are independent of the company and its Executive Board. In accordance with the DCGK, only shareholder representatives must prove their independence. Consequently, only the shareholder representatives are included in this metric. Roles and responsibilities Oversight regarding sustainability is exercised in a staggered ap- proach through regular meetings with a pre-defined agenda and adoption of resolutions, if applicable, in the following way: › The Sustainability Steering Committee is responsible for over- seeing Group Sustainability and operational sustainability gov- ernance. › Oversight of the Sustainability Steering Committee is exercised by the Executive Board. › Oversight of the Executive Board is exercised by the Supervisory Board. Group Sustainability reports directly to the Executive Board mem- ber responsible for Group Human Relations (director of Labor Rela- tions) and Group Sustainability. Ultimate responsibility for the management, monitoring and over- sight of impacts, risks and opportunities in the area of sustainability lies with the Executive Board, which delegates operational tasks to Group Sustainability. Sustainability management within the Continental Group is regu- lated by dedicated sustainability rules. Seven administrative, man- agement and supervisory bodies are responsible for monitoring Continental’s impacts, risks and opportunities: › Supervisory Board: The Supervisory Board is responsible for the oversight of the integration of sustainability matters into the busi- ness strategy and corporate planning. This includes the composi- tion of the Executive Board (including the responsibility for sus- tainability), the integration of sustainability into the remuneration system of the Executive Board as well as the assessment of sus- tainability reporting. › Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board: With regard to sustainability the Audit Committee deals with the monitoring of the accounting processes including the processes on sustainabil- ity reporting. › Sustainability Working Group of the Supervisory Board: The Sustainability Working Group established by the Supervisory Board deals with sustainability matters relevant to Continental. The working group includes two shareholder representatives and two employee representatives. › Executive Board: The Executive Board of Continental AG has overall responsibility for sustainability. Important strategic deci- sions regarding sustainability with a significant Group relevance are to be taken by the Executive Board, as well as a regular review and, if necessary, update of the sustainability ambition, by system- atically considering sustainability-related impacts, risks and op- portunities. › Chief Sustainability Officer: Within the Executive Board, the Ex- ecutive Board member for Group Human Relations (director of Labor Relations) and Group Sustainability assumes the role of Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). › Sustainability Steering Committee: The Sustainability Steering Committee established by the Executive Board assumes the role of primary steering and decision-making body for sustainability at Group level. This responsibility includes (among other scopes): › Reviewing and confirming the assessment of material impacts, risks and opportunities, › Defining the Group-wide sustainability strategy, public sustaina- bility targets and corresponding key actions, › Defining the Group-wide sustainability metrics (key perfor- mance indicators) that go beyond the legal requirements. › Group Sustainability: Group Sustainability holds operational re- sponsibility for the sustainability framework at Group level in close collaboration with other functions. The main tasks are fo- cused on compliance with sustainability regulations, governance and reporting, including the IRO assessment. Further roles regarding sustainability are defined by the sustainabil- ity governance framework, e.g. at group sector level."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report 99 Process for Identifying and Assessing Material IROs Description of methodology and assumptions Continental assesses its impacts, risks and opportunities according to the ESRS methodology requirements on double materiality (IRO assessment). Continental’s 2024 IRO assessment has been conduc- ted simultaneously with both impact materiality (inside-out) and financial materiality (outside-in) perspectives. Identification and creation of the longlist of IROs The list of sustainability matters of the ESRS 1.AR16 formed the starting point of the identification of impacts, risks and opportuni- ties. In addition for risks and opportunities, certain event types (e.g. fines, loss of sales or growth of sales) were considered. These initial scenarios and descriptions of IROs have been identified at topic, sub-topic or sub-sub-topic level and have been aggregated when- ever it was relevant and appropriate considering Continental’s busi- ness activities, value chain, geographical location, industries, and business models. Company-specific aspects were also considered, all of which could be assigned to the predefined list of sustainability matters. These scenarios specify the matters further for Conti- nental’s value chain and were partially split into individual scenarios for own operations, upstream and/or downstream value chain, whenever relevant. Initial gross assessment In an initial step, the IRO scenarios were centrally assessed from a gross perspective. The gross perspective assesses impacts, risks and opportunities in a scenario that does not yet consider the exist- ing management approaches of Continental, as described in the re- spective topic-related sections. This initial gross assessment com- prised various assessments of the severity and magnitude of the effect as well as the likelihood. This assessment was based on the judgement and sustainability expertise of subject matter experts at Group level. Validation and assessment In a second step, the longlist of IRO scenarios was assessed from the perspectives of relevant stakeholders. In multiple workshops, different functions of Continental acted as proxies of internal and external affected stakeholders, subject matter experts and/or users of sustainability information. The participants of the workshops re- ceived the longlist and further information on the methodology in advance of the workshops and were trained in the methodology during the workshops. Each workshop included a validation, update and/or extension of the longlist. The IRO scenarios were then defined in greater detail, the gross assessment was validated or updated as appropriate, fur- ther information was collected and an initial net assessment was made. The net assessment considers the management approaches of Continental, as described in the respective topic-related sections."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 156 Continental requires its business partners in the natural rubber sup- ply chain to comply with the Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy in their own operations and further expects them to adhere to these principles throughout their entire value chain. The require- ments from supplier obligations can lead to audits and follow-up measures, e.g. corrective action plans (CAPs) or other mitigation measures. As part of its joint development partnership with the Deutsche Ge- sellschaft für internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), Continental is conducting training courses directly on site for small farmers in In- donesia to promote sustainable farming methods. Another relevant purchasing process is a so-called “risk mapping” (e.g. based on the Rubberway risk analysis and verified self-assess- ment procedures), which assesses potential deforestation at vari- ous upstream nodes in Continental’s natural rubber supply chain. To purchase natural rubber from responsible sources, Continental uses the digital trading platform Agridence (formerly HeveaCon- nect). Standardized information on compliance with social and en- vironmental standards, quality criteria and average sales prices can be viewed transparently on the platform. At the same time, the plat- form offers the opportunity to incorporate information from the analyses of the Rubberway platform. In addition, collaboration with industry to improve the methods and compliance with due diligence is another important process. Conti- nental is a member of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR). This includes annual reporting on progress and supports an industry-wide learning approach, which contributes to the effectiveness of the management approach. As a potential future lever to reduce some pressure on ecosystems, Continental has established research and development project called “Taraxagum”, which investigates and develops the potential of natural rubber from dandelions as a substitute for natural rubber from rubber trees in tropical regions. Traceability mechanisms have been implemented to improve, in particular, understanding and transparency in natural rubber pur- chasing. The Rubberway platform in particular, which was devel- oped in an industry collaboration, is used to trace natural rubber back to the natural rubber plantation. The management approach does not include regular monitoring of biodiversity status as well as its gains or losses. Nevertheless, Conti- nental takes into account the aspect of responsible sourcing and consumption from ecosystems, especially with regard to fulfilling high conservation standards and sustainable natural rubber cultiva- tion practices. Beyond the formalization of the overall management approaches in internal rules, as described in the management approaches to Envi- ronmental protection in the supply chain, Continental’s set of rules for biodiversity in responsible purchasing include the following public frameworks in particular: › Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy, › Commitments to a responsible value chain (RVC commitments), › Business Partner Code of Conduct. The management approaches are guided especially by regulatory requirements for due diligence, such as the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LksG) and EUDR. In addition, the management approach was harmonized with the GPSNR. The GPSNR is a platform that brings together different stakeholders and takes into account the interests of its members (from small- holders to natural rubber processors, tire and automotive manufac- turers, as well as civil society organizations). In addition, public con- sultations with non-members are held. The policies are communicated externally through our website and internally via Continental’s various channels. In addition, every new and existing direct supplier is requested to sign the Business Part- ner Code of Conduct. Downstream value chain Continental’s management approach to the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain addresses pollu- tion and climate change as key drivers of biodiversity loss. The re- lated management approaches are described in other sections in this sustainability report. › Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition with regard to climate change-related negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. This management approach addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy de- ployment. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change miti- gation, adaptation to climate change, energy efficiency and re- newable energy in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. › Product-related aspects relating to environmental protection with regard to the product-specific reduction of pollution in the prod- uct use phase. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection Management approaches to pollution prevention in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section."
