"Annual report 2024 - CFE 44 are now final. The last case on social criminal matters, brought by the Inspectorate against a temporary company composed of BPC and a partner for the “Jardins de la Chasse” site, resulted in a favourable ruling at first instance on 17 December 2024. However, the Labour Inspectorate appealed against this decision on 16 January 2025. Risks related to personal safety The often complex projects and operations carried out by the Group’s operating Business Units are subject to hazards that can jeopardise the health, safety and quality of life at work of employees and subcontractors. In the event of an accident or near-accident, the activity of the Business Unit concerned may be seriously affected and the resump­ tion of that activity is conditional on the implementation of appropriate corrective measures. To reduce personal safety risks, the Group has strengthened its commitment to safety with the launch in 2023 of a new “GO FOR ZERO” safety policy’. One of the aims of this policy is to ensure that all workers, employees, partners, subcontractors, visitors and cus­ tomers go home injury-free after work, whatever the operational and commercial challenges. CFE is aiming for “ZERO workplace accidents”. To achieve this, each employee applies the values of shared vigilance by ensuring their own safety as well as that of the people working alongside them. Each employee also has the opportunity to say STOP if they feel that the work being carried out could put them at risk. In addition, CFE is implementing the following risk management measures: • the introduction of safety visits to construction sites by Group and Business Unit managers from the Construction & Renovation segment, with the aim of promoting safety and well-being in the workplace and fostering a culture of safety, visible exemplary behaviour, risk identification and improved communication between workers in all departments; • raising awareness of tidiness and cleanliness; • prior analysis of the risks involved as far upstream of the projects as possible and the latest at the start of operations; • providing appropriate personal protective equipment; • putting in place collective protective equipment suited to prevention procedures and operating methods resulting from risk assessments (markings, railings, stairs, etc.) • conducting internal and external audits to assess procedures relating to projects with an impact on well-being at work; • setting up partnerships with external organisations; • organising innovative training and awareness-raising events, such as virtual reality training, to meet the Group’s needs as best as possible; • including clauses in contracts dedicated to the safety of subcontractors, and • complying with health-related and environmental measures put in place by the local authorities. Operational risks specific to the Real Estate Development segment Risks relating to the economic environment Projects are currently situated exclusively in Belgium, Luxembourg and Poland. A change in the principal macroeconomic indicators, the geopolitical environment and the economic cycle more generally may impact the confidence of households, investors and private and public entities, and may bring about (i) a fall in demand for hous­ ing and retail properties, as well as other categories of real estate, (ii) lower sale prices and lower returns on which those sale prices may be calculated, and (iii) a higher risk of default by service providers, building contractors and other stakeholders. Variations in interest rates may affect the ability of households and investors to acquire residential properties and, consequently, diminish the demand for such class of assets. On the office market, variations in long-term interest rates may also affect the return on which the price of office properties is calcu­ lated. Such variations may also have a significant impact on the segment’s ability to sell residential or office properties. However, certain factors can help mitigate these risks: • due to the shortage of well-located land, supply and demand are in principle under increasing pressure; • sectoral diversification of customers; • the value of real estate is primarily determined by the commercial value of the location of the property, and • investments are concentrated in sub-regions with high purchasing power. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 45 Risks associated with the removal of the reduced 6% VAT rate on the sale of housing (off-plan) fol­ lowing demolition-reconstruction work in Belgium From 30 June 2025, the reduced 6% VAT rate will no longer apply to sales of housing (off-plan) following demolition-reconstruction work. This reform has an impact on the activities of BPI Real Estate Belgium insofar as this reduced rate provided an economic stim­ ulus to the real estate development sector and to sales. The Union Professionnelle du Secteur de l’Immobilier (“UPSI”), in association with a number of real estate developers including BPI Real Estate Belgium, lodged an action for annulment with the Constitutional Court against the provisions limiting the favourable 6% VAT regime for the supply (sales) of real estate. The Constitutional Court re­ jected this action for annulment in a decision dated 20 February 2025. However, the new Federal Government has since announced that the favourable 6% VAT regime for the supply (sale) of real estate is to be extended. The precise details of this extension are not yet known at the time of writing. Risks related to real estate acquisitions Before acquiring land for development, the Business Units in the Real Estate Development segment study the financial, technical and town planning feasibility of the real estate project. Those feasibility studies are carried out by external experts or consultants and are based on assumptions concerning economic, market and other conditions (including estimates of potential sale prices). Despite these Business Units’ diligent approach, it is possible that they fail to take account of - or do not know - all the relevant factors needed to make an informed decision. To reduce this risk, the following measures have been taken: • systematic prior review of all property acquisitions by the CFE’s Investment Committee, and • inserting suspensive conditions in land purchase contracts. Risks related to real estate development All projects are dependent on planning, building and environmental permits being granted. Consequently, any project may be af­ fected by (i) inability to obtain, maintain or renew the necessary permits or (ii) any delay in the obtaining, maintaining or renewing of those permits, as well as (iii) the Business Units being unable to comply with the conditions of those permits. In fact, the number of appeals lodged against permits for new projects is on the increase, especially in the Brussels region. Furthermore, changes made by the competent authorities to the legal framework and the administrative procedures surrounding the filing for, delivery or validity of such permits may have a negative impact on the financial result of a project. The following management measures are therefore in place: • ensuring that managers and staff have the necessary knowledge concerning planning and permit law; • using the services of external consultants specialising in planning law in the region concerned; • prior review of planning permit when developing buildings, • insurance policies to cover the risk of withdrawal or cancellation of permits, and • ongoing assessment of and compliance with changes to planning permits and authorisations, and anticipation of possible changes. Furthermore, project delivery may be delayed or compromised by various factors, such as weather conditions, building site acci­ dents, natural disasters, industrial disputes, shortage of equipment or building materials, accidents or other unforeseen difficulties. The Business Units in the Real Estate Development segment can also incur additional project construction and development costs and penalties that exceed the initial estimates and lead times. To mitigate these risks, the following measures are in place: • transferring construction risks to subcontractors; • almost systematic assigning of project construction to CFE subsidiaries, and • arranging appropriate insurance policies. Liquidity and financing risks The development of projects involves substantial investments that are primarily financed by equity and external financing sources. It is possible, although not likely, that BPI Belgium, BPI Luxembourg or BPI Poland are unable to renew the existing finance agreements or attract new financing on commercially favourable terms. To mitigate these risks, the following managements measures are in place: • diversifying funding sources; • increasing confirmed credit lines; • using a commercial paper and medium term treasury notes programme, and Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 46 • several new project finance arrangements in both Belgium, Luxembourg and Poland were put in place on similar terms to those prevailing before the health crisis. As at 31 December 2024, BPI Belgium and its subsidiary BPI Luxembourg together had € 60 million in confirmed bilateral credit lines, of which € 3 million had been drawn down by BPI Luxembourg. Risks related to special-purpose vehicles To carry out some of their real estate projects, BPI Belgium, BPI Luxembourg and/or BPI Poland belong to special purpose vehicles (“SPVs”) which provide real guarantees in support of their credit facilities. The risk, in the event of the failure of this type of company and exercise of the guarantees, is that the proceeds from such exercise are not sufficient to cover some or all of the amount of shareholders’ equity or equivalent used as collateral for setting up the credit facility. The Business Units concerned therefore take measures and steps to mitigate risk, such as: • sharing risk with partners; • financing through non-recourse or limited-recourse debt against shareholders; • paying special attention to the preparation phase and stakeholder relations, and • monitoring marketing and sales momentum. Risks related to the ability to sell projects The activity, financial position, results and prospects of Business Units’ operating in Real Estate Development are almost entirely de­ pendent on the sale of its projects. Investments in real estate projects for which no planning permission has been obtained yet are relatively illiquid. The Business Units concerned may be unable to find a suitable buyer for this type of asset if it needs cash. Moreover, market conditions may force them sell their projects at lower prices than planned. The segment’s inability to generate positive cash flow from project sales can adversely affect its capacity to repay its debts. To mitigate this risk, the following measures and factors come into play: • carrying out careful market research before any investment and during development; • inserting suspensive conditions in land purchase contracts. • limiting unsecured transactions, with a minimum pre-commercialisation threshold required; • elasticity of demand in the residential market, and • adopting a conservative and prudent financing strategy, characterised by diversification of financing sources and a broad group of banking partners. Risks related to portfolio concentration The vast majority of projects in this segment are residential. Consequently, any slowdown or regulatory changes or any market changes affecting the residential market may have a considerable negative impact on the segment’s results and operations. In the financial year 2023, BPI Luxembourg was particularly affected by a slowdown in the sector and the market has recovered only slightly in 2024. The Group therefore takes the following risk management measures: • diversifying the portfolio and projects, in Belgium, Poland and Luxembourg, and • maximising anticipation of any legislative change likely to impact projects by providing for an adjustment of the contractual provisions (price, deadline) in the event of legislative, fiscal or regulatory change. Risks related to stakeholders The Real Estate Development segment maintains contractual relations with several parties, such as partners, investors, tenants, en­ trepreneurs, financial institutions and architects. Those stakeholders may experience disruptions in their operations or be confronted with financial difficulties that may cause a delay or total inability to meet their contractual obligations. The Business Units of the Real Estate Development segment are therefore ensuring that the following measures are implemented: • strengthening controls for awarding and monitoring works; • including guarantees in contractual agreements, with a preference for first demand bank guarantees; • prior screening and ongoing monitoring of stakeholder creditworthiness, and • arranging appropriate insurance policies. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 47 Risks specific to the Investments & Holding segment DEEP C HOLDING (PORT CONCESSIONS IN VIETNAM) Geopolitical risk The political situation in Vietnam has been stable for many years. However, even if highly unlikely, political risk can never be com­ pletely ruled out. Therefore, other than monitoring the evolution of the country’s political situation, no other specific measures to manage this risk are currently in place. Liquidity and financing risks Project development requires significant investment. Deep C Holding may be exposed to liquidity risk, in particular: • obligations to repay existing debt, and • general needs. Deep C Holding has therefore put in place corporate financing with its subsidiary Infra Asia Investment HK, as well as local financing in Vietnam to finance both fixed assets such as warehouses or leased infrastructure, and the working capital requirements of the various industrial zones etc. Green Offshore (minority stakes in Belgian offshore wind farms, Rentel and SeaMade) Given that (i) the two wind farms are built, financed and fully operational and (ii) a minimum price for the electricity produced is guaranteed by a green certificate mechanism, the significant residual risks are: • maintenance budget overruns, and • the production of green electricity, which depends on weather conditions and the availability of wind turbines. 1.3. Major events after the close of the financial year No significant change in the Group’s financial and commercial situation has occurred since 31 December 2024. 1.4. Research and development In 2024, the Group pursued a number of innovative projects. One of these projects involves kitting, which the BPC Group Business Unit has successfully trialled on its Erasme I and Tervuren sites. This intelligent logistics tool is aimed in particular at delivering goods to a consolidation centre, re-palletising ad hoc and LEAN-compliant phased delivery directly to the work area concerned. The Group’s digital transition also accelerated in 2024 by stepping up its efforts to develop tools based on artificial intelligence. These advances are part of the Group’s drive to modernise its approach to the building industry and offer its customers safer, sus­ tainable, high-performance solutions. For example, the Group has been working on a project based on artificial intelligence, called “AI-Generated Income Forecasting for Construction Sites”. The initial aim of this project was to use historical cash flow data from the sites of the Construction & Renova­ tion segment to create scripts applying polynomial regression at different degrees in order to optimise cash flow forecasts. Artificial intelligence would be used to adapt these scripts dynamically, taking account of project sectors (residential, logistics, industrial, etc.), building heights and foundation methods. Moreover, the teams explored potential applications in 2024, considering that future professional development could benefit from the integration of ERP systems, with data being a key factor. Finally, CFE Poland continues to use and update its parametric design model that generates a 3D model, a carbon footprint assess­ ment and a budget estimate for logistics or industrial projects in just a few clicks. This tool helps to understand the impact of differ­ ent parameters on project budgets and carbon footprints, enabling the Group to propose more optimal buildings to its customers. 1.5. Financial instruments The Group has defined a system of investment limits to manage the counterparty risk. This system determines maximum amounts eligible for investment by counterparty defined according to their credit rating published by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. These limits are regularly monitored and updated. 1.6. Outlook 2025 The medium- and long-term outlook for CFE is positive, thanks to its positioning in the growth markets of renovation and energy performance improvement of existing buildings, the development of infrastructure linked to the energy transition and sustainable mobility as well as industrial automation. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 48 The Real Estate market remains disrupted in the short term, both in the residential and office sectors. BPI Real Estate is expected to post a positive net income in 2025, although the extent of this will depend on the strength and speed of the real estate market recovery in Belgium as in Luxembourg. VMA expects a stable activity level for 2025 combined with an improvement in operating margin. At MOBIX, the benefits of the diversification of its operations is set to intensify in 2025. The Construction & Renovation subsidiaries anticipate a decline in sales in 2025, given the persistently unsettled economic environ­ ment. Priority will be given to selectively taking on new orders and improving operating performance. CFE expects a moderate contraction in turnover in 2025 and net income close to that of 2024. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 49 III. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 1. Reference code With regard to corporate governance, this statement contains the information required by the Code of Companies and Associa­ tions (“CSA”), as well as by the Belgian Corporate Governance Code 2020 (“Code 2020”). CFE has adopted the 2020 Code as its code of reference and applies its recommendations in accordance with the “comply or ex­ plain” principle. The Company’s Corporate Governance Charter and Dealing Code can be consulted on the Company’s website www.cfe.be.www. cfe.be. This Corporate Governance Statement describes the composition of the CFE’s Board of Directors and its Committees, and how they operate. It comments on the practical application of CFE’s governance rules during the fiscal year ending 31 December 2024. It also specifies the provisions of the Code 2020 the Company does not comply with and explains these derogations. It also includes the remuneration policy and the remuneration report. Lastly, it reflects the main features of the Company’s internal control and risk management systems. 2. The Board of Directors and its Committees 2.1. Board of Directors The Company has opted for a single-tier structure. Consequently, the Board of Directors is responsible for the general conduct of the Company’s business and is accountable for its management in accordance with articles 7:93 and 7:94 of the CSA. The Board of Directors determines the direction of the Company’s activities, its strategy and key policies. It examines and approves related significant operations, ensures that they are properly executed and defines any measures needed to carry out its policies. It decides on the level of risk the Company is prepared to take. In particular, the Board of Directors: • approves the general internal control and risk management system and checks that this system is correctly implemented; • takes all measures needed to ensure the integrity of the financial statements; • supervises the activities of the auditor; • reviews the performance of the CEO and the Executive Committee, and • ensures that the special committees within the Board of Directors function properly and efficiently. 2.1.1. Members of the Board of Directors as of 31 December 2024 LUC BERTRAND Capacity Non-executive director - Chairman (since February 2016) Committees Chair of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since May 2021 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1951 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Luc Bertrand obtained a commercial engineering degree from KU Leu­ ven in 1971. He started his career at Bankers Trust, where he worked as Vice-President and Regional Sales Manager, Northern Europe. He was appointed director of Ackermans & van Haaren in 1985 and was chair­ man of the Executive Committee until 2016. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ackermans & van Haaren, DEME, SIPEF and JM Finn and a director of Delen Private Bank, Bank Van Breda (until 4 May 2023) and Verdant Bioscience. Luc Bertrand has extensive expertise in corporate governance. Having served on a number of audit and risk committees, he is well versed in risk management and internal control systems. He was also a founding member of Guberna, a Belgian institute that promotes sound governance, and for many years was Chairman of its Board and then Chairman of its Board of Trustees. He is also Chairman of the Institut de Duve and Middelheim Promotors, and a member of sever­ al other boards of non-profit associations and public institutions such as the Mayer van den Bergh Museum and Europalia. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 50 PIET DEJONGHE Capacity Non-executive director Committees Member of the Audit Committee (since June 2022) Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1966 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Piet Dejonghe received, after a degree in law (KU Leuven, 1989), a post­ graduate degree in management (KU Leuven, 1990) and an MBA from INSEAD (1993). He is co-CEO of Ackermans & van Haaren. Before joining them in 1995, he was a lawyer with A§O Shearman and a consultant with BCG. As a member of the investment team of Ackermans & Van Haaren, Piet Dejonghe participates in continuous training to identify ESG risks and opportunities and stays updated on ESG regulations. Piet Dejonghe is also a member of Ackermans & Van Haaren’s ESG steering committee, where he monitors and advises on Ackermans & Van Haaren’s ESG stra­ tegic priorities and progress. KOEN JANSSEN Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1970 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Koen Janssen received, after a degree in civil engineering and elec­ tromechanics (KU Leuven, 1993), an MBA from IEFSI (France, 1994). He worked for Recticel, ING Investment Banking and ING Private Equity before joining Ackermans & van Haaren in 2001. He is a member of the Exec­ utive Committee. Koen Janssen has expertise in, among other things, offshore energy solutions, marine infrastructure, environmental projects, energy storage facilities and biogas installations. As a member of the Ackermans & Van Haaren investment team, Koen Janssen participates in continuous training courses to identify ESG risks and opportunities and stays updated on ESG regulations. AN HERREMANS Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1982 First appointment as Director June 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience An Herremans received a Master’s degree in Business Engineering from the KU Leuven and a Master’s degree in Finance from the Vlerick Business School. She has worked as Strategy Office Manager at Barco and as Senior Consultant at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. She is currently a member of the Executive Committee at Ackermans & van Haaren. As a member of the Ackermans & Van Haaren investment team, An Herre­ mans takes part in continuous training to identify ESG risks and opportu­ nities and stays updated on ESG regulations. WARAKU BV, represented by HELENE BOSTOEN (since 1 January 2024 following co-optation, previously Hélène Bostoen as an individual) Capacity Independent Director Committees Member of the Audit Committee since May 2021 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1977 First appointment as Director May 2021 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Hélène Bostoen is a management engineer (Solvay Business School, ULB, Brussels) and holds an MBA from INSEAD. She began her career at Merrill Lynch in New York. In 2005, she founded Itza Food, now Mexma Food, which produces tortillas. In 2007, she took over the management of a family group, Fenixco, active in residential real estate development in Belgium, Poland and France. She is an independent director of Home Invest Belgium and Abattoir NV and is co-chair of the UPSI-BVS profes­ sional federation’s developers’ commission. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 51 LIEVE CRETEN BV, represented by LIEVE CRETEN Capacity Independent Director Committees Chair of the Audit Committee since July 2022 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since July 2022 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1965 First appointment as Director May 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience Lieve Creten is a management engineer (KU Leuven, 1989) and also holds a Master’s degree in taxation (1989). She was a partner at Deloitte for over twenty years, where she developed the M&A practice and led the Financial Advisory practice as a Managing Partner from 2008 to 2019. She was a member of the Executive Committee of Deloitte Belgium until 2019. In addition, she was a member of Deloitte Financial Advisory’s glob­ al executive team from 2015 to 2021. Lieve Creten is currently active as an independent director in several companies and also as an independent consultant. B Global Management SRL, represented by STÉPHANE BURTON Capacity Independent Director Committees Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since June 2022 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1973 First appointment as Director June 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience Stéphane Burton received a Master in Law at the Catholic University of Leuven (1996), a Master in Social, Economic & Tax Law at Universiteit Gent (1997) and a Global Executive MBA from INSEAD (2013). He began his career as a corporate lawyer, before joining the TAT/Sabena Technics group in 2007. He held a number of different positions, becoming director of the Belgian subsidiaries in 2008 and a member of the Group Man­ agement Board in 2009. In 2014, he led a management buy-out of the Belgian subsidiaries In 2014, he led a management buy-out of the Belgian subsidiaries of the group and has since continued – as CEO - to develop the ORIZIO group, which was created by the merger of Sabena Aerospace and Sabca, now Orizio Group. He is also Vice-Chairman of Liege Airport and an independent director of SECO, Charleroi Airport and Sopartec/UCLouvain- Technology Transfer Office. Fernando Sistac Management et Conseil SAS, represented by FERNANDO SISTAC (since 26 March 2024 following co-optation, previously Fernando Sistac as an individual) Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth French, born 1959 First appointment as Director May 2023 Current term of office expires 2027 AGM Training and experience Fernando Sistac is a civil and geotechnical engineer (Polytech Lille, 1982). Until 2022, he was Managing Director of Vinci Environnement and Chief Operating Officer of Entrepose Group (Vinci). He joined the Vinci group in 2000 as CEO of CBC (Sogea Group). From 2012 to 2016, he was Deputy Managing Director of Vinci Construction France, and from 2016 to 2018, Chief Operating Officer of Vinci Construction France. He was a member of the Comex of Vinci Construction France until 2018. In view of the expiry of several directorships (including one as an independent director), it will be proposed, on the recommenda­ tion of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, at the Ordinary General Meeting of 30 April 2025, to renew for a period of four years the appointment of Luc Bertrand, Piet Dejonghe and Koen Janssen as directors and of Waraku BV, represented by Hélène Bos­ toen as an independent director. 2.1.2. Composition and diversity of the Board of Directors The composition of CFE’s Board of Directors reflects the company’s controlling shareholders. CFE is controlled by Ackermans & van Haaren SA, a Belgian company whose shares are listed on Euronext Brussels, and by VINCI Construction SAS. As at 31 December 2024, CFE’s eight-member Board of Directors includes four representatives put forward by the leading shareholder, Ackermans & van Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 52 Haaren NV, and a representative put forward by VINCI Construction SAS. This situation of control also justifies the presence on 31 December 2024 of representatives put forward by the leading shareholder, Ackermans & van Haaren NV, at the Audit Committee (one member out of three) and on the Nomination and Remuneration Com­ mittee (one member out of three). The composition of the Board of Directors is also based on a balance between experience, competence and independence, with respect for diversity, in particular the equality between men and women. The Board of Directors includes a sufficient number of in­ dependent directors to ensure that the interests of all the Company’s shareholders are respected, and one-third of its members are women, thus meeting the requirements of article 7:86 of the CSA. The balance of attendees is re-evaluated each year by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. 2.2. Role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors The duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors are detailed in the Company’s Corporate Governance Charter. The Chairman maintains close links with the Chairman of the Executive Committee and ensures, in close collaboration with the latter, that the Board of Directors, in its composition, deliberations, decision-making and implementation of decisions, operates in accordance with the provisions of the Charter, and draws up, again in close collaboration with the Chairman of the Executive Com­ mittee, the agenda for Board meetings. Generally speaking, the Chairman of the Board also ensures effective communication with all directors, creating a climate of trust that allows open discussion and constructive criticism, and with the Company’s shareholders and other stakeholders. The Chairman is also in charge of the various evaluation procedures for the Board and its Committees. 2.3. Attendance, functioning and competences of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is organised so as to ensure that decisions are taken collectively in the interests of the Company and in a way that allows work to be carried out efficiently. The Board of Directors meets at least five times a year, at times set at the beginning of the year, and whenever the Company’s in­ terests so require. The Board of Directors met on six occasions in 2024. The attendance rate for Board meetings in 2024 is shown below: Name Capacity Attendance rate Luc Bertrand Non-executive director, Chairman 6/6 Piet Dejonghe Non-executive director 6/6 Koen Janssen Non-executive director 6/6 An Herremans Non-executive director 6/6 Waraku BV, represented by Hélène Bostoen Independent Director 5/6 Lieve Creten BV, represented by Lieve Creten Independent Director 5/6 B Global Management SRL, represented by Stéphane Burton Independent Director 6/6 Fernando Sistac Non-executive director until 26 March 2024 2/2 Fernando Sistac Management& Conseil SAS, represented by Fernando Sistac Non-executive director since 26 March 2024 (following co-optation) 4/4 In addition to defining corporate strategy and culture and supervising the work of the Committees, the Board of Directors approves the statutory and consolidated financial statements and the management report, decides on the appropriation of profits and the publication of financial and non-financial information. Specific decisions taken by the Board of Directors in 2024 mainly concerned: • approval the financial statements for 2023 as well as the financial statements for the first half of 2024; • examination of the 2024 budget updates; • examination of the 2025 budget; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Table 15: OPEX eligibility and alignment Financial year N 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') Economic Activities (1) Code (2) OpEx (3) Proportion of OpEx, year N (4) Climate Change Mitigation (5) Climate Change Adaptation (6) Water (7) Pollution (8) Circular Econo­ my (9) Biodiversity (10) Climate Change Mitigation (11) Climate Change Adaptation (12) Water (13) Pollution (14) Circular Economy (15) Biodiversity (16) Minimum Safe­ guards (17) Proportion of Tax­ onomy-aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) OpEx, year N-1 (18) Category ena­ bling activity (19) Category transi­ tional activity (20) eur % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 0,00 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Of which enabling 0,00 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Of which transitional 0,00 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL Y/N** OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 0,00 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% A. OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 0,00 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 2.761.658,00 100,00% Total 2.761.658,00 100,00% Table 16: OPEX eligibility and alignment by objective Proportion of OpEx / Total OpEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective Taxonomy-eligible per objective CCM 0,00% 0,00% CCA 0,00% 0,00% WTR 0,00% 0,00% CE 0,00% 0,00% PPC 0,00% 0,00% BIO 0,00% 0,00% Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 96 2.1.8. Statement concerning activities involving the use of nuclear or fossil fuels In 2024, CFE did not carry out any activities related to the use of nuclear energy or fossil fuels 2024. Table 17 : Nuclear and fossil fuel activities Row Nuclear energy related activities YES / NO 1 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. NO 2 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to pro­ duce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen pro­ duction, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. NO 3 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nu­ clear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. NO Fossil gas related activities 4 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that pro­ duce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 5 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 6 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 2.2. ESRS E1 : Climate change Reducing GHG emissions and combating climate change are important objectives for the international community. The Paris Agreement’s 1.5°C target states that global emissions must be substantially reduced by 2030 and become zero by 2050. In Europe, this ambition is supported by the European Green Deal. Reducing GHG emissions, both in intensity and in absolute terms, has been and remains a priority for CFE. CFE is committed to im­ plementing action plans to reduce these GHGs. Since 2020, specific action plans have been put in place to limit the Group’s direct emissions (scope 1 and 2). This applies in particu­ lar to mobility management and energy management at sites and headquarters. Since 2020, CFE has been screening its indirect emissions (scope 3) to identify the main sources of emissions and prioritise action plans to target these main sources. A more detailed GHG Protocol analysis of indirect emissions was carried out in 2024, confirming the actions taken since 2020. Implementing action plans to achieve our environmental ambitions is a collective responsibility. Every player, from the workers on construction sites to sustainability officers, project developers, design and methods departments and QHSE teams, plays a crucial role. Nevertheless, management has a major responsibility to ensure that action plans are implemented in their Business Units. To underline the importance of these ESG objectives, the achievement of environmental targets is integrated into their variable remu­ neration, including short- and long-term bonuses. Further details are available in the Remuneration report. ESRS E1 GOV-3 13 2.2.1. SBM3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model The construction sector has a significant impact on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Construction activities consume large quan­ tities of energy, mainly from fossil fuels, to produce materials such as cement, steel and glass. These materials are responsible for significant CO2 emissions during their manufacture. Construction sites also generate direct emissions through the use of machinery and vehicles. The buildings themselves, once constructed, continue to contribute to GHG emissions through their energy consump­ tion for heating, cooling and lighting. Finally, construction and demolition waste management adds another layer of emissions, in­ creasing the sector’s overall carbon footprint. The ESRS theme of “climate change mitigation” is material for CFE and its various subsidiaries, as GHG emissions can have a signif­ icant impact on the group’s future results, mainly due to the financial impact of future carbon taxes. Business models still need to evolve, but face the following challenges: availability and scaling-up of new technologies, supply chains unable to support this scal­ ing-up, and customers’ willingness and ability to accept these additional costs. Climate change mitigation is therefore a priority issue for the CFE group. ESRS E1 SBM-3 18 CFE’s activities, which include the construction of residential and non-residential buildings, do not make a substantial and direct contribution to climate change adaptation. These types of projects focus primarily on creating infrastructure to meet society’s needs in terms of work, housing and education. While these buildings may incorporate elements of sustainability, such as energy efficiency and the use of eco-friendly materials, they are not specifically designed to substantially mitigate the impacts of climate Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 97 change on the community, such as extreme weather events or rising sea levels. Consequently, although these projects are essential for urban and social development, their direct contribution to climate change adaptation remains limited. As CFE does not actually hold any real estate in its portfolio, there is no real financial risk associated with climate change adaptation. The absence of these assets means that CFE is not directly exposed to the potential costs associated with upgrading or protecting infrastructure against climate impacts. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19c Although climate change mitigation is a material issue for CFE, involving the reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions as well as its en­ ergy consumption, the theme of energy transition is not considered a material subject. This is because Scope 3 emissions, including embodied and operational carbon, are significantly higher than direct emissions. In other words, indirect emissions linked to the materials used and building operations account for a much larger share of CFE’s total carbon footprint, so the leverage effect of this energy transition is much less relevant than managing Scope 3 emissions. For this reason, CFE will not report on ESRS E1-5. The assessment of impacts, risks and opportunities linked to climate change has been carried out taking into account the Group’s different business lines, as each segment may present specific IROs. A consolidation exercise was then carried out as described in chapter 1.5 of the DMA. This analysis was carried out taking into account different time horizons (current, short-term, medium-term and long-term). On the other hand, the anticipated financial effects of IROs have been omitted by applying the phase-in principle. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 a, b , ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR7b Although climate change is material for CFE, it does not constitute a risk requiring immediate and radical adaptation of the group’s business model. Indeed, the current model is already in line with the strategy, which focuses on designing and developing sustaina­ ble buildings, intelligent industry and infrastructure for green energy and mobility. Rather, it’s a transition to increased activity of this kind in the future, and both the teams and the company are ready for it. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 c, ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR 8b 2.2.2. E1.IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities CFE has assessed the list of ESRS themes in its DMA, including ESRS E1 climate change, ESRS E2 pollution, ESRS E3 water and marine re­ sources, ESRS E4 biodiversity and ecosystems, and ESRS E5 resource use and circular economy. On the basis of the DMA carried out, only ESRS E1 climate change is identified as a risk with a high materiality of impact and financial impact. The process of identifying impacts, risks and opportunities is described in more detail in section 1.4.3 relating to DMA in Sustainability Statements. As stipulated in the ESRS, the DMA exercise covers the entire value chain and is assessed over different time horizons. ESRS E1.IRO-1 20 a,b,c, AR 9 et AR12a The main risks, opportunities and impacts are transition risks. These are detailed in chapter 1.5.2. For climate risks, the phasing-in of provisions for the year ending 31 December 2024 have been used. CFE has developed a method­ ology for assessing climate risks and opportunities. This assessment will cover both physical and transitional risks in its own opera­ tions, as well as along the upstream and downstream value chain (including detailed scenario suggestions and time horizons to be covered in short-, medium- and long-term scenario analysis). Phase in requirements for ESRS ­E1.IRO-1, ­AR 11 a, b, c & d, 21, AR 12 a, b, c & d, 21 et AR 15 An initial analysis indicates that no major physical risks have been identified in connection with the Group’s activities. This analysis confirms the DMA results. The assessment will therefore focus on transition risks. The results of this assessment could have an impact on the DMA exercise carried out. 2.2.3. E1-2 Climate change mitigation policies CFE has drafted a policy entitled “Climate Change Policy”. It does not cover climate change adaptation, as this theme has not been deemed material. ESRS E1-2 24, 25 This policy applies to all the Group’s activities and is addressed to all Group employees. It was drafted by the Group’s CSO and ap­ proved by the Executive Committee and Board of Directors. It is available to employees via the Group intranet. With this policy, CFE undertakes not only to monitor its GHG emissions, but also to implement the actions necessary to achieve its ambitions in terms of reducing these emissions. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 98 To ensure the quality and completeness of the data monitored, this policy is accompanied by a specific manual on data definition and collection methods. Data is collected by the Business Units and consolidated by the central teams in accordance with GHG protocol methods. This policy also addresses the roles and responsibilities of the various Business Units in drawing up local action plans. It is also based on standards and certifications specific to the various businesses (ISO, CO2 performance scale, etc.). CFE revised its decarbonisation objectives in 2024 and now aims to reduce its direct emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 40% by 2030 com­ pared with 2020 emissions. Indirect emissions (scope 3) need to be reduced by 20% by 2030, compared with the values measured in 2024. ESRS E1-2 24 The path to decarbonisation is a complex one, as the construction sector has a long, fragmented and interdependent value chain. Rather than setting bold ambitions without concrete actions, CFE believes in annual progress based on operational excellence, available technologies and innovation efforts. The growth in turnover and CAPEX in line with the EU’s taxonomy is further proof of this commitment. There is clearly still a need to improve data collection, establish comparable baselines for the sector as a whole, and verify the fea­ sibility and availability of technologies that can act as levers for decarbonisation. As a result, the 2050 transition plan is still under development. This takes into account the evolution of current technological limitations, insufficient sector innovation, and the overall lack of visibility on the commitments of the rest of the sector. Furthermore, Scope 3 emissions were only calculated this year, and still have their limitations, as already highlighted above. On the other hand, a GHG reduction plan for 2030 has been put in place, demonstrating our decarbonisation efforts. This plan is based on the SBTi framework. Although not yet formally validated, CFE will adhere to the SBTi framework as soon as possible. ESRS E1-1 16a 2.2.4. E1-1, E1-3 et E1-4: Transition plans, decarbonisation levers, targets and resources in relation to cli­ mate change policies To remain in touch with the field and market while guaranteeing a global and integrated strategic approach despite its decentral­ ised business model, CFE has put in place clear ESG governance. The overall strategy, long-term vision and target setting is the responsibility of CFE’s Executive Committee. In particular, this means that the Group’s overall GHG emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2050 and the related transition plans (in line with the CSRD) are the responsibility of the Executive Committee. On the other hand, each Business Unit develops its own specific reduction action plans, taking into account its own business and oper­ ating model. The relevance of these plans and the possibility of carrying out collective actions are assessed at Sustainability Boards. As climate change and the negative impact of GHG emissions have been identified as material issues at Group level, these aspects are included in the annual ESG review at Board level. Changes in indicators and targets are also presented annually to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. ESRS E1-1, 16 h & i In 2024, 100% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030. For 2050, no commitment has been made for the reasons explained in section 2.2.3. Consequently, no Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are currently covered by a transition plan for this horizon. This plan is currently under development. 100% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030 (short-term). These targets are aligned with SBTi and therefore compatible with the Paris agreements to limit global warming to 1.5°C in terms of reduction ambition, although they have not yet been formally validated by SBTi. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a For Scope 3 GHG emissions, the most significant emission categories were mapped in 2024. Emissions representing less than 1% of the total are considered non-material and will not be reported. A consultant carried out an audit to verify that no material aspect of the scope 3 emissions calculation had been overlooked, and that the calculation methodology was indeed correct. The data collected in 2024 is considered a reference value for setting the basis for reduction efforts in 2030. Scope 3 emissions come mainly from the emissions category purchases of goods and services, and are based on expenditure data for the materials with the high­ est emissions for the business sector (concrete, steel, special techniques, façade elements). This calculation method will be subject to subsequent adjustments to improve accuracy. Where relevant to the company, more granular data will be collected based on activity data, to refine calculations and provide better information on actions to be taken. This will be an ongoing process for years to come. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 99 Scope 3 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030. Although these targets are compatible with the reduction ambitions of the Paris agreements, they are not formally validated by the SBTi. These targets will be determined according to the emission inten­ sity of the various materials. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a,g Table 18 : Percentage of GHG emissions covered by a reduction target and/or plan Datapoints 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 Percentage of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 100% ESRS E1-1 16 a GHG emissions for scope 3 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 0% ESRS E1-1 16 a 2.2.4.1 Transition plan, objectives and progress Direct emissions: Scope 1 and 2 As of 2021, CFE is committed to reducing its GHG emissions intensity by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. In 2024, CFE reviewed its objectives by committing to reduce its absolute GHG emissions by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. This target is com­ patible with the Paris Agreements and is in line with the SBTi (but has not been officially validated by the SBTi). ESRS E1-4 33 Scope 1 and 2 emissions mainly concern production activities, i.e. Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics. It is therefore in these activities that actions aimed at limiting GHG emissions are mainly deployed. On the other hand, efforts relating to the fleet (company cars) concern all the Group’s activities. ESRS E1-4 34b Lever 1 - Mobility and logistics The first lever activated concerns mobility. As far as company cars are concerned, a mobility plan that benefits workers has been rolled out across the Group to encourage the adoption of alternative modes of transport such as cycling or public transport. Electric cars are widely encouraged. To facilitate adoption, charging stations are installed at most of the Group’s worksites. The fill rate of the vans as well as their routes are being optimised, and tests are being carried out with hybrid and electric vans. Finally, trucks and other heavy construction equipment are gradually being replaced by less polluting vehicles. Mobility-related actions alone repre­ sent a potential 28% reduction in total GHG scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030. Lever 2 - Site energy consumption A second tool for limiting GHG production is to reduce energy consumption for site installations. On site, we monitor energy con­ sumption and can now optimise consumption by tracking down abnormal over-consumption in particular. Understanding of this consumption is supported by improvements in the insulation of the building site containers, as well as various corrective measures. Solar panels are also installed on many construction sites. The positioning of the site installations therefore also takes into account the optimisation of sunlight for the site cabins. In general, the use of green electricity is recommended on construction sites when­ ever possible. The reduction potential of these actions is of the order of 15% by 2030. Particular attention is paid to generators used for site start-up or as occasional back-up for winter heating needs. These generators consume large amounts of energy. Pilot studies are being carried out with batteries or hydrogen generators. The reduction potential has not yet been assessed, as current technologies are not yet efficient. Lever 3 - Office energy consumption For existing head offices where CFE owns the premises, energy audits have been carried out as well as renovations to keep energy consumption to a minimum. Solar panels and energy management systems have also been installed. Finally, BPC, BPI Real Estate, CLE, Van Laere, VMA and CFE’s head office have moved into new buildings designed and built by the group’s entities, all of which are very low-energy buildings. CFE’s new Wood Hub headquarters is particularly exemplary in terms of energy consumption. The building is heated and cooled by geothermal energy and heat pumps, and is equipped with 300 solar panels. This makes Wood Hub almost energy independent, with primary energy consumption of no more than 8.59 kWh per m2. Compared with the current aver­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 100 age of 180 kWh/m2/year for office buildings, Wood Hub stands out as an exceptional NZEB (Nearly Zero Energy Building), designed for the future. The reduction potential of these actions is fairly limited (less than 1%), as total energy consumption in offices is very low compared with construction sites. Nevertheless, these actions are necessary to be consistent with other actions and to establish a real corporate culture around the challenges of climate change. Although we have taken advantage of most of the levers for reducing GHG emissions from scopes 1 and 2, CFE continues to seek further optimisation of its energy consumption. The company regularly tests new pilot projects on its worksites, and closely monitors technological advances and innovations in this field. Particular attention is paid to construction site generators, for which current technology unfortunately does not yet meet market expectations. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j, ESRS E1-4 34f, 16b To ensure that these various measures are followed up, and that worksites choose the solutions best suited to their situation, CFE has compiled all solutions that bring good results in a handbook called the ‘Greenbook’. By 2024, CFE has already achieved an absolute reduction of 25% in total scope 1 and 2 compared with the 2020 reference values. The expected results for 2024 were to achieve a 16% reduction on 2020 values. These excellent results are due in particular to the rapid adoption of on-site energy optimisation methods and an effective fleet greening policy. ESRS E1-3 29 b Table 19 : Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by source Scope 1 and 2 results of actions taken Unit 2020 Reference 2023 N-1 2024 N Improvement on N-1 Improvement on reference year Scope 1 tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,974.47 11,235.58 -20% -29% Fleet tCO2eq 11,713.19 9,821.61 8,329.56 -15% -29% Fuel tCO2eq 3,319.34 3,078.64 1,966.17 -36% -41% Gas tCO2eq 779.64 992.62 899.72 -9% 15% Refrigerants tCO2eq 0.00 81.60 40.13 -51% Scope 2 tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,412.11 1,954.99 38% 4% Electricity tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,342.15 1,742.15 30% -7% Electricity for the fleet tCO2eq 0.00 69,96* 212.84 204% Total scope 1 and 2 tCO2eq 17,684.17 15,386.58 13,190.57 -14% -25% *In the previous year’s report (2023), GHG emissions linked to electric vehicle charging were erroneously calculated in scope 1 instead of scope 2, which explains the minimal deviation in scope 1 and 2 values for 2023 (67.69 tCO2eq). However, total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2023 remain unchanged ESRS E1-3 29 b, ESRS E1-4 34 a,b Indirect emissions: Scope 3 In 2024, CFE carried out a complete analysis of its indirect emissions according to the GHG Protocol. This analysis highlighted the material categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions, which are “purchases of goods and services”, which accounts for 92% of emissions, “use of products sold”, which accounts for 7% of emissions, and to a lesser extent “goods and equipment”, which accounts for 1% of emissions. In the “purchases of goods and services” category, this analysis shows that a small category of materials is responsible for the majority of these emissions. These include concrete, steel, façade elements and, to a lesser extent, technical building instal­ lations such as HVAC, piping, cabling, etc. Taking into account this analysis, as well as current technologies, information and con­ struction methods, CFE has defined its objectives for 2030. CFE has carried out an in-depth study of the stated objectives of its value chain, in particular those of suppliers of materials with a high impact on GHG emissions. Based on this information, CFE has set itself the target of reducing its Scope 3 emissions by 20% by 2030, based on 2024 values. A detailed reduction plan has yet to be drawn up, requiring a more granular analysis of the data. Specific targets for the “use of products sold” category will also be defined from 2025. The 20% reduction target applies to the entire CFE group. ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-4 33, ESRS E1-4 34b As 2024 is the reference year, so far there are no measurable results from the actions undertaken. ESRS E1-3 29 b Lever 1 - Sustainable suppliers and materials The main lever for reducing scope 3 GHGs is therefore the commitment of suppliers who themselves have targets and reduction plans in line with the Paris agreements. Alongside this lever, CFE also wants to take a pro-active approach. As a developer, BPI Real Estate is committed to developing sustainable projects and limiting both the level of embodied carbon and Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 110 The various BU management committees are also in regular dialogue with their employees via monthly Works Councils and Work­ place Prevention and Protection Committees (CPPT). Each BU must also draw up a strategic plan that includes the issue of safety. These plans are validated by the Group’s various gov­ erning bodies. Specific safety KPIs are also presented to the Audit Committee at least once a year. Finally, to draw inspiration from best practices in the sector, CFE is represented on the ADEB-VBA Safety Board, which meets quarterly. ESRS S1-1 20b, ESRS S1-2 25, 26, 27 3.1.5. S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns CFE encourages open dialogue and transparency regarding ethical concerns and potential violations of the “Code of Conduct”, including all health and safety concerns. Workers are encouraged to report any suspected violations, starting with the usual reporting channels including, but not limited to, reporting to their team leader, manager, any other responsible person, the HR Department and the Group Compliance Department. Reports can be made in any language and are confidential. All reports will be promptly and thoroughly investigated, and appro­ priate corrective action will be taken as necessary. As an alternative, workers may also report ethical concerns or violations of this Code of Conduct through CFE’s Whistleblowing Tool. A simplified procedure (infographic) has been communicated to all workers. Use of the CFE alert tool is also part of the training cycle. ESRS S1-3 31, 32 The Group’s various subsidiaries also have a digital tool for encoding safety remarks and suggestions. These remarks and sugges­ tions are then included in a listing until the remark is removed or corrected. All workers have access to this tool. During site visits by management or prevention advisors, their comments are also incorporated into this digital tool. ESRS S1-3 32 Other project stakeholders are also invited to comment on safety issues. These comments will be included in the site list and dealt with. A 24-hour hotline is also available to external project stakeholders. ESRS S1-3 32 e At the monthly meetings of the CPPT and the CE, more general comments concerning health and safety are discussed and recorded. The NOSAQ survey carried out proved the commitment and confidence of CFE workers in their approach to health and safety. The very positive results of the eNPS surveys point in the same direction. Finally, regular, mandatory safety training ensures that health and safety messages are heard and understood by all workers. ESRS S1-3 33 3.1.6. S1-4 Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to managing materi­ al risks 3.1.6.1 Preparation and supervision Safety is a real and present risk on all construction projects. As a responsible company, CFE already has long-standing expertise in monitoring safety on its projects. All BUs benefit from the experience of seasoned prevention consultants, who provide support for projects in progress as well as those in the pipeline. They also monitor projects and ensure that any comments are followed up. All projects currently underway have the material and personnel resources needed to ensure safe working areas. A project-specific risk analysis also enables us to define the best execution methods for the project in question. In accordance with current legislation, each project is insured during the construction period and the ten-year warranty period. 3.1.6.2 Proactive approach and safety culture CFE doesn’t want to settle for minimum safety standards. A survey on safety perception and safety culture (NOSAQ) identified areas for improvement. Following this survey, a communication campaign and specific training courses were launched to reinforce the Group’s safety culture and encourage a proactive approach. 3.1.6.3 Using data for continuous improvement CFE monitors the impact of its actions via its safety dashboard, which includes the number of incidents and accidents (with or with­ out disability), as well as proactive actions such as management visits and toolbox meetings. A new NOSAQ survey will be carried out after the specific action plan has been in place for one year, to measure its effects. A target for improving the frequency rate has been set for 2030. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 111 Secondly, CFE insists on sharing experience and best practices, as well as analysing all incidents, in order to drive all BUs to the top. ESRS S1-4 36, 37, 38, 39, 42 3.1.6.4 Taking coactivity into account On its construction projects, CFE has numerous co-activities with subcontractors or third parties. It is therefore essential that the same vigilance and respect for the rules be applied in the same way to our own workforce as to other project participants. For this reason, the number of accidents involving subcontractors is also monitored. This point is covered in more detail in the next chapter. 3.1.6.5 Financial impact of actions taken The actions undertaken consist mainly of management (local prevention advisers in the Business Units and head of safety), training and communication, and specific resources to ensure day-to-day safety on site. For this last point, an evaluation of costs is always carried out during the project submission phase and is then incorporated into the commercial offer submitted to the customer. All safety-related costs (direct and indirect) are included in “operating costs” as presented in the Financial Report on page 162. To date, the granularity of financial information is not yet sufficient to provide reliable quantitative values. Further details will be provid­ ed from 2025 onwards. ESRS S1-4 43 3.1.7. S1-5 Objectives In its health and safety policy, CFE is committed to zero accidents. Its communication campaign is called GO FOR ZERO. This objec­ tive applies not only to all CFE workers, but also to anyone else working on our sites. Nevertheless, with this ambition in mind, CFE has decided to set ambitious but realistic targets for 2030. CFE has therefore set itself the target of achieving a maximum severity rate of 0.52 by 2030. This objective has been defined with the aim of halving average sector values (source: Fedris). Internal annual targets were therefore set using a linear regression starting from the reference value, the 2021 frequency rate, which was 0.69. The severity rate target (= number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of hours worked) concerns only acci­ dents involving the CFE group’s own workforce. The ambition was set on the basis of sector results for 2021 (source Fedris.be), with the aim of being at least twice as good as the sector (and therefore having a severity rate equivalent to half the sector severity rate). ESRS S1-5 46 The ambition level and quantitative target for the severity rate were decided by the Executive Committee after validation of this proposal by the Safety Board. ESRS S1-5 47 Safety dashboards constantly show whether or not the annual targets set for each BU are being met. In addition to these external objectives, internal targets are also monitored. Proactive objectives are favoured, such as tracking inci­ dents and near-misses, the number of toolbox meetings held, and the number of visits made by management. All BU management committees have permanent access to these dashboards. ESRS S1-5 47 3.1.8. S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s workforce The table in this section gives an overview of the workforce at the end of the reference period, 31 December 2024. The table only includes workers considered as own employees and not yet non-salaried employees included in own staff (in accordance with the phasing-in provision). The figures published only include CFE and its BUs, and do not include data from the Investments and Holdings segment, which are outside the scope of reporting. ESRS S1-6 49,ESRS S1-6 50 dii Table 26 : Number of employees by type of contract Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 112 Number of employees by type of contract Open-ended contract Fixed-term con­ tract Zero-hours con­ tract Total 2022 2,937 137 0 3,074 2023 2,822 168 0 2,990 2024 2,712 142 0 2,854 Among the 142 workers on fixed-term contracts, 7 are on work-study contracts. Table 27 : Number of employees by type Number of women and men Total #Women %Women #Men %Men 2022 3,074 487 15.8% 2,587 84.2% 2023 2,990 487 16.3% 2,503 83.7% 2024 2,854 476 16.7% 2,378 83.3% ESRS S1-6 50 a,b CFE has a total of 2,854 workers. Of these, 2,282 are based in Belgium, 210 in Luxembourg and 359 in Poland. ESRS S1-6 51 Figures are given by headcount and not by FTE. Information on workers and their contracts comes from the social secretariats. This data is consolidated in a single HR management dashboard. In Belgium, the various Group entities have a single social secretariat for all 2,282 employees, which guarantees the reliability and robustness of the data. In Luxembourg and Poland, there is also a social secretariat for each country. Non-employees, on the other hand, are not taken into account. It’s not material. Nevertheless, reporting systems will be further de­ veloped and enhanced in the future to provide greater granularity. ESRS S1-6 50 di At the end of December 2024, the Group’s staff turnover (by headcount) for the year was 13.10%. This corresponds to 374 leavers. ESRS S1-6 50 c All the above-mentioned HR indicators have remained relatively stable over the past 3 years. ESRS S1-6 50 e 3.1.9. S1-11 Social protection In accordance with current European and local legislation, all CFE group workers benefit from social protection in the event of illness or accident on site or on the way to or from work. ESRS S1-11 3.1.10. S1-13 Training and skills development Training and skills development are offered through training plans, coaching, career plans, and so on. These plans focus on both non-technical and technical skills, to facilitate the maintenance of skilled employment. At the end of 2022, CFE launched its “CFE academy”. It is an online training platform that allows each employee to find customised training courses, both in terms of content and format. The digital approach (while keeping the option of attending face-to-face training) allows for greater flexibility for employees to train when it suits them best. Specific health and safety training sessions are organised, for example, when employees are hired, when they arrive on site, at monthly toolbox meetings and during dedicated “safety days”. The number of training hours within CFE and its BUs is monitored through the CFE Academy program. This data is measured as a total and by gender. However, it is not listed by worker category. This data will not be published until next year, in the 2025 report. Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 b A new programme to digitise the performance appraisal process will make it possible to measure the percentage of workers who have taken part in the appraisal. It will be deployed in 2025. This data will therefore not be published until the next report 2025. Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 a, 84, 85 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 113 3.1.11. S1-14 Health and safety metrics Since safety is a major concern, CFE has developed QHSE dashboards to keep close track of the trend in the figures and to take the necessary remedial action as soon as possible. The severity rate (one of the traditional security indicators) was chosen to be one of the KPI’s governing our sustainability linked loans with the banks. The dashboards, which contain the main information for each subsidiary, are updated at least once a month to keep track of the safety data. They include traditional safety information (frequency and severity rates etc.) but also indicators of proactive safety actions (toolbox meetings, management involvement, taking into account incidents and feedback, etc.). This data covers 100% of the Group’s own workers. This does not include self-employed workers, temporary staff or subcontractors. The monitoring of this data follows the rules prescribed by ISO 9001 and the Belgian legal definitions for safety indicators: • Frequency rate = number of lost-time accidents x 1 million divided by the number of working hours. • Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of working hours. • A lost-time accident is an accident in the workplace resulting in at least one day’s incapacity, not including the day of the acci­ dent. • An accident without incapacity is an accident that does not result in incapacity for work beyond the day of the accident. • A first aid accident is an accident requiring only first aid on the spot. These are not included in this report. • Recordable incidents are the sum of lost-time accidents and accidents without incapacity (excluding first-aid). • The frequency rate is calculated as follows: number of lost-time accidents x 1,000,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The severity rate is calculated as follows: Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The recordable incident rate is calculated as follows: number of recordable incidents x 1,000,000 divided by number of hours worked. ESRS S1-14 87 Table 28: Data on accidents involving our own workforce 2022 2023 2024 % of workers included in the health and safety risk management 100 100 100 Number of work-related fatalities (own workforce) 0 0 0 Number of work-related fatalities (subcontractor or third party) 1 1 0 Number of recordable accidents (excluding first aid) 145 139 115 Number of lost-time accidents 93 77 64 Frequency rate 21.96 18.47 15.34 Severity rate 0.72 0.68 0.56 Recordable accident rate NC NC 27.55 Number of cases of illness directly linked to work 0 0 0 Number of days lost due to an accident at work 3,050 2,847 2,321 The number of accidents reported and the number of days lost correspond to data recorded and validated by insurers for Belgium and Luxembourg. In Poland, on the other hand, accidents and their consequences are recorded in national records. This information is therefore robust, complete and reliable. ESRS S1-14 88 The safety of subcontractors is also taken into account in a specific dashboard (see chapter 3.2.7). 3.1.11.1 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts No offences or complaints of discrimination or failure to respect human rights were recorded in 2024. No fines have been reapplied either. ESRS S1-17 3.2. ESRS S2: Workers in the value chain This analysis focuses specifically on subcontractors rather than the entire value chain of a construction project. The main reason is that the value chain in this sector is often very long and fragmented, involving many different players with varying roles. Further­ more, there is not always direct contact with the lower links in this chain, which makes it difficult to assess all the potential risks and impacts in a comprehensive and accurate way. By focusing on subcontractors, who are key partners and directly involved in site operations, it is possible to implement more targeted and effective safety measures, ensuring better management of material risks and a significant improvement in working conditions. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 114 3.2.1. SBM2 Interests and views of stakeholders Collaboration and dialogue with subcontractors are essential elements of CFE’s group strategy. We consider them as important as our own workforce. By fostering open, ongoing communication, we ensure that subcontractors are fully integrated into our process­ es and share our safety and quality objectives. This collaborative approach strengthens relationships based on trust, improves co­ ordination on construction sites and ensures that everyone works together harmoniously and efficiently. By valuing the contributions of subcontractors and treating them as key partners, we create a safer, more productive working environment for all. ESRS 2 SBM-2 3.2.2. SBM3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model The DMA exercise (chap 1.5.1) has demonstrated that health and safety are material sub-themes for CFE and its subcontractors. In particular, there is a significant risk of negative impact, as accidents can occur on site, leading to serious incapacity, permanent after-effects and even death. The heart of CFE’s business happens on the construction sites. The work is carried out by CFE’s own workers or by subcontractors. At present, there’s no way of carrying out these projects without manpower. Every effort must therefore be made to limit these risks. CFE considers that it is just as important to fight to limit safety risks on site for its own workforce as for subcontractors, since every human being deserves to be treated equally in the face of danger. The analysis carried out in chapter 3.1.2 therefore also covers the entire value chain. ESRS S2-SBM-3 11 a,c 3.2.3. S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers CFE has adopted a series of policies that apply both to its own workforce and to the various parties involved on site. These include the Human Rights Policy and the QHSE Policy. These documents are described in detail in chapter 3.1.3. A Code of Conduct for commercial partners has also been drawn up. It includes an obligation to comply with the internal Code of Conduct, and in particular to respect the safety rules set out in the QHSE policy. The obligation to comply with local and European laws and regulations, as well as with the aforementioned policies, are an integral part of the contractual clauses for sub-contractors. ESRS S2-16, 17, 18, 19 3.2.4. S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts Ongoing dialogue with the various parties involved on our worksites is a priority, and this primarily concerns safety. The onboarding of all subcontractors is formalised by means of a short training session introducing the site, the contact persons and the specific rules relating to the project. It is vital to ensure that everyone can identify the various stakeholders involved, and knows who to contact in the event of any problems. The site manager will ensure that all this information is understood by providing training in a language that the workers understand. Each team should have a manager who speaks one of the project’s national languages, to ensure that he or she can communicate with the site management teams at all times. Formal meetings are held at least once a week with subcontractors working on the site. To ensure that these meetings run smoothly, team leaders from the various subcontractors represent their companies. These meetings are followed by a clear report setting out the actions to be taken by the various parties involved, an update on the schedule and an overview of the phases to come. A LEAN and collaborative approach is adopted on all projects. Engagement with the value chain on worksites on safety issues, using a LEAN approach, is essential to ensure a safe and efficient working environment. Secondly, value chain mapping enables us to analyse each stage of the construction process, from design to delivery, and detect critical points where safety incidents may occur. A culture of safety must be established, with visible leadership where managers set the example by respecting and valuing safety practices and open communication. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation of safety performance, through key indicators and regular site visits, ensures compliance with standards and identifies areas for improvement. By integrating these LEAN principles into worksite safety management, it is possible to create a safer, more efficient and more col­ laborative working environment. The key lies in the commitment of all players in the value chain and in a culture of continuous im­ provement. Penalties are foreseen and communicated for any worker who does not respect the safety rules in force on projects. ESRS S2-2 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 115 3.2.5. S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns To remedy negative impacts on sites, it is essential to put in place a structured process and effective communication channels. This process begins with the identification and assessment of potential impacts. This includes carrying out risk analyses to identify potential hazards and assess their severity and probability. At the start of site activities, each subcontractor is required to share this specific risk analysis with the site management team, in order to analyse the resources to be implemented and responsibilities to­ gether. Once the impacts have been identified, preventive and/or corrective measures must be implemented. This can include modifying work procedures, improving safety equipment, or training workers to better manage identified risks. It is crucial to document these measures and ensure that they are clearly communicated to all team members. To enable workers in the value chain to voice their concerns, several communication channels need to be established: Onboarding new workers: This onboarding provides information and training for new workers on a project. In particular, the organi­ sational chart of site management and their contact details are provided to facilitate future exchanges. Regular meetings: Weekly safety meetings are organised on projects where workers can discuss safety issues and propose solu­ tions. Direct communication lines: Subcontractors are encouraged to communicate any concerns or comments directly with site teams as a matter of priority. Mobile applications: On most worksites, a mobile app enables workers to report incidents or concerns quickly and easily. Security representatives: The site’s QHSE manager, along with the entire site management team, makes regular visits to the site, enabling direct interaction with all those involved. It’s also important to create a safety culture where workers feel comfortable reporting problems without fear of reprisal. This is en­ couraged by visible, committed leadership that values and respects workers’ contributions to safety. Finally, it is essential to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the measures put in place, by tracking safety indicators. ESRS S2-3 27, 28 3.2.6. S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions Each project is unique and requires a specific risk analysis. This exercise must be carried out both by the project management team and by subcontractors. This analysis must be carried out before work begins, to enable a dialogue with the project’s management teams and to validate the most suitable working methods for limiting risks together. Scheduling will also be defined in such a way as to keep co-activities between workers to a minimum. Weekly site meetings allow us to see whether or not we need to adapt or correct the chosen work methods. Everyone involved in a project is jointly responsible for their own safety and that of others. On the other hand, subcontracting agree­ ments specify in detail the roles and responsibilities of all parties involved. Among other things, it defines who is responsible for the breakdown and maintenance of collective protection equipment. Each subcontractor is responsible for his or her own personal protective equipment. On the other hand, the site management team will ensure that each employee uses the equipment correctly. The site management team will ensure that a responsible, collaborative and respectful site culture is in place. This working atmos­ phere facilitates communication and a genuine safety culture. Regular checks are carried out on site by the BU’s QHSE manager and by management teams. These visits enable us to identify safety shortcomings and correct them as quickly as possible. These visits are always accompanied by a visit report to ensure that every remark has been addressed. Control also involves regular monitoring and communication of safety indicators. A specific monthly dashboard also includes the number of incidents and accidents involving subcontractors. The management team will also ensure that subcontracting teams receive the necessary training. In the event of failure to comply with the established rules, penalties are applied. In the event of serious misconduct, the person responsible will be asked to leave the site with immediate effect and will not be allowed to return. CFE also monitors the company’s track record in terms of safety compliance and safety culture, and takes this into account when selecting subcontractors. CFE is not aware of any serious human rights problems or incidents linked to the upstream or downstream value chain (other than the site accidents listed in the following chapter). Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
Annual report 2024 - CFE 27 Management report Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS I. Statutory financial statements 29 1. Equity and main shareholders 29 2. Notes to the statutory financial statements 29 2.1. Financial position at 31/12/2024 29 2.2. Appropriation of profit 30 2.3. Outlook 2025 30 2.4. Main risks and uncertainties 30 2.5. Major events after the closing of the financial year 30 2.6. Financial instruments 30 2.7. Notices 30 II. Consolidated financial statements 32 1. Comments on the consolidated financial statements 32 1.1. Financial position at 31/12/2024 32 1.2. Main risks 38 1.3. Major events after the close of the financial year 47 1.4. Research and development 47 1.5. Financial instruments 47 1.6. Outlook 2025 47 III. Corporate governance statement 49 1. Reference code 49 2. The Board of Directors and its Committees 49 2.1. Board of Directors 49 2.2. Role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors 52 2.3. Attendance, functioning and competences of the Board of Directors 52 3. Executive Board Committees 53 3.1. The Audit Committee 53 3.2. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 54 4. The Executive Committee 54 5. Diversity policy 57 6. Conflicts of interest 57 7. External and internal control and risk management 58 7.1. External control 58 7.2. Internal control 58 7.3. Internal control and risk management systems 58 8. Shareholder base 61 9. Derogations from the 2020 Code 61 IV Remuneration report 62 1. Remuneration policy 62 1.1. Governance - Procedure 62 1.2. Remuneration policy for non-executive directors 62 1.3. CEO Remuneration Policy 63 1.4. Remuneration policy for members of the Executive Committee 64 1.5. Mandates in subsidiaries 64 1.6. Changes since the last remuneration policy 65 1.7. Shareholder voting 65 2. Remuneration report 66 2.1. Remuneration of non-executive directors 66 2.2. Compensation of the CEO and Executive Committee members in 2024 66 2.3. Severance payments 68 2.4. Annual changes in remuneration and Company performance 69 V Sustainability statements 70 1. General information 74 1.1. Basis for preparation 74 1.2. GOV-4 & 5 Notion of risk and due diligence 77 1.3. SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain 79 1.4. SBM-2 Interest and views of stakeholders 80 1.5. SBM-3 Material IROs and their interaction with the business model and strategy 84 1.6. IRO-1 and 2 Double materiality assessment 87 1.7. Organisation of roles and responsibilities for sustainable development issues (GOV-1, 2 and 3) 88 2. Environmental information 90 2.1. European Taxonomy information (pursuant to article 8 of Regulation 2020/852) 90 2.2. ESRS E1: Climate change 97 3. Social information 108 3.1. ESRS S1: Policies related to own workforce 108 3.2. ESRS S2: Workers in the value chain 114 4. Governance information 117 4.1. ESRS2: IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 117 4.2. Policies on responsible business culture 117 4.3. Specific objectives and monitoring of these policies 118 5. Annexes 119 5.1. Annex 1: Glossary and abbreviations 119 5.2. Annex 2: List of references 122 5.3. Annex 3: List of omitted information 123 5.4. Annex 4: Auditor’s report 124 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 29 Dear shareholders, It is our privilege to report to you on our company’s activities during the past financial year and to submit to you for approval the statutory and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024. In accordance with Article 3:32, section 1, last paragraph of the Code of Companies and Associations (“CSA”), the directors’ reports on the statutory and consolidated financial statements have been integrated into one report. I. STATUTORY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Equity and main shareholders At the end of the financial year, the Company’s share capital amounted to € 8,135,621.14, divided into 25,314,482 shares, with no de­ clared par value. All shares are fully paid up. Each share confers one vote. There are no shareholder owned shares with special con­ trol or voting rights. At the end of the 2024 financial year, the shareholders owning 5% or more of the voting rights relating to the shares they hold are: Ackermans & van Haaren SA Begijnenvest, 113, B-2000 Anvers (Belgium) 15,725,684 shares (or 62.12%) VINCI Construction SAS 1973 Boulevard de la Défense, F-92000 Nanterre (France) 3,066,460 shares (or 12.11%) 2. Notes to the statutory financial statements 2.1. Financial position at 31/12/2024 Income Statement of CFE SA (Belgian standards) (in thousands €) 2024 2023 Operating income 17,854 19.632 Operating charges (22,009) (22,653) Operating result (4,155) (3,021) Financial income 21,869 23,351 Financial expenses (11,063) (9,268) Result for the period before taxes 6,651 11,062 Income taxes on the result (9) (9) Result for the period 6,642 11,053 Financial results mainly include the proceeds of dividends paid by BPI Real Estate Belgium SA (€8 million) and Green Offshore NV (€8.175 million), partially compensated by corporate financial charges. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 30 Statement of Financial Position of CFE SA after appropriation (Belgian standards) (in thousand €) 2024 2023 Assets Non-current assets 314,109 310,461 Current assets 104,415 86,221 Total assets 418,524 396,682 Liabilities Net equity 139,043 142,322 Provisions for risks and expenses 3,988 4,006 Liabilities at more than 1 year 105,355 90,408 Liabilities at up to 1 year 170,137 159,945 Total equity and liabilities 418,524 396,682 As of December 31, 2024, non-current liabilities amount to € 105 million and include amounts drawn down on the confirmed bilateral credit facilities (€75 million) and €30 million in medium-term treasury notes. 2.2. Appropriation of profit Profit for the year 2024 € 6,641,447 Profit brought forward € 11,251,044 Profit to be allocated € 17,892,491 Other reserves € 0 Remuneration of the contribution € 9,920,770 Profit brought forward € 7,971,721 2.3. Outlook 2025 The results for the 2025 financial year will depend to a large extent on the dividends paid by the main subsidiaries of CFE, namely CFE Contracting, BPI Real Estate Belgium, Deep C Holding and Green Offshore. 2.4. Main risks and uncertainties We refer to Chapter II.1.2 of the consolidated financial statements. 2.5. Major events after the closing of the financial year No significant change in the financial and commercial situation of CFE has occurred since 31 December 2024. We also refer to the section II.3 of the consolidated financial statements. 2.6. Financial instruments The Company uses financial instruments for risk management purposes. Specifically, these are financial instruments intended ex­ clusively to manage the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. The counterparties in the related transactions are exclusively top-ranking European banks. 2.7. Notices Research and development The company has no research and development activities. Branches At year-end 2024, the Company disposed of one branch (Business Unit): CFE Tunisia. This branch has no further operational activity. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 31 Application of Article 7:96 section 1 of the CSA The provisions of Article 7:96 of the CSA concerning conflicts of interest did not have to be applied during the 2024 financial year. Transactions between CFE and affiliated companies (Article 7:97 section 4/1 to 4 of the CSA) No transactions took place between the Company and its affiliated companies in the 2024 financial year necessitating the applica­ tion of Article 7:97 section 4/1 to 4 of the CSA. Additional compensation for the auditor EY Réviseurs d’Entreprises received € 163,380 in lump-sum fees for the statutory audit. In accordance with article 3:65, section 3 of the CSA, a total of € 152,840 was paid to EY Réviseurs d’Entreprises as fees for exceptional services or special assignments. This amount is broken down as follows: • other certification assignments (including sustainability assignment): € 142,500 • other assignments outside the review: € 10,340. Acquisition or disposal of treasury shares As at 31 December 2024, CFE held 512,557 of its own shares, representing 2% of the capital. The number of treasury shares is identical to that at 31 December 2023 because the Company did not buy back or sell any of its own shares during the 2024 financial year. On 29 November 2024, the Board of Directors decided, however, to relaunch a share buyback programme up to a maximum of 200,000 shares and within the limits of the (renewed) authorisation to buy back own shares, as granted by the Company’s Extraordi­ nary General Meeting on 2 May 2024. However, this new buyback programme was only launched on 14 January 2025 and will end on 19 December 2025 at the latest. Notices pursuant to Article 74, section 7 of the Act of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids According to a joint declaration made on 7 March 2014 pursuant to the Law of 2 May 2007 on the disclosure of major shareholdings in issuers whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market that the concerted action between VINCI S.A., VINCI Con­ struction S.A.S. and Ackermans & van Haaren NV (“AvH”) ended following the closing of AvH’s mandatory takeover bid for CFE, and Stichting Administratiekantoor “Het Torentje” exercises ultimate control over AvH. As at 31 December 2024, the Company had not received any notification within the meaning of article 74 section 7 of the law of 1 April 2007 relating to public takeover bids. Protection schemes in case of a public takeover bid On 29 June 2022, the extraordinary general meeting renewed the authorisation of the Board of Directors to proceed, in the event of a takeover bid for the securities of the Company, with a capital increase of up to € 5 million within the limits of and in accordance with the provisions of Article 7:202 of the CSA. The Board of Directors is authorised to exercise these powers if the takeover bid notice is delivered by the Financial Services and Markets Authority (the ‘FSMA’) to the Company no later than three years after the date of the aforementioned Extraordinary General Meeting. The Board of Directors is also authorised, for a period of three years from the date of this extraordinary general meeting, sell or acquire up to 20% of the treasury shares in the event that such action is necessary to safeguard the Company from serious and imminent harm. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 81 Stakeholders concerned Engagement strategies Sector alliances Panel de discussions avec les alliances sectorielles Subcontractors • Former CFE materiality matrix • Quantitative research method • Internal and external interviews Suppliers • Quantitative research method • Internal and external interviews ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a ii ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a iii CFE plans to supplement this analysis with a more detailed survey of key stakeholders next year. This work is in preparation with the various sectoral alliances to ensure that the sector is aligned on the most relevant way of questioning stakeholders. ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 c ii CFE’s management was directly involved in the process of identifying IROs and assessing their materiality. At the same time, CFE’s management and various governing bodies were kept informed of the results of the stakeholder analysis of ESG aspects at specific meetings (Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board of Directors). ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 d 1.4.3. Results of stakeholder engagement The analysis of the materiality matrix reviewed in 2023, the data analysis carried out during the quantitative study (benchmarking) and the sector roundtables have helped identify initial series of relevant themes. The results are shown in the table below. In the quantitative study, a distinction was made between themes of high importance (shown here in bold) and those of medium importance (assessed by taking into account the number of times the topic was considered material in the analysis of the 40 data sets). By default, the themes identified with the other two methods are considered to be of great importance and are therefore bold in the table below. Table7: Identifying themes and sub-themes during stakeholder engagement ESRS themes and sub- themes Themes and sub-themes identified Previous double materiality exercise Analyse quantitative UPSI/BVS ADEB/VBA Management of relationships with suppliers, including payment practices Partnerships Climate change mitigation Action for the climate Climate change miti­ gation Climate change miti­ gation Climate change miti­ gation Climate change adaptation Climate change adap­ tation Climate change miti­ gation Incoming flow of resources Responsible consumption and production Incoming flow of re­ sources Resources inflow Resources inflow Outflow of resources Outflow of resources Waste management Waste management Health and safety Health and safety Health and safety Health and safety Health and safety Work-life balance Training and talent develop­ ment Quality of training Training and talent devel­ opment Energy Clean, affordable energy Energy Energy Corporate culture Decent work and economic growth Corporate culture Corruption and bribery Loss of biodiversity Loss of biodiversity Diversity Diversity Gender equality Gender equality During this identification stage, an initial list of potential IROs was also drawn up for each relevant theme. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 82 External interviews with experts focused on the methodology used to capture the views of the various stakeholders. These interviews enabled CFE not only to validate its methodology, but also to ensure the relevance of the results collected. In fact, these interviews enabled us to gather the opinions of our interviewees on the relevant themes and the associated IROs. This exercise confirmed the importance of the following themes: climate change, the circular economy, health and safety, governance and talent management. Ongoing dialogue with CFE’s stakeholders highlights ESG-related concerns, principles and processes. Recent consultations have not altered previous analyses. This proves that the in-house experts we interviewed are aware of the potentially material themes as well as the existing and emerging IROs in our sector. This means that our internal knowledge is representative of the key external stakeholders involved in this exercise. ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a v 1.4.4. Drawing up a short-list of potentially material themes A crucial step is to establish the final list of relevant material themes, and then identify all the impacts, risks and opportunities for CFE. This first stage in identifying relevant themes draws on the lessons learned from stakeholder engagement methods described in the previous chapter. They have enabled us to draw up an initial short-list of potential material themes:: 1. Climate change adaptation 2. Climate change mitigation 3. Energy 4. Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss - Changing land uses 5. Resource inflows, including resource use 6. Waste 7. Working conditions - Work-life balance 8. Working conditions - Health and safety (own employees) 9. Equal treatment and opportunities for all - Training and developing skills) 10. Working conditions - Health and safety (employees) 11. Corporate culture 12. Corruption and bribery 1.4.5. Validating the short-list of potentially material themes CFE has carried out several iterations and consistency checks to validate this list. To achieve this, CFE used information from rating agencies and carried out several review iterations with internal experts, including the various administrative, management and con­ trol bodies. Finally, the entire, extensive list of AR16 items was reviewed to ensure that no theme had been forgotten or overlooked. During these iterations several themes were added, in particular the following ones: 13. Water usage 14. Resource outflows related to products and services 15. Gender equality 16. Diversity 17. Communities’ economic, social and cultural rights - Land-related impacts 18. Protection of whistle-blowers 19. Management of relationships with suppliers, including payment practices We can see that no theme has been removed, but that on the contrary, the final short-list contains all the potentially material themes listed. The short-list of potentially material subjects therefore comprises 19 themes. The following steps will consist in: • identifying potential IROs linked to these themes (an exercise already begun during the previous phase of dialogue with stake­ holders); • scoring these IROs; • clustering IROs into ESG topics – it is these ESG themes that are shown in the DMA graphic. 1.5. SBM-3 Material IROs and their interaction with the business model and strategy As a key element in identifying material sustainability issues, CFE has carried out a DMA. Materiality has been applied since 2019, when CFE began reporting under the NFRD regulations, but the concept has evolved under current CSRD legislation. As of 2019, all ESG themes have been categorised in a materiality matrix taking into account the degree of importance for the dif­ ferent stakeholders and the impact on the business and financial performance. All the high materiality themes (priority themes), i.e. having both a high impact on CFE’s business and performance and which are important for the stakeholders, have therefore been Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 83 closely monitored. A regular review of this matrix was then carried out and systematically validated by the administrative, management and control bodies. This methodology anticipated to some extent the philosophy of a DMA under the CSRD. In 2024, CFE took a new DMA approach using the concept of “financial materiality” (outside-in) and “impact materiality” (inside-out) based on ESRS 2 and EFRAG IG1’s implementation guidance “Materiality assessment”. The methodology for identifying potentially material themes has been presented in chapter 1.4- SBM-2 Interest and view of stakeholders. The methodology used to determine the IROs relating to these themes and to assess them will be presented in chapter 1.6 IRO-1 and 2 Double materiality assessment. CFE is convinced that the results presented give a true and fair view of its key sustainability issues, including impacts, risks and op­ portunities. The following sections provide more details on the results of the DMA and the process applied. 1.5.1. Results of the double materiality assessment exercise The table below summarises our assessment of the importance of sustainability issues, indicating whether they have an impact or financial materiality (or both). As far as the financial perspective is concerned, it specifies whether the importance is linked to a risk or an opportunity. Only material sub-themes are represented. The analysis of the IROs was carried out in detail with the various stakeholders. On the basis of the DMA, three topics were selected as material: “Climate change mitigation”, “Safety and health of own workforce” and “Safety and health of subcontractors”. CFE presents its analysis of IROs in chapter 1.5.2 “Impact, risks and opportunities for material themes”. The other chapters of the Sus­ tainability Statement detail policies, objectives, key performance indicators and progress for each material theme in accordance with the CSRD format, following the sequence included in the ESRS under “2. environmental information”, and “3. social information“. ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 a Table 8: DMA results Material for CFE Definition Corresponding ESRS Impact materiality Financial materiality Risk Opportunity Climate change miti­ gation The process of reduc­ ing CFE's GHG emissions (scope 1, fleet, fuel and gas; scope 2, electricity; scope 3, building materials, en­ ergy demands of property projects). Climate change (ESRS E1) - Climate change mitigation yes yes yes Health and safety Health and safety indica­ tors, policies and practices for all CFE employees Own workforce (ESRS S1) - Working conditions - Health and safety yes no no Health and safety indica­ tors, policies and practices for all subcontractors. Value chain workers (ESRS S2) - Working conditions - Health and safety The first material theme is therefore the mitigation of the effects of climate change. Indeed, the construction sector has a significant impact on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. From a financial point of view, there is a significant risk of increasing costs linked to possible taxes or the need to use materials or techniques that could prove more costly. On the other hand, the move towards new markets such as energy renovation and the construction of buildings in line with the European taxonomy represent real opportuni­ ties for the sector. The risks and opportunities envisaged, however, do not require an immediate and radical adaptation of the Group’s business mod­ el. Indeed, the current model is already in line with the strategy, which focuses on designing and developing sustainable buildings, intelligent industry and infrastructure for green energy and mobility. Rather, it’s a transition to increased activity of this kind in the future, and both the teams and the company are ready for it. Further details can be found in section 2.2.1. The health and safety of the Group’s workers and subcontractors working on the sites are the two other key issues. In particular, there is a high probability of negative impact, as the sector is known to be highly accident-prone. Strictly speaking, there is no ma­ terial financial risk or opportunity for these themes. There is therefore no need to plan any radical changes to the business model, but rather to continue with the specific actions put in place to reduce the risk of accidents on site as much as possible for everyone involved in the project. Further details can be found in section 3.1.2 and 3.2.2. The double materiality exercise also shows that two topics are fairly close to the materiality thresholds defined by CFE (see details of the definition of these thresholds in chapter 1.6.2). These topics concern “talent management and retention” and “management and use of incoming resources”. These themes in particular are therefore closely monitored internally, as they could become material in Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO yes no no"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 84 a future reassessment of the internal and external context. Preventive actions are therefore taken. As far as talent is concerned, the emphasis is on training and communication. CFE has also developed a CFE Academy, digitising training courses and facilitating access to them at the most convenient times for employees. The monitoring of employee apprais­ als and development has also been digitised. In terms of resources, particular attention is paid to key project resources, as well as to developments in the circular economy mar­ ket and the use of biobased materials. These subjects are monitored on a regular basis. The double materiality exercise also shows that the themes of corporate culture, whistleblower protection and corruption and brib­ ery (combined in a “business conduct and compliance with the law” theme) are not material, which might seem surprising at first glance. A critical analysis and verification of assumptions and materiality thresholds has therefore been carried out specifically for these themes. This analysis confirmed the results obtained. Indeed, although benchmarking shows that in similar companies, the theme of governance is often highlighted, there is not yet sufficient public data on materiality analyses in the context of CSRD at the time of the DMA 2024 exercise. This could lead to a biased comparison. It is also important to underline the differences in activity, geographical presence and structure that distinguish CFE from its peers that could be taken as a reference for comparison. The probability of a governance-related incident is relatively low when assessing the financial impact. Several observations can be made in this regard: • Geographic: CFE has limited its commercial activities to Belgium, Poland, Luxembourg and Germany. In this European so­ cio-economic context, solid regulations, well-enforced laws and a politically stable environment significantly reduce the likeli­ hood of corruption-related incidents. • As a listed company, the CFE group has a strong information culture. It adheres to high standards of financial reporting and transparency, reinforcing its internal control processes. • Finally, the track record of the group confirms this sound management. Further information can also be found in chapter 4 Information on governance. The same question could be asked of climate change adaptation. This is mainly due to the nature of CFE’s activities. In terms of opportunities, CFE does not specialise in civil engineering or in the creation of specific engineering structures to protect against the effects of climate change, such as dykes, storm water basins, etc. With regard to projects traditionally carried out by CFE (hous­ ing, offices, etc.), current regulations already take considerable account of the main risks in our regions.Nor does CFE have many buildings or real estate in its portfolio that could be at risk. Furthermore, based on the DMA, the following themes (from the short­ list of potentially material topics as listed in sections 1.4.4 and 1.4.5) were also not considered material: energy, biodiversity, waste management, water use, resource use related to products and services, DE&I, economic, social, and cultural rights of communities (land-related impacts), and supplier relationship management. 1.5.2. Impact, risks and opportunities for material themes Table 9 : IROs for material themes Topic Sub-topic Sub-sub- topic IRO type IRO description Time horizon Main affected tier in the value chain Climate change Climate change mitigation Negative Impact Carbon emissions due to embodied carbon (building materials) and operational carbon (energy consumption of build buildings) Short term Own sector tier 0 Downstream tier 1+ Climate change Climate change mitigation Risk CO2 quotas or taxes which will increase ex­ penses/lower margin Mid term Own sector tier 0 Downstream tier 1+ Lower level of activity or mitigation to more ex­ pensive solutions Own sector tier 0 Downstream tier 1+ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 85 Topic Sub-topic Sub-sub- topic IRO type IRO description Time horizon Main affected tier in the value chain Climate change Climate change mitigation Opportunity Design and construction of EUT aligned buildings, which differentiate from competitors Actual Downstream tier 1+ High CO2 PL level score to have commercial ad­ vantage in tenderings Own sector tier 0 Renovation market for energetic renovation has a huge potential to decrease operational carbon emissions Own sector tier 0 Downstream tier 1+ Upstream tier 1+ Own workforce Working conditions Health and safety Negative Impact Accidents, even deadly accidents are possible on-site Actual Own sector tier 0 Workers in the value chain Working conditions Health and safety Negative Impact Accidents, even deadly accidents are possible on-site Actual Upstream tier 1+ The table above shows the material impacts, risks and opportunities related to sustainable development that have been identified as part of the DMA process. They also indicate which link in the value chain these impacts, risks or opportunities are mainly associ­ ated with. In addition, it specifies whether the impacts are positive or negative, actual or potential, as well as the main time horizon considered. All risks and opportunities have anticipated financial effects based on available knowledge and judgements. Further information on how the effects of impacts, risks and opportunities are addressed is included in the thematic sections entitled “2. Environmental information” and “3. Social information”. ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 a ;b; 48c I, ii, iii, iv; d; f; g; h In particular, the description of the anticipated financial effects of significant risks and opportunities on the financial position, finan­ cial performance and cash flows over the short, medium and long term will be detailed in the following specific chapters: • 2.2.1 SBM3: Material IROs, and their interaction with strategy and business model - in the ESRS E1 section: climate change; • 3.1.2 SBM3: Material IROs, and their interaction with strategy and business model - in the ESRS S1 section: own workforce; • 3.2.2 SBM3: Material IROs, and their interaction with strategy and business model - in the ESRS S2 section: Workers in the value chain. ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 e Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 86 1.6. IRO-1 and 2 Double materiality assessment 1.6.1. Description of the procedure applied to assess double materiality The figure below illustrates the double materiality assessment process.. Figure 3 : Visualisation of the DMA assessment process The first 4 steps have already been described in detail in previous chapters (SBM1 and SBM2). These include value chain mapping (chap 1.3.2), identification of the main stakeholders involved (chap 1.4.1), stakeholder engage­ ment (chap 1.4.2 and 1.4.3), and finally a short-list of ESG themes relevant to CFE and which would be sources of impact, risk and op­ portunity (chap 1.4.4 and 1.4.5). Once these themes had been identified, during engagement with stakeholders, potential IROs were already identified for the selected themes. After several iterations, an internal exercise with the help of management and experts enabled us to identify the main IROs. ESRS 2 IRO-1 53 b,c,d,g 1.6.2. Description of the methodology used to evaluate IROs CFE has developed its methodology with reference to ESRS 2 “General disclosures” and EFRAG’s implementation guide IG1 “Materiality Assessment”. The sections below deal with the concepts of pre-mitigation, the definition and consolidation of the impact and finan­ cial materiality identified throughout the Group’s business cycles, and the coverage obtained in terms of DMA. Pre-mitigation CFE evaluates potential IROs identified throughout the business cycle on the basis of prior mitigation. This means that the assess­ ment is carried out before any mitigation measures – going beyond what is expected of a typical company in the sector on the basis of management “best practice” – are applied. Impact materiality A sustainability issue is material from the point of view of impact when the actual or potential impact, positive or negative, of CFE on people or the environment is significant in the short, medium or long term. In accordance with the ESRS, three parameters - “scale”, “scope” and “irremediable character” (for negative impacts only) - were used to assess the “severity” of impacts. Because the themes can be diverse, touching on the environment as well as people, biodiversity, etc., it is impossible to have a sin­ gle definition of scale or scope. CFE has therefore prepared a definition of the levels (from 1 to 5) considered by type of impact. Value chain mapping Identification of key stakeholders concerned Engagement with stakeholders Identification of potentially material themes Identification of IROs Evaluation (scoring) of IROs Validation by successive iterations Clustering of hardware IROs if necessary Final double materiality matrix Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 87 The evaluation was carried out by business sector (Real Estate Development, C&R and Multitechnics). For real estate and C&R activ­ ities, the evaluation has been split into construction and renovation projects. For the Multitechnics activities a separate analysis was carried out for VMA and MOBIX. This division has been made to take account of substantial differences in the impact of the activities. Weighting for the CFE group to obtain a final score by potential material theme was carried out in two phases. Firstly, based on the percentage of new or renovation projects in our portfolio. The various business sectors were then weighted to obtain a final number. To prevent potentially significant issues in (financially) smaller business sectors from being overlooked by taking a weighted average based on financial parameters, a weighted average is taken for impact materiality based on ESG allocation keys specific to the theme being evaluated. These non-financial figures give a better representation of the CFE group’s impact. For example, for worker-related themes (health and safety, talent management, etc.) the weighting will be based on the number of employees per business sector. A topic must score at least 3.5 out of 5 to be considered material. With a score of 3 or above, a theme is considered to be one to watch, as a short- or medium-term re-evaluation could lead to it being requalified as a material theme. This threshold was defined during workshops with experts from the various AvH Group subsidiaries. Workshop during which an analysis of the market and best practices was carried out. This threshold was then discussed and validated by the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Financial materiality A sustainability topic is important from a financial point of view if it triggers or could trigger significant financial consequences for CFE in the short, medium or long term. With regard to financial materiality, CFE considers the impact on net income using a rolling 5-year historical average, including oc­ casional capital gains. For one-off risks and opportunities, the effect on equity in the most recent year is taken into account. As with the materiality of impact, the evaluation was carried out for all four business sectors. For real estate, the evaluation was also divided between new-build and renovation projects. This division has been made because we can suggest substantial differences between the impact of the activities. The financial impact is weighted by a probability factor. During the evaluation, we reduced the financial impact over several years to an annual impact. This has been done to take account of the fact that the evaluation was made for different time horizons. For the definition of financial importance, calculations were made on the basis of a typical CFE business cycle: the previous 3 years and the next 2 years of CFE’s net income. In the meantime, the profit for the year 2024 is known, but it does not materially impact my definition of financial importance. Based on its experience and sound management, a financial impact greater than 10% was con­ sidered as material by the Board of Directors. This corresponds to a threshold of EUR 3,178,380. In line with the impact materiality, this threshold corresponds to a value of 3.5 on a scale of 0 to 5 (0 corresponding to EUR 0.00). ESRS 2 IRO-1 53 a 1.7. Organisation of roles and responsibilities for sustainable development issues (GOV-1, 2 and 3) To remain in touch with the field and market while guaranteeing a global and integrated strategic approach despite its decentral­ ised business model, CFE has put in place clear ESG governance. The overall strategy, long-term vision and target setting is the re­ sponsibility of CFE’s Executive Committee. This strategy and the ESG policy as a whole (materiality, policies, objectives, action plan) are presented annually to the Board of Directors for approval. The results of this policy (KPIs in line with objectives) are also presented to the Audit Committee for validation at least once a year. In 2024, the reporting process and in particular materiality were reviewed to align with CSRD recommendations. This complex process required more regular monitoring. Progress in terms of materiality and the implementation of data collection was therefore also presented at each Audit Committee meeting in 2024. Further details are available in the “Corporate Governance Statement”. ESRS 2 GOV-2 Specific details of the ESG credentials of CFE’s Board of Directors can be found in the “Corporate Governance Statement, 2. Board of Directors - 2.1 Composition”. Specific information on the ESG parameters of variable compensation for the Executive Committee and management is available in the “Remuneration Report, 2.4 Compensation components”. ESRS 2 GOV-1 & 3 Every three years, the various Business Units are required to carry out a strategic exercise. They then implement the Group’s strategy according to their own business lines in a medium-term vision. This ambition is validated by the Executive Committee. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 97 change on the community, such as extreme weather events or rising sea levels. Consequently, although these projects are essential for urban and social development, their direct contribution to climate change adaptation remains limited. As CFE does not actually hold any real estate in its portfolio, there is no real financial risk associated with climate change adaptation. The absence of these assets means that CFE is not directly exposed to the potential costs associated with upgrading or protecting infrastructure against climate impacts. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19c Although climate change mitigation is a material issue for CFE, involving the reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions as well as its en­ ergy consumption, the theme of energy transition is not considered a material subject. This is because Scope 3 emissions, including embodied and operational carbon, are significantly higher than direct emissions. In other words, indirect emissions linked to the materials used and building operations account for a much larger share of CFE’s total carbon footprint, so the leverage effect of this energy transition is much less relevant than managing Scope 3 emissions. For this reason, CFE will not report on ESRS E1-5. The assessment of impacts, risks and opportunities linked to climate change has been carried out taking into account the Group’s different business lines, as each segment may present specific IROs. A consolidation exercise was then carried out as described in chapter 1.5 of the DMA. This analysis was carried out taking into account different time horizons (current, short-term, medium-term and long-term). On the other hand, the anticipated financial effects of IROs have been omitted by applying the phase-in principle. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 a, b , ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR7b Although climate change is material for CFE, it does not constitute a risk requiring immediate and radical adaptation of the group’s business model. Indeed, the current model is already in line with the strategy, which focuses on designing and developing sustaina­ ble buildings, intelligent industry and infrastructure for green energy and mobility. Rather, it’s a transition to increased activity of this kind in the future, and both the teams and the company are ready for it. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 c, ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR 8b 2.2.2. E1.IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities CFE has assessed the list of ESRS themes in its DMA, including ESRS E1 climate change, ESRS E2 pollution, ESRS E3 water and marine re­ sources, ESRS E4 biodiversity and ecosystems, and ESRS E5 resource use and circular economy. On the basis of the DMA carried out, only ESRS E1 climate change is identified as a risk with a high materiality of impact and financial impact. The process of identifying impacts, risks and opportunities is described in more detail in section 1.4.3 relating to DMA in Sustainability Statements. As stipulated in the ESRS, the DMA exercise covers the entire value chain and is assessed over different time horizons. ESRS E1.IRO-1 20 a,b,c, AR 9 et AR12a The main risks, opportunities and impacts are transition risks. These are detailed in chapter 1.5.2. For climate risks, the phasing-in of provisions for the year ending 31 December 2024 have been used. CFE has developed a method­ ology for assessing climate risks and opportunities. This assessment will cover both physical and transitional risks in its own opera­ tions, as well as along the upstream and downstream value chain (including detailed scenario suggestions and time horizons to be covered in short-, medium- and long-term scenario analysis). Phase in requirements for ESRS ­E1.IRO-1, ­AR 11 a, b, c & d, 21, AR 12 a, b, c & d, 21 et AR 15 An initial analysis indicates that no major physical risks have been identified in connection with the Group’s activities. This analysis confirms the DMA results. The assessment will therefore focus on transition risks. The results of this assessment could have an impact on the DMA exercise carried out. 2.2.3. E1-2 Climate change mitigation policies CFE has drafted a policy entitled “Climate Change Policy”. It does not cover climate change adaptation, as this theme has not been deemed material. ESRS E1-2 24, 25 This policy applies to all the Group’s activities and is addressed to all Group employees. It was drafted by the Group’s CSO and ap­ proved by the Executive Committee and Board of Directors. It is available to employees via the Group intranet. With this policy, CFE undertakes not only to monitor its GHG emissions, but also to implement the actions necessary to achieve its ambitions in terms of reducing these emissions. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 98 To ensure the quality and completeness of the data monitored, this policy is accompanied by a specific manual on data definition and collection methods. Data is collected by the Business Units and consolidated by the central teams in accordance with GHG protocol methods. This policy also addresses the roles and responsibilities of the various Business Units in drawing up local action plans. It is also based on standards and certifications specific to the various businesses (ISO, CO2 performance scale, etc.). CFE revised its decarbonisation objectives in 2024 and now aims to reduce its direct emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 40% by 2030 com­ pared with 2020 emissions. Indirect emissions (scope 3) need to be reduced by 20% by 2030, compared with the values measured in 2024. ESRS E1-2 24 The path to decarbonisation is a complex one, as the construction sector has a long, fragmented and interdependent value chain. Rather than setting bold ambitions without concrete actions, CFE believes in annual progress based on operational excellence, available technologies and innovation efforts. The growth in turnover and CAPEX in line with the EU’s taxonomy is further proof of this commitment. There is clearly still a need to improve data collection, establish comparable baselines for the sector as a whole, and verify the fea­ sibility and availability of technologies that can act as levers for decarbonisation. As a result, the 2050 transition plan is still under development. This takes into account the evolution of current technological limitations, insufficient sector innovation, and the overall lack of visibility on the commitments of the rest of the sector. Furthermore, Scope 3 emissions were only calculated this year, and still have their limitations, as already highlighted above. On the other hand, a GHG reduction plan for 2030 has been put in place, demonstrating our decarbonisation efforts. This plan is based on the SBTi framework. Although not yet formally validated, CFE will adhere to the SBTi framework as soon as possible. ESRS E1-1 16a 2.2.4. E1-1, E1-3 et E1-4: Transition plans, decarbonisation levers, targets and resources in relation to cli­ mate change policies To remain in touch with the field and market while guaranteeing a global and integrated strategic approach despite its decentral­ ised business model, CFE has put in place clear ESG governance. The overall strategy, long-term vision and target setting is the responsibility of CFE’s Executive Committee. In particular, this means that the Group’s overall GHG emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2050 and the related transition plans (in line with the CSRD) are the responsibility of the Executive Committee. On the other hand, each Business Unit develops its own specific reduction action plans, taking into account its own business and oper­ ating model. The relevance of these plans and the possibility of carrying out collective actions are assessed at Sustainability Boards. As climate change and the negative impact of GHG emissions have been identified as material issues at Group level, these aspects are included in the annual ESG review at Board level. Changes in indicators and targets are also presented annually to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. ESRS E1-1, 16 h & i In 2024, 100% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030. For 2050, no commitment has been made for the reasons explained in section 2.2.3. Consequently, no Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are currently covered by a transition plan for this horizon. This plan is currently under development. 100% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030 (short-term). These targets are aligned with SBTi and therefore compatible with the Paris agreements to limit global warming to 1.5°C in terms of reduction ambition, although they have not yet been formally validated by SBTi. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a For Scope 3 GHG emissions, the most significant emission categories were mapped in 2024. Emissions representing less than 1% of the total are considered non-material and will not be reported. A consultant carried out an audit to verify that no material aspect of the scope 3 emissions calculation had been overlooked, and that the calculation methodology was indeed correct. The data collected in 2024 is considered a reference value for setting the basis for reduction efforts in 2030. Scope 3 emissions come mainly from the emissions category purchases of goods and services, and are based on expenditure data for the materials with the high­ est emissions for the business sector (concrete, steel, special techniques, façade elements). This calculation method will be subject to subsequent adjustments to improve accuracy. Where relevant to the company, more granular data will be collected based on activity data, to refine calculations and provide better information on actions to be taken. This will be an ongoing process for years to come. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 99 Scope 3 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030. Although these targets are compatible with the reduction ambitions of the Paris agreements, they are not formally validated by the SBTi. These targets will be determined according to the emission inten­ sity of the various materials. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a,g Table 18 : Percentage of GHG emissions covered by a reduction target and/or plan Datapoints 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 Percentage of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 100% ESRS E1-1 16 a GHG emissions for scope 3 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 0% ESRS E1-1 16 a 2.2.4.1 Transition plan, objectives and progress Direct emissions: Scope 1 and 2 As of 2021, CFE is committed to reducing its GHG emissions intensity by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. In 2024, CFE reviewed its objectives by committing to reduce its absolute GHG emissions by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. This target is com­ patible with the Paris Agreements and is in line with the SBTi (but has not been officially validated by the SBTi). ESRS E1-4 33 Scope 1 and 2 emissions mainly concern production activities, i.e. Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics. It is therefore in these activities that actions aimed at limiting GHG emissions are mainly deployed. On the other hand, efforts relating to the fleet (company cars) concern all the Group’s activities. ESRS E1-4 34b Lever 1 - Mobility and logistics The first lever activated concerns mobility. As far as company cars are concerned, a mobility plan that benefits workers has been rolled out across the Group to encourage the adoption of alternative modes of transport such as cycling or public transport. Electric cars are widely encouraged. To facilitate adoption, charging stations are installed at most of the Group’s worksites. The fill rate of the vans as well as their routes are being optimised, and tests are being carried out with hybrid and electric vans. Finally, trucks and other heavy construction equipment are gradually being replaced by less polluting vehicles. Mobility-related actions alone repre­ sent a potential 28% reduction in total GHG scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030. Lever 2 - Site energy consumption A second tool for limiting GHG production is to reduce energy consumption for site installations. On site, we monitor energy con­ sumption and can now optimise consumption by tracking down abnormal over-consumption in particular. Understanding of this consumption is supported by improvements in the insulation of the building site containers, as well as various corrective measures. Solar panels are also installed on many construction sites. The positioning of the site installations therefore also takes into account the optimisation of sunlight for the site cabins. In general, the use of green electricity is recommended on construction sites when­ ever possible. The reduction potential of these actions is of the order of 15% by 2030. Particular attention is paid to generators used for site start-up or as occasional back-up for winter heating needs. These generators consume large amounts of energy. Pilot studies are being carried out with batteries or hydrogen generators. The reduction potential has not yet been assessed, as current technologies are not yet efficient. Lever 3 - Office energy consumption For existing head offices where CFE owns the premises, energy audits have been carried out as well as renovations to keep energy consumption to a minimum. Solar panels and energy management systems have also been installed. Finally, BPC, BPI Real Estate, CLE, Van Laere, VMA and CFE’s head office have moved into new buildings designed and built by the group’s entities, all of which are very low-energy buildings. CFE’s new Wood Hub headquarters is particularly exemplary in terms of energy consumption. The building is heated and cooled by geothermal energy and heat pumps, and is equipped with 300 solar panels. This makes Wood Hub almost energy independent, with primary energy consumption of no more than 8.59 kWh per m2. Compared with the current aver­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 100 age of 180 kWh/m2/year for office buildings, Wood Hub stands out as an exceptional NZEB (Nearly Zero Energy Building), designed for the future. The reduction potential of these actions is fairly limited (less than 1%), as total energy consumption in offices is very low compared with construction sites. Nevertheless, these actions are necessary to be consistent with other actions and to establish a real corporate culture around the challenges of climate change. Although we have taken advantage of most of the levers for reducing GHG emissions from scopes 1 and 2, CFE continues to seek further optimisation of its energy consumption. The company regularly tests new pilot projects on its worksites, and closely monitors technological advances and innovations in this field. Particular attention is paid to construction site generators, for which current technology unfortunately does not yet meet market expectations. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j, ESRS E1-4 34f, 16b To ensure that these various measures are followed up, and that worksites choose the solutions best suited to their situation, CFE has compiled all solutions that bring good results in a handbook called the ‘Greenbook’. By 2024, CFE has already achieved an absolute reduction of 25% in total scope 1 and 2 compared with the 2020 reference values. The expected results for 2024 were to achieve a 16% reduction on 2020 values. These excellent results are due in particular to the rapid adoption of on-site energy optimisation methods and an effective fleet greening policy. ESRS E1-3 29 b Table 19 : Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by source Scope 1 and 2 results of actions taken Unit 2020 Reference 2023 N-1 2024 N Improvement on N-1 Improvement on reference year Scope 1 tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,974.47 11,235.58 -20% -29% Fleet tCO2eq 11,713.19 9,821.61 8,329.56 -15% -29% Fuel tCO2eq 3,319.34 3,078.64 1,966.17 -36% -41% Gas tCO2eq 779.64 992.62 899.72 -9% 15% Refrigerants tCO2eq 0.00 81.60 40.13 -51% Scope 2 tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,412.11 1,954.99 38% 4% Electricity tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,342.15 1,742.15 30% -7% Electricity for the fleet tCO2eq 0.00 69,96* 212.84 204% Total scope 1 and 2 tCO2eq 17,684.17 15,386.58 13,190.57 -14% -25% *In the previous year’s report (2023), GHG emissions linked to electric vehicle charging were erroneously calculated in scope 1 instead of scope 2, which explains the minimal deviation in scope 1 and 2 values for 2023 (67.69 tCO2eq). However, total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2023 remain unchanged ESRS E1-3 29 b, ESRS E1-4 34 a,b Indirect emissions: Scope 3 In 2024, CFE carried out a complete analysis of its indirect emissions according to the GHG Protocol. This analysis highlighted the material categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions, which are “purchases of goods and services”, which accounts for 92% of emissions, “use of products sold”, which accounts for 7% of emissions, and to a lesser extent “goods and equipment”, which accounts for 1% of emissions. In the “purchases of goods and services” category, this analysis shows that a small category of materials is responsible for the majority of these emissions. These include concrete, steel, façade elements and, to a lesser extent, technical building instal­ lations such as HVAC, piping, cabling, etc. Taking into account this analysis, as well as current technologies, information and con­ struction methods, CFE has defined its objectives for 2030. CFE has carried out an in-depth study of the stated objectives of its value chain, in particular those of suppliers of materials with a high impact on GHG emissions. Based on this information, CFE has set itself the target of reducing its Scope 3 emissions by 20% by 2030, based on 2024 values. A detailed reduction plan has yet to be drawn up, requiring a more granular analysis of the data. Specific targets for the “use of products sold” category will also be defined from 2025. The 20% reduction target applies to the entire CFE group. ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-4 33, ESRS E1-4 34b As 2024 is the reference year, so far there are no measurable results from the actions undertaken. ESRS E1-3 29 b Lever 1 - Sustainable suppliers and materials The main lever for reducing scope 3 GHGs is therefore the commitment of suppliers who themselves have targets and reduction plans in line with the Paris agreements. Alongside this lever, CFE also wants to take a pro-active approach. As a developer, BPI Real Estate is committed to developing sustainable projects and limiting both the level of embodied carbon and Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 101 the carbon content of its buildings. BPI Real Estate uses Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) in accordance with EN19578 and relies on the taxonomy’s criteria wherever possible. As Multitechnics contractors and companies, CFE actively proposes sustainable and innovative alternatives at the tender stage or even during project execution. These may be reused material alternatives, bio-sourced materials, or others. A centralised centre of expertise supports field teams in developing these sustainable variants and solutions, and also centralises best practices in a database available to all Group employees. CFE is also involved in innovative pilot projects, such as the Buildwise project to optimise site logistics through the use of consolida­ tion centres with Buildwise. Lever 2 - Stimulating change in the sector CFE participates in, and/or chairs, numerous sector-specific working groups aimed at implementing large-scale sustainable and innovative solutions. In particular, this concerns the circular economy, the adoption of the “CO2 performance ladder”, the revision of public specifications, etc. CFE is also particularly active in the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Construction (BA4SC), which brings together representatives of the various professional associations in the construction sector around the themes of sustainability and climate change in particular. Lever 3 - Opportunities in the business model CFE has also launched three new Business Units aimed at bringing a new, more sustainable approach to construction projects. They are Wood shapers, Vmanager and Pulse. Wood Shapers, a subsidiary of the CFE group, specialises in sustainable construction using mainly wood and other bio-sourced materials. With its focus on reducing carbon footprints and using recyclable materials, Wood Shapers contributes to greener con­ struction. Furthermore, the spaces created by the company are designed to enhance the well-being of occupants through healthy materials and safer working environments. VMA offers ESCO services that provide guaranteed energy performance to clients who so desire. In 2020, VMA launched Vmanager, a piece of software and an App targeting energy savings, energy flow management and, in general, construction technology man­ agement. This innovative tool facilitates intelligent and sustainable management of new and renovated buildings by combining VMA’s technical expertise, intensive monitoring and tools to supervise and control their actual energy performance. The develop­ ment of Vmanager combined with the know-how of VMA makes it possible to offer a global solution for energy management. Finally, Pulse specialises in property redevelopment, offering an integrated solution to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase occupant comfort. The company offers services ranging from energy and environmental audits to com­ plete building renovation and the installation of innovative technologies. Pulse aims to increase the value of its clients’ real estate assets while meeting environmental requirements and guaranteeing an optimal return on investment. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j Summary table of GHG reduction targets Table 20: GHG reduction targets Specific CO2 reduction targets Reference year Reference value target year for the objective value 2024 reduction in 2024 compared with the reference year expected reduction in target year since refer­ ence year tCO2eq tCO2eq % tCO2eq % tCO2eq Scope 1-2 market based 2020 17,683.79 2030 13,190.57 -25% -4,493.22 -40% -7,073.52 Scope 3 2024 482,306.42 2030 482,306.42 0% 0.00 -20% -96,461.28 ­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 102 other actions concern raising awareness or switching to alternative means of transport, which are included in the Group’s mobility plan. This plan takes into account all aspects of mobility (TCO, taxes, etc.) and does not involve any particular costs or investments. Levers 2 and 3: Energy consumption on site and in the offices To limit this, on-site consumption is monitored daily to prevent energy wastage, solar panels are being installed on the site barracks and more efficient generators are being used. There are no major costs associated with these actions, as the reduction in con­ sumption generally offsets the investment in equipment. These amounts are marginal. At the same time, a switch to green energy has already been in place since 2020. The relocation of CFE and its subsidiaries BPC, BPI, CLE, VMA and Van Laere to new buildings that consume very little energy (notably Wood Hub), as well as the renovation of other group headquarters, has also significantly reduced the group’s energy consumption. CFE has not identified any assets whose economic lifetime should be reduced. Note on CAPEX aligned with European taxonomy Capex plays an essential role in the development of sustainable activities. These relate to equipment and machinery, CFE’s own fleet and, to a lesser extent, CFE’s offices and production sites. In 2024, a total of EUR 27 million was invested in these categories, 13.97% of which was directly linked to sustainable projects, in accordance with the EU taxonomy. Indirect emissions: Scope 3 At this stage, it is too early to draw conclusions on the resources supporting the transition plan for Scope 3 emissions. It’s a complex subject because it concerns the entire value chain. A more detailed analysis will be carried out in 2025. Nevertheless, the initial trends are as follows: The CFE group’s activities will be developed to reduce costs in terms of CO2 emissions, particularly in terms of the choice of materi­ als and transporting materials and waste in the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments. It is also expected that the proportion of renovation and energy-efficiency renovation work will increase as the regulatory framework evolves. The financial impact of the choice of materials or the development of new approaches to transport is estimated at the project submission stage and then incorporated into the commercial offer submitted to the customer. This study is carried out on a pro­ ject-by-project basis, so margins are re-evaluated at the start of each new order. On the other hand, a residual risk is the cost of the inefficiencies inherent in learning new production techniques or new approaches to logistics. This is because it is not always possi­ ble to anticipate (both at contractual level and when preparing for project implementation) and quantify with sufficient accuracy. The real estate business systematically includes solutions for reducing the energy consumption of buildings during the develop­ ment of new projects. In addition, renovation projects for existing buildings are becoming increasingly common. Once the land has been acquired to develop a project, a feasibility study is carried out. The cost price of the project is estimated and incorporated into the commercial offer made to customers. Specific framework To ensure that these actions are implemented, CFE has strengthened its management team with local Sustainability Officers work­ ing in the various Business Units, as well as a team working at the holding company to consolidate information and support local teams. The cost of this specific framework is included in “operating costs” as presented in the Financial Report on page 128. Further details will be provided from 2025 onwards. ESRS E1-3 29 ci, ESRS E1-1 16c The resources linked to the transition plan will be reassessed in greater detail in 2025 to analyse the costs linked to the scope 3 re­ duction plan, once this has been finalised. Similarly, an analysis will be made to take account of the 2050 targets and the corresponding reduction plan once it has been final­ ised. No significant capital investment is planned for economic activities related to thermal coal, nuclear power or fossil fuel. ESRS E1-1 16 f; ESRS E1-3 29 c ii,16 c & c iii,16 c 2.2.4.3 Risks of blocking GHG emissions Capital expenditure (CAPEX) has been assessed and the blocking risk has not been considered significant. ESRS E1-1 16 d 2.2.4.4 EU benchmarks aligned with Paris agreements Neither CFE nor any of its subsidiaries are excluded from the EU benchmarks aligned with the Paris agreements. ESRS E1-1 16 g Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 103 2.2.5. E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 2.2.5.1 Total GHG footprint Gross greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG protocol. This means that they are not limited to car­ bon dioxide (CO2) alone, but also include other greenhouse gases such as methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). ESRS E1-6 AR 39b For the CFE group, the limits of GHG reporting under financial (accounting) and operational control are the same. This is due to the fact that all Business Units are fully integrated into the consolidated financial statements. Projects under joint control (joint ventures or joint operations) are accounted for according to CFE’s share (pro-rata) in the project. This integrated approach ensures that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting is consistent with financial reporting. ESRS E1-6 50 Table 21 : GHG emissions by scope Datapoints Unit 2020 reference year 2022 2023 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 Total gross Scope 1 GHG emissions tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,914.14 13,974.48 11,235.58 ESRS E1-6 48 a Percentage of scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading schemes % 0% 0% 0% 0% ESRS E1-6 48 b GHG emissions for scope 2 Total gross scope 2 lease-based GHG emissions tCO2eq NC* NC NC 3.520,07 ESRS E1-6 49 a, 52 a Total gross scope 2 market-based GHG emissions tCO2eq 1.872.00 1,394.96 1,412.11 1,954.99 ESRS E1-6 49 b, 52 b Significant GHG emissions for scope 3 Total gross indirect scope 3 GHG emissions tCO2eq NC NC NC 482,306.42 ESRS E1-6 51 Category 1. Purchased goods and services tCO2eq NC NC NC 445,204.25 Category 2. Capital goods tCO2eq NC NC NC 4,968.62 Category 3. Fuel and energy-related activities tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 4. Upstream transportation and distribution tCO2eq NC NC NC Included in Category 1 Category 5. Waste generated in operations tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 6. Business travel tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 7. Employee commuting tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 8. Upstream leased assets tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 9. Downstream transportation and distri­ bution tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 10. Processing of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 11. Use of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC 32,133.75 Category 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC Included in Category 1 Category 13. Downstream leased assets tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 14. Franchises tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 15. Investments tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 location based tCO2eq NC NC NC 497,062.07 ESRS E1-6 44, 52 a Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 market based tCO2eq NC NC NC 495,496.99 ESRS E1-6 44, 52 b Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 104 Datapoints Unit 2020 reference year 2022 2023 2024 Reference GHG emissions outside scope 1-2-3 Direct biogenic carbon emissions (Scope 1-2-3) NC NC NC Not applicable ESRS E1-6 AR 43c, 45e, 46j *NC means not considered ESRS E1-6 44, 46d ; ESRS ­E1-6 48 a,b, 49 a,b, 52 a,b,­ 51, AR43c, AR45e, AR46j Table 22 : Désagrégation des émissions de GES par segment d’activité Disaggregation of 2024 GHG emissions by business segment Unit Construction and Renovation segment Real Estate Develop­ ment segment Multitechnics segment Investment and Holdings segment Total gross GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 market based tCO2eq 6,530.58 53.81 6,518.67 87.51 Total significant gross Scope 3 GHG emissions tCO2eq 337,228.42 36,513.53 108,564.46 Non-material Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 market based tCO2eq 343,759.00 36,567.34 115,083.13 Non-material ESRS E1-6 AR 41 Scope 1 – direct emissions Direct emissions are reported according to the GHG protocol and are calculated for all Group activities. The Holdings and Invest­ ment segment, of which CFE does not exercise exclusive control, only takes into account emissions linked to the head office. Emis­ sions come mainly from the fleet (cars, vans and trucks) and energy (gas and fuel oil) used on construction sites and at the Group’s various headquarters. The fleet alone accounts for 74% of these emissions. The emission factors used to calculate Scope 1 direct emissions are taken from the database www.CO2emissiefactoren.be. This database is regularly updated, and the factors taken into account relate to the year 2024. ESRS E1-6 AR39 b The accuracy level is 100% based on primary data. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c Scope 2 – indirect emissions Scope 2 emissions, as reported according to the GHG protocol, are calculated for all group activities, with the exception of the In­ vestments and Holdings segment, for which CFE does not have operational management. They include indirect GHG emissions mainly arising from the production of electricity purchased and consumed by CFE and its subsidiaries. Scope 2 emissions based on location are calculated by multiplying purchased electricity volumes by the emission factors specific to each country. To calculate Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions using the market-based approach, CFE relies on green electricity contracts as the contractual instruments for the electricity purchased. In total, CFE’s commitment is reflected in the fact that 73% of the kWh purchased and con­ sumed uses green electricity. This percentage of green electricity corresponds fully to combined contractual instruments. Percentage of contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy grouped with attributes concerning energy gener­ ation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions. 73% Percentage of contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy attribute claims not grouped in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions. 0% ESRS E1-6 45d The emission factors used to calculate emissions from electricity used in Belgium come from the www.CO2emissiefactoren.be data­ base and from www.aib-net.org. The emission factors used to calculate emissions from the energy mix in Poland, Luxembourg and Germany come from the www.aib-net.org database. Finally, the emission factors used to calculate emissions from location-based electricity in Poland, Luxembourg and Germany come from the Statista database. These databases are regularly updated, and the factors taken into account relate to the year 2024, or the most recent values if those for 2024 are not available. ESRS E1-6 AR39b The accuracy level is estimated at 100% based on primary data. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 105 Scope 3 – indirect emissions Scope 3 emissions are reported according to the GHG protocol, with the Scope 3 inventory divided into 15 categories. CFE plans to gradually improve the accuracy of the values reported for Scope 3. 2024 is considered a reference year for determin­ ing a base value on which CFE can set its decarbonisation targets. In 2024, CFE will only report on those categories of scope 3 that are material, i.e. whose value is greater than 1% of the total value of scope 3. The calculation method used in 2024 means that the categories ‘Upstream transportation and distribution’ and ‘end-of-life treat­ ment of sold products’ are already included in the ‘Purchased goods and services’ category. This is due to the fact that almost all the emission factors used in category 1 concern full EPDs integrating the end of the production cycle and transportation of products. This methodology is applied to avoid double counting. Next year this figure will be disaggregated as far as possible to reflect a cor­ rect allocation, in order to be fully aligned with the GHG Protocol. ESRS E1-6 AR 46 i, 46 h The following relevant categories have been identified at this stage as material in line with the methods used to estimate emissions: • Category 1: Purchased goods and services: This category mainly concerns emissions linked to the manufacture and use of materials in projects carried out by the Group. In 2024, the calculation method used is as follows. CFE has listed the types of materials which, according to recent studies in the sector, account for the largest share of emissions linked to their production (around 80%). CFE then inventoried all the expenses linked to these materials and services. Finally, the selected expenditure is multiplied by the corresponding generic emission factors. These emission factors are taken from generic EPDs. • Category 2: Capital goods: The starting point for this category is the CFE balance sheet. Capital goods are classified under ‘property, plant and equipment’. This section can be divided into the following categories: • Land - Buildings - Equipment - Vehi­ cles. Each of these categories is associated with a CAPEX value, which is multiplied by a corresponding generic emission factor. These emission factors are taken from generic EPDs. • Category 11: Use of sold products: This concerns energy consumption for the next 50 years in buildings developed by BPI Real Estate, and in buildings for which an ESCO-type contract has been signed with Vmanager. The basis for calculating scope 3 is directly linked to the provisional EPB of the buildings under construction. Non-material categories: 3. Fuel and energy-related activities, 5. Waste generated in operations, 6. Business travel, 7. Employee commuting, 15. Investments. Categories accounted for elsewhere: 4. Upstream transportation and distribution is included in category 1. Purchased goods and services, 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products is recorded in category 1. Purshased goods and services Categories that do not apply to CFE activities: 8. Upstream leased assets, 9. Downstream transportation and distribution, 10. Process­ ing of sold products, 13. Downstream leased assets and 14. Franchises. ESRS E1-6, AR 46 i The Scope 3 figures disclosed should be considered as initial estimates, mainly based on expenditure data or provisional EPB. This results in 0% primary data. These estimates are subject to subsequent adjustments. More granular activity data will be implemented over the coming years. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c, E1-6, AR 46 g The conversion factors used for categories 1 and 2 come either from generic EPDs, or from material-specific databases. These are ADEME, INIES and Climatiq. For concrete materials, the EPDs used come from Fedbeton. For category 11, the conversion factors used are the same as those used to calculate location based on scopes 1 and 2. ESRS E1-6 AR39 b Scope 3 emissions are calculated and reported for the first time in 2024. There are no changes in scope or method to report for Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are presented for the first time in 2024, distinguishing between “market-based” and “location-based” values. In the past, only market-based values were reported. There are no events to report that could have had a significant impact on the values reported. ESRS E1-6 47, 42c 2.2.5.2 GHG intensity based on net revenues Carbon intensity is calculated by dividing the quantity of CO2 produced by the consolidated turnover of the past year for all CFE and subsidiary activities. ESRS E1-6 53, 55 & AR55 This calculation method differs from that used in previous years. The relative emissions previously reported were calculated by Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 106 taking into account only direct emissions from Scope 1 and indirect emissions from Scope 2, as well as turnover from “productive” activities, i.e. those responsible for these emissions (Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments only). From this year onwards, indirect scope 3 emissions are also taken into account. It is therefore more consistent to use consolidated turnover as the divisor. This value is identical to the turnover figure in the financial statement. Table 23 : GHG emissions intensity Datapoints 2024 Reference Intensity of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by net income Location-based (tCO2eq/M€) 12.48 Market based (tCO2eq/M€) 11.16 Intensity of Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by net income Location-based (tCO2eq/€M) 420.47 ESRS E1-6 53 Market based (tCO2eq/€M) 419.14 ESRS E1-6 53 The table below shows a reconciliation with net income on the income statement. ESRS E1-6 AR 55 Table 24: Net income used for intensity calculations Revenue reconciliation 2024 Reference Net income used to calculate GHG intensity (€) 1,182,169,203.98 Other revenue (€) - Total net income (as stated in the financial declaration)(€) 1,182,169,203.98 ESRS E1-6 AR55 2.2.6. E1-7: GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits CFE has no disposal or storage of GHGs resulting from projects developed as part of its own activities or to which it has contributed in their upstream and downstream value chain. In addition, there are no GHG emission reductions or removals taken into account in the GHG emissions disclosed from climate change mitigation projects outside their value chain, which they have financed or intend to finance through the purchase of carbon credits. ESRS E1-7 2.2.7. E1-8: Internal carbon pricing CFE does not have internal, structured carbon pricing systems to support decision-making or incentivise the implementation of climate-related policies and objectives. ESRS E1-8 2.2.8. E1-9: Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities In 2024, guidelines for Group companies were drawn up in collaboration with other AvH Group companies to define climate risks (both physical and transitional) and identify opportunities. Pilot projects were carried out with an external consultant to gain a better understanding of the data requirements needed to translate climate risks into monetary value. An initial analysis of CFE’s activities has shown that, generally speaking, they do not present any physical climatic risks. Indeed, CFE is a company with a limited number of physical assets (such as buildings, machinery or land). The risk of these assets be­ ing exposed to the physical risks associated with natural disasters (floods, storms, etc.) which could damage them is not very material. Our business model is based on carrying out and selling projects rather than owning and operating physical assets, so physical risks are considerably reduced. ESRS E1-9 66a,b,c,d, ESRS E1-9 AR70ci, ESRS E1-9 AR69a,b With regard to transition risks, the complementary analysis exercise is still ongoing. CFE will therefore be gradually introducing infor­ mation on this subject. From the next reporting year onwards, qualitative information will be provided, and by the year ending 31 December 2027, a mone­ tary impact should be reported. Phase in requirements for ESRS E1-9 67, 68,69 & AR 72,73 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 111 Secondly, CFE insists on sharing experience and best practices, as well as analysing all incidents, in order to drive all BUs to the top. ESRS S1-4 36, 37, 38, 39, 42 3.1.6.4 Taking coactivity into account On its construction projects, CFE has numerous co-activities with subcontractors or third parties. It is therefore essential that the same vigilance and respect for the rules be applied in the same way to our own workforce as to other project participants. For this reason, the number of accidents involving subcontractors is also monitored. This point is covered in more detail in the next chapter. 3.1.6.5 Financial impact of actions taken The actions undertaken consist mainly of management (local prevention advisers in the Business Units and head of safety), training and communication, and specific resources to ensure day-to-day safety on site. For this last point, an evaluation of costs is always carried out during the project submission phase and is then incorporated into the commercial offer submitted to the customer. All safety-related costs (direct and indirect) are included in “operating costs” as presented in the Financial Report on page 162. To date, the granularity of financial information is not yet sufficient to provide reliable quantitative values. Further details will be provid­ ed from 2025 onwards. ESRS S1-4 43 3.1.7. S1-5 Objectives In its health and safety policy, CFE is committed to zero accidents. Its communication campaign is called GO FOR ZERO. This objec­ tive applies not only to all CFE workers, but also to anyone else working on our sites. Nevertheless, with this ambition in mind, CFE has decided to set ambitious but realistic targets for 2030. CFE has therefore set itself the target of achieving a maximum severity rate of 0.52 by 2030. This objective has been defined with the aim of halving average sector values (source: Fedris). Internal annual targets were therefore set using a linear regression starting from the reference value, the 2021 frequency rate, which was 0.69. The severity rate target (= number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of hours worked) concerns only acci­ dents involving the CFE group’s own workforce. The ambition was set on the basis of sector results for 2021 (source Fedris.be), with the aim of being at least twice as good as the sector (and therefore having a severity rate equivalent to half the sector severity rate). ESRS S1-5 46 The ambition level and quantitative target for the severity rate were decided by the Executive Committee after validation of this proposal by the Safety Board. ESRS S1-5 47 Safety dashboards constantly show whether or not the annual targets set for each BU are being met. In addition to these external objectives, internal targets are also monitored. Proactive objectives are favoured, such as tracking inci­ dents and near-misses, the number of toolbox meetings held, and the number of visits made by management. All BU management committees have permanent access to these dashboards. ESRS S1-5 47 3.1.8. S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s workforce The table in this section gives an overview of the workforce at the end of the reference period, 31 December 2024. The table only includes workers considered as own employees and not yet non-salaried employees included in own staff (in accordance with the phasing-in provision). The figures published only include CFE and its BUs, and do not include data from the Investments and Holdings segment, which are outside the scope of reporting. ESRS S1-6 49,ESRS S1-6 50 dii Table 26 : Number of employees by type of contract Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 112 Number of employees by type of contract Open-ended contract Fixed-term con­ tract Zero-hours con­ tract Total 2022 2,937 137 0 3,074 2023 2,822 168 0 2,990 2024 2,712 142 0 2,854 Among the 142 workers on fixed-term contracts, 7 are on work-study contracts. Table 27 : Number of employees by type Number of women and men Total #Women %Women #Men %Men 2022 3,074 487 15.8% 2,587 84.2% 2023 2,990 487 16.3% 2,503 83.7% 2024 2,854 476 16.7% 2,378 83.3% ESRS S1-6 50 a,b CFE has a total of 2,854 workers. Of these, 2,282 are based in Belgium, 210 in Luxembourg and 359 in Poland. ESRS S1-6 51 Figures are given by headcount and not by FTE. Information on workers and their contracts comes from the social secretariats. This data is consolidated in a single HR management dashboard. In Belgium, the various Group entities have a single social secretariat for all 2,282 employees, which guarantees the reliability and robustness of the data. In Luxembourg and Poland, there is also a social secretariat for each country. Non-employees, on the other hand, are not taken into account. It’s not material. Nevertheless, reporting systems will be further de­ veloped and enhanced in the future to provide greater granularity. ESRS S1-6 50 di At the end of December 2024, the Group’s staff turnover (by headcount) for the year was 13.10%. This corresponds to 374 leavers. ESRS S1-6 50 c All the above-mentioned HR indicators have remained relatively stable over the past 3 years. ESRS S1-6 50 e 3.1.9. S1-11 Social protection In accordance with current European and local legislation, all CFE group workers benefit from social protection in the event of illness or accident on site or on the way to or from work. ESRS S1-11 3.1.10. S1-13 Training and skills development Training and skills development are offered through training plans, coaching, career plans, and so on. These plans focus on both non-technical and technical skills, to facilitate the maintenance of skilled employment. At the end of 2022, CFE launched its “CFE academy”. It is an online training platform that allows each employee to find customised training courses, both in terms of content and format. The digital approach (while keeping the option of attending face-to-face training) allows for greater flexibility for employees to train when it suits them best. Specific health and safety training sessions are organised, for example, when employees are hired, when they arrive on site, at monthly toolbox meetings and during dedicated “safety days”. The number of training hours within CFE and its BUs is monitored through the CFE Academy program. This data is measured as a total and by gender. However, it is not listed by worker category. This data will not be published until next year, in the 2025 report. Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 b A new programme to digitise the performance appraisal process will make it possible to measure the percentage of workers who have taken part in the appraisal. It will be deployed in 2025. This data will therefore not be published until the next report 2025. Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 a, 84, 85 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 113 3.1.11. S1-14 Health and safety metrics Since safety is a major concern, CFE has developed QHSE dashboards to keep close track of the trend in the figures and to take the necessary remedial action as soon as possible. The severity rate (one of the traditional security indicators) was chosen to be one of the KPI’s governing our sustainability linked loans with the banks. The dashboards, which contain the main information for each subsidiary, are updated at least once a month to keep track of the safety data. They include traditional safety information (frequency and severity rates etc.) but also indicators of proactive safety actions (toolbox meetings, management involvement, taking into account incidents and feedback, etc.). This data covers 100% of the Group’s own workers. This does not include self-employed workers, temporary staff or subcontractors. The monitoring of this data follows the rules prescribed by ISO 9001 and the Belgian legal definitions for safety indicators: • Frequency rate = number of lost-time accidents x 1 million divided by the number of working hours. • Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of working hours. • A lost-time accident is an accident in the workplace resulting in at least one day’s incapacity, not including the day of the acci­ dent. • An accident without incapacity is an accident that does not result in incapacity for work beyond the day of the accident. • A first aid accident is an accident requiring only first aid on the spot. These are not included in this report. • Recordable incidents are the sum of lost-time accidents and accidents without incapacity (excluding first-aid). • The frequency rate is calculated as follows: number of lost-time accidents x 1,000,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The severity rate is calculated as follows: Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The recordable incident rate is calculated as follows: number of recordable incidents x 1,000,000 divided by number of hours worked. ESRS S1-14 87 Table 28: Data on accidents involving our own workforce 2022 2023 2024 % of workers included in the health and safety risk management 100 100 100 Number of work-related fatalities (own workforce) 0 0 0 Number of work-related fatalities (subcontractor or third party) 1 1 0 Number of recordable accidents (excluding first aid) 145 139 115 Number of lost-time accidents 93 77 64 Frequency rate 21.96 18.47 15.34 Severity rate 0.72 0.68 0.56 Recordable accident rate NC NC 27.55 Number of cases of illness directly linked to work 0 0 0 Number of days lost due to an accident at work 3,050 2,847 2,321 The number of accidents reported and the number of days lost correspond to data recorded and validated by insurers for Belgium and Luxembourg. In Poland, on the other hand, accidents and their consequences are recorded in national records. This information is therefore robust, complete and reliable. ESRS S1-14 88 The safety of subcontractors is also taken into account in a specific dashboard (see chapter 3.2.7). 3.1.11.1 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts No offences or complaints of discrimination or failure to respect human rights were recorded in 2024. No fines have been reapplied either. ESRS S1-17 3.2. ESRS S2: Workers in the value chain This analysis focuses specifically on subcontractors rather than the entire value chain of a construction project. The main reason is that the value chain in this sector is often very long and fragmented, involving many different players with varying roles. Further­ more, there is not always direct contact with the lower links in this chain, which makes it difficult to assess all the potential risks and impacts in a comprehensive and accurate way. By focusing on subcontractors, who are key partners and directly involved in site operations, it is possible to implement more targeted and effective safety measures, ensuring better management of material risks and a significant improvement in working conditions. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 114 3.2.1. SBM2 Interests and views of stakeholders Collaboration and dialogue with subcontractors are essential elements of CFE’s group strategy. We consider them as important as our own workforce. By fostering open, ongoing communication, we ensure that subcontractors are fully integrated into our process­ es and share our safety and quality objectives. This collaborative approach strengthens relationships based on trust, improves co­ ordination on construction sites and ensures that everyone works together harmoniously and efficiently. By valuing the contributions of subcontractors and treating them as key partners, we create a safer, more productive working environment for all. ESRS 2 SBM-2 3.2.2. SBM3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model The DMA exercise (chap 1.5.1) has demonstrated that health and safety are material sub-themes for CFE and its subcontractors. In particular, there is a significant risk of negative impact, as accidents can occur on site, leading to serious incapacity, permanent after-effects and even death. The heart of CFE’s business happens on the construction sites. The work is carried out by CFE’s own workers or by subcontractors. At present, there’s no way of carrying out these projects without manpower. Every effort must therefore be made to limit these risks. CFE considers that it is just as important to fight to limit safety risks on site for its own workforce as for subcontractors, since every human being deserves to be treated equally in the face of danger. The analysis carried out in chapter 3.1.2 therefore also covers the entire value chain. ESRS S2-SBM-3 11 a,c 3.2.3. S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers CFE has adopted a series of policies that apply both to its own workforce and to the various parties involved on site. These include the Human Rights Policy and the QHSE Policy. These documents are described in detail in chapter 3.1.3. A Code of Conduct for commercial partners has also been drawn up. It includes an obligation to comply with the internal Code of Conduct, and in particular to respect the safety rules set out in the QHSE policy. The obligation to comply with local and European laws and regulations, as well as with the aforementioned policies, are an integral part of the contractual clauses for sub-contractors. ESRS S2-16, 17, 18, 19 3.2.4. S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts Ongoing dialogue with the various parties involved on our worksites is a priority, and this primarily concerns safety. The onboarding of all subcontractors is formalised by means of a short training session introducing the site, the contact persons and the specific rules relating to the project. It is vital to ensure that everyone can identify the various stakeholders involved, and knows who to contact in the event of any problems. The site manager will ensure that all this information is understood by providing training in a language that the workers understand. Each team should have a manager who speaks one of the project’s national languages, to ensure that he or she can communicate with the site management teams at all times. Formal meetings are held at least once a week with subcontractors working on the site. To ensure that these meetings run smoothly, team leaders from the various subcontractors represent their companies. These meetings are followed by a clear report setting out the actions to be taken by the various parties involved, an update on the schedule and an overview of the phases to come. A LEAN and collaborative approach is adopted on all projects. Engagement with the value chain on worksites on safety issues, using a LEAN approach, is essential to ensure a safe and efficient working environment. Secondly, value chain mapping enables us to analyse each stage of the construction process, from design to delivery, and detect critical points where safety incidents may occur. A culture of safety must be established, with visible leadership where managers set the example by respecting and valuing safety practices and open communication. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation of safety performance, through key indicators and regular site visits, ensures compliance with standards and identifies areas for improvement. By integrating these LEAN principles into worksite safety management, it is possible to create a safer, more efficient and more col­ laborative working environment. The key lies in the commitment of all players in the value chain and in a culture of continuous im­ provement. Penalties are foreseen and communicated for any worker who does not respect the safety rules in force on projects. ESRS S2-2 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 115 3.2.5. S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns To remedy negative impacts on sites, it is essential to put in place a structured process and effective communication channels. This process begins with the identification and assessment of potential impacts. This includes carrying out risk analyses to identify potential hazards and assess their severity and probability. At the start of site activities, each subcontractor is required to share this specific risk analysis with the site management team, in order to analyse the resources to be implemented and responsibilities to­ gether. Once the impacts have been identified, preventive and/or corrective measures must be implemented. This can include modifying work procedures, improving safety equipment, or training workers to better manage identified risks. It is crucial to document these measures and ensure that they are clearly communicated to all team members. To enable workers in the value chain to voice their concerns, several communication channels need to be established: Onboarding new workers: This onboarding provides information and training for new workers on a project. In particular, the organi­ sational chart of site management and their contact details are provided to facilitate future exchanges. Regular meetings: Weekly safety meetings are organised on projects where workers can discuss safety issues and propose solu­ tions. Direct communication lines: Subcontractors are encouraged to communicate any concerns or comments directly with site teams as a matter of priority. Mobile applications: On most worksites, a mobile app enables workers to report incidents or concerns quickly and easily. Security representatives: The site’s QHSE manager, along with the entire site management team, makes regular visits to the site, enabling direct interaction with all those involved. It’s also important to create a safety culture where workers feel comfortable reporting problems without fear of reprisal. This is en­ couraged by visible, committed leadership that values and respects workers’ contributions to safety. Finally, it is essential to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the measures put in place, by tracking safety indicators. ESRS S2-3 27, 28 3.2.6. S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions Each project is unique and requires a specific risk analysis. This exercise must be carried out both by the project management team and by subcontractors. This analysis must be carried out before work begins, to enable a dialogue with the project’s management teams and to validate the most suitable working methods for limiting risks together. Scheduling will also be defined in such a way as to keep co-activities between workers to a minimum. Weekly site meetings allow us to see whether or not we need to adapt or correct the chosen work methods. Everyone involved in a project is jointly responsible for their own safety and that of others. On the other hand, subcontracting agree­ ments specify in detail the roles and responsibilities of all parties involved. Among other things, it defines who is responsible for the breakdown and maintenance of collective protection equipment. Each subcontractor is responsible for his or her own personal protective equipment. On the other hand, the site management team will ensure that each employee uses the equipment correctly. The site management team will ensure that a responsible, collaborative and respectful site culture is in place. This working atmos­ phere facilitates communication and a genuine safety culture. Regular checks are carried out on site by the BU’s QHSE manager and by management teams. These visits enable us to identify safety shortcomings and correct them as quickly as possible. These visits are always accompanied by a visit report to ensure that every remark has been addressed. Control also involves regular monitoring and communication of safety indicators. A specific monthly dashboard also includes the number of incidents and accidents involving subcontractors. The management team will also ensure that subcontracting teams receive the necessary training. In the event of failure to comply with the established rules, penalties are applied. In the event of serious misconduct, the person responsible will be asked to leave the site with immediate effect and will not be allowed to return. CFE also monitors the company’s track record in terms of safety compliance and safety culture, and takes this into account when selecting subcontractors. CFE is not aware of any serious human rights problems or incidents linked to the upstream or downstream value chain (other than the site accidents listed in the following chapter). Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 116 All these actions do not represent any particular cost. In fact, most of these actions are already taken for own workers and are therefore already accounted for in chapter 3.1.6. ESRS S2-4 3.2.7. S2-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities At this stage, no quantifiable annual target has been set. Nevertheless, the overall objective is the same as for own workforce, i.e. to aim for zero accidents. ESRS S2-5 41 To this end, the number of work-related, lost-time accidents is monitored for all subcontractors working on our projects. This infor­ mation forms part of the safety dashboard presented to the Executive Committee on a monthly basis. Table 29: Subcontractor accident data 2022 2023 2024 Number of work-related fatalities (subcontractor or third party) 1 1 0 Number of accident with incapacity of subcontractors 29 30 35 ESRS S2-5 40 This data should be treated with great caution, as they are supplied by the subcontractors themselves, and their quality or com­ pleteness cannot be guaranteed. It is not possible to measure the frequency or severity rate for subcontractors, as these calcu­ lations would require knowing the number of days of incapacity and the number of hours worked by each subcontractor, but this data is not communicated to the general contractor. Please note that this data is limited to Tier 1 (subcontractors). Given the extent and complexity of the value chain, it is currently not physically possible to extend data collection to the lower levels of the chain (suppliers, manufacturers, etc.). Nevertheless, CFE is continuing to develop more robust processes for collecting value chain infor­ mation. At this stage, subcontractors are not involved in defining the target. This is mainly due to the size and complexity of the value chain involved in CFE projects. The global ambition for continuous improvement in terms of safety is a concern for the entire value chain. CFE and its various BUs actively participate in the ADEB-VBA Safety Board, where examples of best practices are shared and sec­ tor-specific projects initiated. ESRS S2-5 42 4. GOVERNANCE INFORMATION 4.1. ESRS2 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities The double materiality exercise shown in chapter 1.5.1. also shows that the topics of corporate culture, whistleblower protection and corruption and bribery (combined in a “business conduct and compliance with the law” theme) are not material, which might seem surprising at first glance. The same applies to the theme of partnership, which covers such topics as supplier relations and payment practices etc. Nevertheless, CFE is committed to respecting these rules of business conduct as well as all stakeholders. The Group’s SPARC strat­ egy calls on us to “Perform” by aiming for excellence in our processes and risk management (the “P”), and to place people and the community at the heart of all our activities (the “C”). Consequently, compliance with the highest standards of probity and business integrity, as well as respect for human rights, are an integral part of the Group’s strategy. 4.2. Policies on responsible business culture All these rules and measures are set out in the “Code of Conduct” and the “Business Integrity Policies” manual. Both documents are available to all employees on the Group intranet. The code of conduct is also available on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe). CFE also ensures that its entire value chain respects these rules. The rules and measures are set out in the “Business integrity policies for commercial partners” manual. The obligation to comply with these rules and measures is an integral part of the contracts we sign with our various business partners. This obligation applies equally to responsible business culture, social and environmental issues. ESRS G1-2 15a, ESRS G1-2 15b Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 117 Finally, specific policies on human rights and data protection, as well as procedures in the event of personal data breaches and data leaks, are available on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe) and on the intranet. All these documents have been validated by the various administrative, management and supervisory bodies. At Executive Com­ mittee level, responsibility for business culture issues is assumed by the Group’s General Secretary, who is a permanent guest. The expertise of the various members of the administrative and supervisory bodies can be found in the chapter on the “Corporate Gov­ ernance Statement”. The roles and responsibilities of each body are also set out in the Corporate Governance Charter, also availa­ ble on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe). ESRS G1.GOV-1_5a, ESRS G1.GOV-1_5b In particular, the “Business Integrity Policies” manual includes the following policies: • Gifts and entertainment policy • Policy on political involvement • Antitrust policy • International sanctions policy • Conflict of interest policy • Policy against bribery and corruption The Code of Conduct, while not exhaustive, deals with a set of general principles and ethical guidelines that can be applied at dif­ ferent levels of the Group and within the various Business Units. These include (among others): • Protecting teams and partners • diversity, equal opportunity and non-discrimination • health and safety • respect and freedom from harassment • data privacy • Ethical business conduct (this refers to the rules set out in the specific “Business Integrity Policies” manual described above) • Financial integrity • Themes relating to the environment, sustainability and respect for human rights and communities These various policies respect the International Bill of Human Rights (United Nations), the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (International Labour Organization) and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Respect for the human rights of every individual is essential to CFE and lies at the heart of our fundamental values. We respect and protect human rights and take care not to exploit anyone, wherever we work in the world. Everyone we do business with is held to the same standards. We will never tolerate slavery, child labour, forced or compulsory labour, or trafficking in human beings. We respect the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our human rights policy is aligned with our Code and is overseen by CFE’s legal and human resources departments. In particular, as part of its human rights policy (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe), CFE is committed to respecting the eight fundamental ILO conventions. Specific policies on safety and diversity have also been implemented and communicated to all employees. 4.3. Specific objectives and monitoring of these policies The “code of conduct” and the various “business integrity policies” were completely revised in 2024. These documents are available on the intranet. To ensure knowledge and understanding of the rules contained therein, an online training cycle, which is mandatory for all employees, was rolled out during the last quarter of 2024 concerning the “Code of Conduct”, “Business Integrity Policies” and “Human Rights Policy”. ESRS G1-1 9, ESRS G1-1 10g, ESRS G1-3 20, 21a, 21b, 21c Alongside this training cycle, specific training courses and communication campaigns on cybersecurity, safety and diversity are also organised annually. Each entity regularly undergoes an analysis of risks and procedures by the internal audit unit. Internal audit is an independent func­ tion, and its main task is to support management and help it improve the management of risks. Internal audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee of CFE by submitting the annual audit plan and presenting the main findings of the audits carried out and a follow-up of the action plans. If necessary, additional audit assignments may be carried out at the request of the Audit Committee or of the Executive Committee of CFE. Employees are expected to be vigilant about the risks to which our Group could be exposed in the course of its activities. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 118 Any behaviour perceived (or suspected) to be unethical or illegal must be disclosed or reported without delay so that CFE can in­ vestigate promptly and take appropriate action. CFE encourages open dialogue and transparency regarding ethical concerns and potential violations of the “Code of Conduct”. Employees are encouraged to report any suspected violations, starting with the usual reporting channels including, but not limited to, reporting to their team leader, manager, any other responsible person, the HR Department and the Group Compliance Depart­ ment. Reports can be made in any language and are confidential. All reports will be promptly and thoroughly investigated, and appropriate corrective action will be taken as necessary. As an alternative, employees may also report ethical concerns or viola­ tions of this Code of Conduct through CFE’s whistleblowing tool. A simplified procedure (infographic) has been communicated to all employees. Use of the CFE alert tool is also part of the training cycle. ESRS G1-1_10a, ESRS G1-1_10c, ESRS G1-3_18a No violations were recorded at 2024. No fines have been imposed either. Nevertheless, the Belgian judicial authorities are currently conducting an investigation into alleged criminal acts relating to the con­ struction of the Grand Hotel in N’Djamena, Chad. As a reminder, this contract, which dates back to 2011, resulted in a loss of more than EUR 50 million for CFE, due to the non-payment of part of its receivables. The work was carried out by CFE Tchad, a Group sub­ sidiary until its sale in 2021. As part of this investigation, a search was carried out at CFE’s head office on 4 September 2024. In addition, several members of management and the Board of Directors, as well as former employees of the CFE group, were interviewed. However, at the date of this report, CFE has not yet had access to the investigation file and no charges have been brought against CFE or its current man­ agers and/or directors, nor, to its knowledge, against former employees of the CFE group. CFE is cooperating fully with the current investigation. In the current circumstances and in light of the above, CFE is unable to reliably estimate the financial consequences of this ongoing procedure. Consequently, no provision has been recognised as at 31 December 2024, in accordance with the provisions of IAS 37. ESRS G1-4_01, ESRS G1-4_02 5. ANNEXES 5.1. Annex 1: Glossary and abbreviations • ADEB/ VBA (Association des Entrepreneurs Belges de Grands Travaux, Belgian Association of Major Works Contractors): An organisation that represents and defends the interests of the major construction companies in Belgium. • BA4SC: Oragnisation promoting sustainable and innovative practices in the construction sector • BACA (Belgian Alliance for Climate Action): a platform for Belgian organisations that want to reduce their GHG emissions, show climate ambition and use SBTi (Science Based Targets initiative) to define their goals. • BD (Business Division): Intermediate structure grouping together Business Units (BU’s) under the same management within a Business Segment (BS). • BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method): international sustainability benchmark and standard for the optimal realisation (new construction) or renovation (buildings in use) and exploitation of buildings with a minimal environmental impact, based on scientifically substantiated sustainability metrics and indices encompassing a range of environmental issues, such as energy and water use assessment, the impact on health and well-being, pollution, transport, materials, waste, ecology and management processes. • BS (Business segment): Reporting structure grouping together BD’s and BU’s active in the same sector. • BU (Business unit): Any organisation with resources, staff and capital whose activity is concentrated on a single integrated core business in a given territory. • Circularity: This means reusing raw materials, components and products after their useful life in order to preserve their value. • CO2PL (CO2 Prestatie Ladder): The CO2PL (CO2 Performance Ladder) is a sustainability management tool that helps compa­ nies and governments reduce their CO2 emissions and costs. It operates as a certification and management scheme, encour­ aging organisations to adopt more sustainable practices and reduce their carbon footprint across their operations and supply chain. • Corporate governance: Corporate governance refers to the system of rules, practices and processes by which a company is managed and monitored. • CPPT (Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work): It is a consultative body within Belgian companies with at least 50 employees. Its main task is to actively contribute to improving the well-being of employees in the performance of their work. This includes aspects such as health, safety, ergonomics, hygiene at work, psychosocial aspects and making the workplace attractive. • CSRD (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive): EU legislation on ESG disclosure to come into force from 2024. This di­ rective modernises and strengthens the rules governing the environmental and social information on which companies must report. The new rules will provide investors and other stakeholders with the information they need to assess the impact of com­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 119 panies on people and the environment, as well as to evaluate the financial risks and opportunities arising from climate change and other sustainability issues. • DMA (Double Materiality Assessment): assesses both the impact of the company’s activities on the environment and society (from the inside out, impact materiality) and the impact of environmental and social issues on the company’s financial perfor­ mance (from the outside in, financial materiality). • DEI (Diversity, Equity & Inclusion): This concerns the involvement of different points of view and the avoidance of discrimina­ tion, by promoting diversity in various areas, such as gender, religious beliefs and origins, as well as the implementation of a policy of inclusion. • DNSH (Do No Significant Harm): The concept of “Do No Significant Harm” (DNSH) is used in the EU Taxonomy as one of the con­ ditions for classifying an activity as “green”. This means that an economic activity must not only make a substantial contribu­ tion to one or more environmental objectives, but must also not cause significant harm to any of these objectives. • eNPS (employee Net Promoter Score): This is an indicator used to measure the likelihood of your employees recommending your organisation as a place to work. To calculate the eNPS, employees are asked the following question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, how likely are you to recommend our company as a good place to work?” The responses are then classified into three catego­ ries: • Detractors (scores from 0 to 6): employees who are not very satisfied and would not recommend the company. • Passive (scores of 7 to 8): employees who are satisfied but not enthusiastic, and who would not actively recommend the company. • Promoters (scores of 9 to 10): very satisfied employees who would actively recommend the company. The eNPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of detractors from the percentage of promoters, giving a score between -100 and 100. • EPB (Energy Performance of Buildings): This refers to the efficiency with which buildings use energy. • EPD (Environmental Product Declaration): Standardised document providing detailed information on the environmental im­ pact of a product throughout its life cycle. • ESG ( Environment, Social and Governance): This is a set of criteria used to assess a company’s sustainability and ethical impact • ESG (Policy): Statement setting out the company’s approach to environmental, social and governance issues, as well as the plan for achieving this, and the indicators used to measure progress. • ESRS (European Sustainability Reporting Standards): Companies subject to the CSRD will have to report in accordance with the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). Standards are adapted to EU policies, while drawing on and contribut­ ing to international standardisation initiatives. • EU Taxonomy: regulations that determine which investments can be classified as ‘green’ and which contribute to the realisa­ tion of the EU Green Deal. The classification is based on technical screening criteria (TSC) and minimum criteria to avoid signif­ icant harm (DNSH). • Frequency rate: The frequency rate measures the number of accidents at work resulting in at least one day’s absence from work per million hours worked. It is used to assess the degree to which employees are exposed to occupational risks. • GHG - scope 1: all direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company (e.g. fleet, fuel and natural gas combus­ tion). • GHG - scope 2: all indirect emissions from the production of electricity purchased by the company. Scope 2 emissions occur physically at the facility where the electricity is generated. • GHG - scope 2 location based: This method calculates emissions using the average emission factor of the electricity network where the energy is consumed. It reflects the average emissions intensity of local electricity networks • GHG- scope 2 market based: This method calculates emissions based on the electricity that organisations have chosen to purchase, often specified in contracts or instruments such as renewable energy certificates (RECs). It takes into account the company’s specific energy supply choices. • GHG – scope 3: indirect emissions from a company’s activities, such as emissions from the production of sourced products (upstream) or from products, services or projects sold by the company (downstream). • GHG protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol): A standardised global framework for measuring and managing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from private and public sector operations, value chains and mitigation actions. It provides the most widely used standards for GHG emissions accounting, helping companies, countries and cities to track their progress towards climate goals. • Human Rights: Rights as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • ILO (International Labour Organization) : This is a specialised agency of the United Nations. Its mandate is to promote social and economic justice by establishing international labour standards • IRO (Impact, Risks and Opportunities); • Impacts: The effects that the company’s activities have on the environment and society. • Risks: The potential threats facing the company, such as climate or financial risks. • Opportunities: Potential opportunities for development and innovation • JV (Joint Venture): This is a commercial partnership in which two or more companies join forces to carry out a joint project. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 120 • KPI (Key Performance Indicator): This is a a measure used to evaluate the efficiency of a company, a project or a specific process. • Limited assurance: Limited assurance is a form of audit in which the auditors provide a moderate opinion on a company’s financial or non-financial statements. This means that they have not obtained enough evidence to completely guarantee the veracity of the information, but they have carried out basic checks. • NACE code: This is a classification system for economic activities used in Europe • NFRD (Non-Financial Reporting Directive): The NFRD is a European directive that requires large companies to publish non-fi­ nancial information, such as their environmental, social and governance (ESG) impact. It aims to improve the transparency and accountability of companies. • NOSACQ (Nordic Occupational Safety Climate Questionnaire): NOSACQ-50 is a questionnaire used to assess the safety cli­ mate at work. It measures co-workers’ perceptions of security policies, procedures and practices in their organisation. • nZEB (nearly Zero Energy Buildings): A near-zero energy building (nZEB) is a building with a very high energy performance. • OECD: (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development): An intergovernmental organisation founded in 1961 to promote policies that improve the economic and social well-being of people throughout the world. • Reporting: Relates to financial and non-financial reporting, with a focus on the material themes identified in the DMA. • Risk management: Structured risk management- • SBM (Sustainable Business Model): A strategic approach that integrates environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria into the company’s activities and decisions. The aim is to create long-term value while minimising negative impacts on the environment and society. • SBTi (Science Based Targets initiative): an initiative that defines best practices in the area of GHG emissions reductions and targets in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement. • SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals): The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are a call to action to promote prosperity while protecting the planet from climate change. They encompass strategies that support economic growth and meet social needs. • Severity rate: The severity rate measures the seriousness of accidents at work in terms of the number of working days lost to temporary incapacity per thousand hours worked. • Sustainalytics: A company that researches and assesses the sustainability of listed companies, based on their environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. • TSC (Technical Screening Criteria): Technical selection criteria defined for each economic activity in the EU Taxonomy and used to determine whether a particular activity can be classified as “green”. • UPSI/VBS (Union professionnelle du secteur immobilier, professional union of the real estate sector): A Belgian organisation that represents the interests of real estate professionals. • Value chain: All activities and processes by which a company creates value for its customers. This includes all stages, from the sourcing of raw materials to the delivery of the final product or service to the customer. • Value Chain - upstream: This refers to the stages and activities that take place before a final product or service is produced. This includes all operations relating to the supply of raw materials, inbound logistics and the preparation processes required to start production. • Value Chain - downstream: This refers to the stages and activities that take place after the production of a final product or service. • Works Council: A works council is a staff representation body within a company. It results from the merger of staff delegates, the works council, the CHSCT (Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee) and trade union delegates Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 121 5.2. Annex 2: List of references ESRS 2 BP-1 5 a , ESRS 2 BP-1 5 b i  74 ESRS 2 BP-1 5 b ii  75 ESRS 2 BP-2 9 a , ESRS 2 BP-2 9 b  75 ESRS 2 BP-2 10 a, b, c & d , ESRS 2 BP-2 11 a, 11 b i & 11 b ii 76 ESRS 2 BP-2 16 76 ESRS 2 BP-2 17 77 ESRS 2 BP-2 13 a, b &c ; ESRS 2 ­BP-2 14 a, b & c 77 ESRS 2 BP-2 15 77 ESRS 2 GOV-5 ; ESRS 2 IRO-1 53 d,e,f 78 ESRS 2 GOV-4 79 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 a i,ii; ESRS 2 SBM-1 42 79 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 a iii 79 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 d 80 ESRS 2 SBM-1 42 a, b 80 ESRS 2 SBM-1 42 c 80 ESRS 2 SBM-1 42  80 ESRS 2 BP-1 5c 80 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a i 81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a 81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 b  81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a iv  81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a v 81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a 82 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a  82 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a ii  83 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a iii  83 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 c ii 83 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 d 83 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a v 84 ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 a 85 ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 a ;b; 48c I, ii, iii, iv; d; f; g; h  87 ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 e 87 ESRS 2 IRO-1 53 b,c,d,g 87 ESRS 2 IRO-1 53 a 88 ESRS 2 GOV-2 89 ESRS 2 GOV-1 & 3 89 ESRS E1 GOV-3 13 97 ESRS E1 SBM-3 18 97 ESRS E1 SBM-3 19c 98 ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 a, b , ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR7b 98 ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 c, ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR 8b 98 ESRS E1.IRO-1 20 a,b,c, AR 9 et AR12a 98 Phase in requirements for ESRS ­E1.IRO-1, ­AR 11 a, b, c & d, 21, AR 12 a, b, c & d, 21 et AR 15 98 ESRS E1-2 24, 25 98 ESRS E1-2 24 99 ESRS E1-1 16a 99 ESRS E1-1, 16 h & i 99 ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a 99 ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a,g 100 ESRS E1-4 33 100 ESRS E1-4 34b 100 ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j, ESRS E1-4 34f, 16b 101 ESRS E1-3 29 b 101 ESRS E1-3 29 b, ESRS E1-4 34 a,b 101 ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-4 33, ESRS E1-4 34b 101 ESRS E1-3 29 b 101 ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j 102 ESRS E1-4 34 a,b 102 ESRS E1-4 AR 25 a,b 102 ESRS E1-3 29 ci, ESRS E1-1 16c 103 ESRS E1-1 16 f; ESRS E1-3 29 c ii,16 c & c iii,16 c 103 ESRS E1-1 16 d 103 ESRS E1-1 16 g 104 ESRS E1-6 AR 39b 104 ESRS E1-6 50 104 ESRS E1-6 44, 46d ; ESRS ­E1-6 48 a,b, 49 a,b,  52 a,b,­ 51, AR43c, AR45e, AR46j 105 ESRS E1-6 AR 41 105 ESRS E1-6 AR39 b 105 ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c 105 ESRS E1-6 45d 105 ESRS E1-6 AR39b 105 ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c 106 ESRS E1-6 AR 46 i, 46 h 106 ESRS E1-6, AR 46 i 106 ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c, E1-6, AR 46 g 106 ESRS E1-6 AR39 b 106 ESRS E1-6 47, 42c 106 ESRS E1-6 53, 55 & AR55 107 ESRS E1-6 53 107 ESRS E1-6 53 107 ESRS E1-6 AR 55 107 ESRS E1-6 AR55 107 ESRS E1-7 107 ESRS E1-8 107 ESRS E1-9 66a,b,c,d, ESRS E1-9 AR70ci, ESRS E1-9 AR69a,b 107 Phase in requirements for ESRS E1-9 67, 68,69 & AR 72,73 108 ESRS E1-9 67e 108 ESRS 2 SBM-2 108 ESRS S1-SBM-3 109 ESRS S1-1 20 a, b, c, ESRS S1-1 21 109 ESRS S1-1 17,18,19, ESRS S1-1 23 110 ESRS S1-1 22 110 ESRS S1-1 24 a,b,c,d 110 ESRS S1-1 20b, ESRS S1-2 25, 26, 27 111 ESRS S1-3 31, 32 111 ESRS S1-3 32 111 ESRS S1-3 32 e 111 ESRS S1-3 33 111 ESRS S1-4 36, 37, 38, 39, 42 112 ESRS S1-4 43 112 ESRS S1-5 46 112 ESRS S1-5 47 112 ESRS S1-5 47 112 ESRS S1-6 49,ESRS S1-6 50 dii 112 ESRS S1-6 50 a,b 113 ESRS S1-6 51 113 ESRS S1-6 50 di 113 ESRS S1-6 50 c 113 ESRS S1-6 50 e 113 ESRS S1-11 113 Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 b 113 Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 a, 84, 85 113 ESRS S1-14 87 114 ESRS S1-14 88 114 ESRS S1-17 114 ESRS 2 SBM-2 115 ESRS S2-SBM-3 11 a,c 115 ESRS S2-16, 17, 18, 19 115 ESRS S2-2 115 ESRS S2-3 27, 28 116 ESRS S2-4 117 ESRS S2-5 41 117 ESRS S2-5 40 117 ESRS S2-5 42 117 ESRS G1-2 15a, ESRS G1-2 15b 117 ESRS G1.GOV-1_5a, ESRS G1.GOV-1_5b 118 ESRS G1-1 9, ESRS G1-1 10g, ESRS G1-3 20, 21a, 21b, 21c  118 ESRS G1-1_10a, ESRS G1-1_10c, ESRS G1-3_18a 119 ESRS G1-4_01, ESRS G1-4_02 119 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"* The main objective of the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) is to harmonize corporate sustainability reporting and improve the availability and quality of published ESG (environmental, social and governance) data. Isabelle De Bruyne : 2024 was an important year for the implementation of the CSRD framework and reporting throughout the CFE Group. Being a stock- quoted company, we have seized the opportunity of being one of the first in the sector to implement CSRD to further solidify our ESG leadership in everything we do. Last year we finished some large business projects that pushed the boundaries of what is feasible in terms of sustainability. Launched in 2024, we have started to consolidate all our sustainability expertise in the CFE Sustainability Knowledge Center which features a team of experts who support our clients and teams to drive sustainability, both in operations and business solutions. Also launched in 2024 is our new business initiative Pulse which aims to provide clients with an A-to-Z approach to revalorize their real estate, combining all the expertise the Group can offer. We continued to be very active in our sector fed­ erations to share our knowhow and drive positive change throughout the community. In the current challenging economic context, we remain convinced that the only resilient sustainable business is the one driving sustainability in the long run. Sustainability “We aim to make it as easy as possible for our clients to do sustainable business, by leveraging the strength of our ecosystem with partners and suppliers, and by bundling all the know-how of our different businesses into practical solutions to their challenges.” Isabelle De Bruyne, Chief Sustainability Officer Annual report 2024 22 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Looking beyond our core business, we were very glad to be supporting 62 non-profit organizations through our Heroes for Good Foundation. These associations are active in the domains of education, health and social justice, and have been submitted to our Foun­ dation by our own employees and workers. Isabelle De Bruyne : Moving forward, we believe that the huge potential of ambitious sustainable projects, such as the ones in our project pipeline, can only be realized by a fruitful collaboration within our eco­ system of clients, partners and suppliers. We aim to leverage the combined expertise of our own CFE businesses but also those of our long-time partners to develop smart total solutions for our clients. Our Sustainability Knowledge Center and our new busi­ ness Pulse will remain at the forefront of driving sus­ tainable business. Key in our sustainability approach is the CO2-Prestatieladder which our Belgian businesses are obtaining and have already obtained. We believe this is an important step in the government’s attempt to nudge businesses towards more sustainable solu­ tions. GLP logistics center Warsaw Annual report 2024 23 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
The greatest danger to our planet is the belief that someone else will change it. Robert Swan Annual report 2024 24 Message from the Chairman and CEO Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Our ambitions and achievements
"IT, digital & innovation “We are making selective investments in digitalization and innovation that deliver added value for our teams and our clients.” Hans Van Dromme, Chief Digital Officer Hans Van Dromme : In 2025, we will continue the roll­ out of ERP and prepare ourselves for the onboarding of our larger Construction & Renovation companies starting in 2026. Our transversal Innovation Board will continue the innovation roadmap and process - a series of pro­ jects in the domains of AI, predictive maintenance, and site energy monitoring a Powertrack system. Cyber security focus remains a priority in our Group. We are working on both end-user awareness and training, as well as technical and response capability in our IT Department and business departments. Hans Van Dromme : In 2024, the rollout of our new ERP platform progressed with the onboarding of the first few of our businesses. We launched multiple new transversal applications across the Group. We introduced a global talent management app for the whole Group, as well as the new Hello Heroes app, which connects all CFE employees and workers to keep them connected with each other and up to date with the latest news. For our project and site managers we introduced new applications for BIM viewing, safety management and quality control. We placed more focus on cyber security resilience, and we took further steps in the harmonization of our infrastructure and applications where possible across the Group. Hello Heroes App Annual report 2024 25 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Legal & Compliance We remain committed to further strengthening our Compliance and Ethics processes. While we ini­ tially focused on general policies for all levels of the organization, we plan to extend this in 2025 by imple­ menting function-specific policies and processes to ensure harmonization across the Group. The Legal Board will continue to evolve, with a focus on building greater agility. We aim to make it eas­ ier for legal experts to be deployed where needed, particularly during peak workloads or in high-priority matters. In Risk Management, we will raise the bar on assess­ ments to ensure we continue to enhance our pro­ cesses and adopt a proactive risk management approach, identifying and mitigating potential risks before they materialize. Philippine De Wolf : In 2024, we made significant strides in strengthening the Legal and Compliance function at Group level. One of our key achievements was the relaunch and harmonization of the Group’s Compliance program and procedures, which became a priority follow­ ing the demerger with DEME. This initiative included comprehensive training for the entire organization, designed to mitigate risks and enhance business integrity. We also introduced the transversal Legal Board in 2024, aimed at fostering greater synergy across the Group and providing stronger legal support to the business units. This is especially crucial for larger pro­ jects, where the legal aspect plays an increasingly vital role. Legal is now more integrated into the Risk Manage­ ment process, with representation in engagement committees for projects exceeding certain thresh­ olds. This ensures thorough risk assessments are conducted. “In an increasingly complicated legal environment, it is more important than ever to have an agile legal team that is a real business partner and is able to mitigate potential risks in advance without being a hurdle to business opportunities.” Philippine De Wolf, General Counsel Annual report 2024 26 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
Annual report 2024 - CFE 27 Management report Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 48 The Real Estate market remains disrupted in the short term, both in the residential and office sectors. BPI Real Estate is expected to post a positive net income in 2025, although the extent of this will depend on the strength and speed of the real estate market recovery in Belgium as in Luxembourg. VMA expects a stable activity level for 2025 combined with an improvement in operating margin. At MOBIX, the benefits of the diversification of its operations is set to intensify in 2025. The Construction & Renovation subsidiaries anticipate a decline in sales in 2025, given the persistently unsettled economic environ­ ment. Priority will be given to selectively taking on new orders and improving operating performance. CFE expects a moderate contraction in turnover in 2025 and net income close to that of 2024. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 49 III. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 1. Reference code With regard to corporate governance, this statement contains the information required by the Code of Companies and Associa­ tions (“CSA”), as well as by the Belgian Corporate Governance Code 2020 (“Code 2020”). CFE has adopted the 2020 Code as its code of reference and applies its recommendations in accordance with the “comply or ex­ plain” principle. The Company’s Corporate Governance Charter and Dealing Code can be consulted on the Company’s website www.cfe.be.www. cfe.be. This Corporate Governance Statement describes the composition of the CFE’s Board of Directors and its Committees, and how they operate. It comments on the practical application of CFE’s governance rules during the fiscal year ending 31 December 2024. It also specifies the provisions of the Code 2020 the Company does not comply with and explains these derogations. It also includes the remuneration policy and the remuneration report. Lastly, it reflects the main features of the Company’s internal control and risk management systems. 2. The Board of Directors and its Committees 2.1. Board of Directors The Company has opted for a single-tier structure. Consequently, the Board of Directors is responsible for the general conduct of the Company’s business and is accountable for its management in accordance with articles 7:93 and 7:94 of the CSA. The Board of Directors determines the direction of the Company’s activities, its strategy and key policies. It examines and approves related significant operations, ensures that they are properly executed and defines any measures needed to carry out its policies. It decides on the level of risk the Company is prepared to take. In particular, the Board of Directors: • approves the general internal control and risk management system and checks that this system is correctly implemented; • takes all measures needed to ensure the integrity of the financial statements; • supervises the activities of the auditor; • reviews the performance of the CEO and the Executive Committee, and • ensures that the special committees within the Board of Directors function properly and efficiently. 2.1.1. Members of the Board of Directors as of 31 December 2024 LUC BERTRAND Capacity Non-executive director - Chairman (since February 2016) Committees Chair of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since May 2021 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1951 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Luc Bertrand obtained a commercial engineering degree from KU Leu­ ven in 1971. He started his career at Bankers Trust, where he worked as Vice-President and Regional Sales Manager, Northern Europe. He was appointed director of Ackermans & van Haaren in 1985 and was chair­ man of the Executive Committee until 2016. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ackermans & van Haaren, DEME, SIPEF and JM Finn and a director of Delen Private Bank, Bank Van Breda (until 4 May 2023) and Verdant Bioscience. Luc Bertrand has extensive expertise in corporate governance. Having served on a number of audit and risk committees, he is well versed in risk management and internal control systems. He was also a founding member of Guberna, a Belgian institute that promotes sound governance, and for many years was Chairman of its Board and then Chairman of its Board of Trustees. He is also Chairman of the Institut de Duve and Middelheim Promotors, and a member of sever­ al other boards of non-profit associations and public institutions such as the Mayer van den Bergh Museum and Europalia. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 50 PIET DEJONGHE Capacity Non-executive director Committees Member of the Audit Committee (since June 2022) Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1966 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Piet Dejonghe received, after a degree in law (KU Leuven, 1989), a post­ graduate degree in management (KU Leuven, 1990) and an MBA from INSEAD (1993). He is co-CEO of Ackermans & van Haaren. Before joining them in 1995, he was a lawyer with A§O Shearman and a consultant with BCG. As a member of the investment team of Ackermans & Van Haaren, Piet Dejonghe participates in continuous training to identify ESG risks and opportunities and stays updated on ESG regulations. Piet Dejonghe is also a member of Ackermans & Van Haaren’s ESG steering committee, where he monitors and advises on Ackermans & Van Haaren’s ESG stra­ tegic priorities and progress. KOEN JANSSEN Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1970 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Koen Janssen received, after a degree in civil engineering and elec­ tromechanics (KU Leuven, 1993), an MBA from IEFSI (France, 1994). He worked for Recticel, ING Investment Banking and ING Private Equity before joining Ackermans & van Haaren in 2001. He is a member of the Exec­ utive Committee. Koen Janssen has expertise in, among other things, offshore energy solutions, marine infrastructure, environmental projects, energy storage facilities and biogas installations. As a member of the Ackermans & Van Haaren investment team, Koen Janssen participates in continuous training courses to identify ESG risks and opportunities and stays updated on ESG regulations. AN HERREMANS Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1982 First appointment as Director June 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience An Herremans received a Master’s degree in Business Engineering from the KU Leuven and a Master’s degree in Finance from the Vlerick Business School. She has worked as Strategy Office Manager at Barco and as Senior Consultant at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. She is currently a member of the Executive Committee at Ackermans & van Haaren. As a member of the Ackermans & Van Haaren investment team, An Herre­ mans takes part in continuous training to identify ESG risks and opportu­ nities and stays updated on ESG regulations. WARAKU BV, represented by HELENE BOSTOEN (since 1 January 2024 following co-optation, previously Hélène Bostoen as an individual) Capacity Independent Director Committees Member of the Audit Committee since May 2021 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1977 First appointment as Director May 2021 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Hélène Bostoen is a management engineer (Solvay Business School, ULB, Brussels) and holds an MBA from INSEAD. She began her career at Merrill Lynch in New York. In 2005, she founded Itza Food, now Mexma Food, which produces tortillas. In 2007, she took over the management of a family group, Fenixco, active in residential real estate development in Belgium, Poland and France. She is an independent director of Home Invest Belgium and Abattoir NV and is co-chair of the UPSI-BVS profes­ sional federation’s developers’ commission. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 51 LIEVE CRETEN BV, represented by LIEVE CRETEN Capacity Independent Director Committees Chair of the Audit Committee since July 2022 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since July 2022 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1965 First appointment as Director May 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience Lieve Creten is a management engineer (KU Leuven, 1989) and also holds a Master’s degree in taxation (1989). She was a partner at Deloitte for over twenty years, where she developed the M&A practice and led the Financial Advisory practice as a Managing Partner from 2008 to 2019. She was a member of the Executive Committee of Deloitte Belgium until 2019. In addition, she was a member of Deloitte Financial Advisory’s glob­ al executive team from 2015 to 2021. Lieve Creten is currently active as an independent director in several companies and also as an independent consultant. B Global Management SRL, represented by STÉPHANE BURTON Capacity Independent Director Committees Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since June 2022 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1973 First appointment as Director June 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience Stéphane Burton received a Master in Law at the Catholic University of Leuven (1996), a Master in Social, Economic & Tax Law at Universiteit Gent (1997) and a Global Executive MBA from INSEAD (2013). He began his career as a corporate lawyer, before joining the TAT/Sabena Technics group in 2007. He held a number of different positions, becoming director of the Belgian subsidiaries in 2008 and a member of the Group Man­ agement Board in 2009. In 2014, he led a management buy-out of the Belgian subsidiaries In 2014, he led a management buy-out of the Belgian subsidiaries of the group and has since continued – as CEO - to develop the ORIZIO group, which was created by the merger of Sabena Aerospace and Sabca, now Orizio Group. He is also Vice-Chairman of Liege Airport and an independent director of SECO, Charleroi Airport and Sopartec/UCLouvain- Technology Transfer Office. Fernando Sistac Management et Conseil SAS, represented by FERNANDO SISTAC (since 26 March 2024 following co-optation, previously Fernando Sistac as an individual) Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth French, born 1959 First appointment as Director May 2023 Current term of office expires 2027 AGM Training and experience Fernando Sistac is a civil and geotechnical engineer (Polytech Lille, 1982). Until 2022, he was Managing Director of Vinci Environnement and Chief Operating Officer of Entrepose Group (Vinci). He joined the Vinci group in 2000 as CEO of CBC (Sogea Group). From 2012 to 2016, he was Deputy Managing Director of Vinci Construction France, and from 2016 to 2018, Chief Operating Officer of Vinci Construction France. He was a member of the Comex of Vinci Construction France until 2018. In view of the expiry of several directorships (including one as an independent director), it will be proposed, on the recommenda­ tion of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, at the Ordinary General Meeting of 30 April 2025, to renew for a period of four years the appointment of Luc Bertrand, Piet Dejonghe and Koen Janssen as directors and of Waraku BV, represented by Hélène Bos­ toen as an independent director. 2.1.2. Composition and diversity of the Board of Directors The composition of CFE’s Board of Directors reflects the company’s controlling shareholders. CFE is controlled by Ackermans & van Haaren SA, a Belgian company whose shares are listed on Euronext Brussels, and by VINCI Construction SAS. As at 31 December 2024, CFE’s eight-member Board of Directors includes four representatives put forward by the leading shareholder, Ackermans & van Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 52 Haaren NV, and a representative put forward by VINCI Construction SAS. This situation of control also justifies the presence on 31 December 2024 of representatives put forward by the leading shareholder, Ackermans & van Haaren NV, at the Audit Committee (one member out of three) and on the Nomination and Remuneration Com­ mittee (one member out of three). The composition of the Board of Directors is also based on a balance between experience, competence and independence, with respect for diversity, in particular the equality between men and women. The Board of Directors includes a sufficient number of in­ dependent directors to ensure that the interests of all the Company’s shareholders are respected, and one-third of its members are women, thus meeting the requirements of article 7:86 of the CSA. The balance of attendees is re-evaluated each year by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. 2.2. Role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors The duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors are detailed in the Company’s Corporate Governance Charter. The Chairman maintains close links with the Chairman of the Executive Committee and ensures, in close collaboration with the latter, that the Board of Directors, in its composition, deliberations, decision-making and implementation of decisions, operates in accordance with the provisions of the Charter, and draws up, again in close collaboration with the Chairman of the Executive Com­ mittee, the agenda for Board meetings. Generally speaking, the Chairman of the Board also ensures effective communication with all directors, creating a climate of trust that allows open discussion and constructive criticism, and with the Company’s shareholders and other stakeholders. The Chairman is also in charge of the various evaluation procedures for the Board and its Committees. 2.3. Attendance, functioning and competences of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is organised so as to ensure that decisions are taken collectively in the interests of the Company and in a way that allows work to be carried out efficiently. The Board of Directors meets at least five times a year, at times set at the beginning of the year, and whenever the Company’s in­ terests so require. The Board of Directors met on six occasions in 2024. The attendance rate for Board meetings in 2024 is shown below: Name Capacity Attendance rate Luc Bertrand Non-executive director, Chairman 6/6 Piet Dejonghe Non-executive director 6/6 Koen Janssen Non-executive director 6/6 An Herremans Non-executive director 6/6 Waraku BV, represented by Hélène Bostoen Independent Director 5/6 Lieve Creten BV, represented by Lieve Creten Independent Director 5/6 B Global Management SRL, represented by Stéphane Burton Independent Director 6/6 Fernando Sistac Non-executive director until 26 March 2024 2/2 Fernando Sistac Management& Conseil SAS, represented by Fernando Sistac Non-executive director since 26 March 2024 (following co-optation) 4/4 In addition to defining corporate strategy and culture and supervising the work of the Committees, the Board of Directors approves the statutory and consolidated financial statements and the management report, decides on the appropriation of profits and the publication of financial and non-financial information. Specific decisions taken by the Board of Directors in 2024 mainly concerned: • approval the financial statements for 2023 as well as the financial statements for the first half of 2024; • examination of the 2024 budget updates; • examination of the 2025 budget; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 96 2.1.8. Statement concerning activities involving the use of nuclear or fossil fuels In 2024, CFE did not carry out any activities related to the use of nuclear energy or fossil fuels 2024. Table 17 : Nuclear and fossil fuel activities Row Nuclear energy related activities YES / NO 1 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. NO 2 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to pro­ duce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen pro­ duction, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. NO 3 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nu­ clear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. NO Fossil gas related activities 4 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that pro­ duce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 5 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 6 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 2.2. ESRS E1 : Climate change Reducing GHG emissions and combating climate change are important objectives for the international community. The Paris Agreement’s 1.5°C target states that global emissions must be substantially reduced by 2030 and become zero by 2050. In Europe, this ambition is supported by the European Green Deal. Reducing GHG emissions, both in intensity and in absolute terms, has been and remains a priority for CFE. CFE is committed to im­ plementing action plans to reduce these GHGs. Since 2020, specific action plans have been put in place to limit the Group’s direct emissions (scope 1 and 2). This applies in particu­ lar to mobility management and energy management at sites and headquarters. Since 2020, CFE has been screening its indirect emissions (scope 3) to identify the main sources of emissions and prioritise action plans to target these main sources. A more detailed GHG Protocol analysis of indirect emissions was carried out in 2024, confirming the actions taken since 2020. Implementing action plans to achieve our environmental ambitions is a collective responsibility. Every player, from the workers on construction sites to sustainability officers, project developers, design and methods departments and QHSE teams, plays a crucial role. Nevertheless, management has a major responsibility to ensure that action plans are implemented in their Business Units. To underline the importance of these ESG objectives, the achievement of environmental targets is integrated into their variable remu­ neration, including short- and long-term bonuses. Further details are available in the Remuneration report. ESRS E1 GOV-3 13 2.2.1. SBM3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model The construction sector has a significant impact on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Construction activities consume large quan­ tities of energy, mainly from fossil fuels, to produce materials such as cement, steel and glass. These materials are responsible for significant CO2 emissions during their manufacture. Construction sites also generate direct emissions through the use of machinery and vehicles. The buildings themselves, once constructed, continue to contribute to GHG emissions through their energy consump­ tion for heating, cooling and lighting. Finally, construction and demolition waste management adds another layer of emissions, in­ creasing the sector’s overall carbon footprint. The ESRS theme of “climate change mitigation” is material for CFE and its various subsidiaries, as GHG emissions can have a signif­ icant impact on the group’s future results, mainly due to the financial impact of future carbon taxes. Business models still need to evolve, but face the following challenges: availability and scaling-up of new technologies, supply chains unable to support this scal­ ing-up, and customers’ willingness and ability to accept these additional costs. Climate change mitigation is therefore a priority issue for the CFE group. ESRS E1 SBM-3 18 CFE’s activities, which include the construction of residential and non-residential buildings, do not make a substantial and direct contribution to climate change adaptation. These types of projects focus primarily on creating infrastructure to meet society’s needs in terms of work, housing and education. While these buildings may incorporate elements of sustainability, such as energy efficiency and the use of eco-friendly materials, they are not specifically designed to substantially mitigate the impacts of climate Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 97 change on the community, such as extreme weather events or rising sea levels. Consequently, although these projects are essential for urban and social development, their direct contribution to climate change adaptation remains limited. As CFE does not actually hold any real estate in its portfolio, there is no real financial risk associated with climate change adaptation. The absence of these assets means that CFE is not directly exposed to the potential costs associated with upgrading or protecting infrastructure against climate impacts. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19c Although climate change mitigation is a material issue for CFE, involving the reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions as well as its en­ ergy consumption, the theme of energy transition is not considered a material subject. This is because Scope 3 emissions, including embodied and operational carbon, are significantly higher than direct emissions. In other words, indirect emissions linked to the materials used and building operations account for a much larger share of CFE’s total carbon footprint, so the leverage effect of this energy transition is much less relevant than managing Scope 3 emissions. For this reason, CFE will not report on ESRS E1-5. The assessment of impacts, risks and opportunities linked to climate change has been carried out taking into account the Group’s different business lines, as each segment may present specific IROs. A consolidation exercise was then carried out as described in chapter 1.5 of the DMA. This analysis was carried out taking into account different time horizons (current, short-term, medium-term and long-term). On the other hand, the anticipated financial effects of IROs have been omitted by applying the phase-in principle. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 a, b , ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR7b Although climate change is material for CFE, it does not constitute a risk requiring immediate and radical adaptation of the group’s business model. Indeed, the current model is already in line with the strategy, which focuses on designing and developing sustaina­ ble buildings, intelligent industry and infrastructure for green energy and mobility. Rather, it’s a transition to increased activity of this kind in the future, and both the teams and the company are ready for it. ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 c, ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR 8b 2.2.2. E1.IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities CFE has assessed the list of ESRS themes in its DMA, including ESRS E1 climate change, ESRS E2 pollution, ESRS E3 water and marine re­ sources, ESRS E4 biodiversity and ecosystems, and ESRS E5 resource use and circular economy. On the basis of the DMA carried out, only ESRS E1 climate change is identified as a risk with a high materiality of impact and financial impact. The process of identifying impacts, risks and opportunities is described in more detail in section 1.4.3 relating to DMA in Sustainability Statements. As stipulated in the ESRS, the DMA exercise covers the entire value chain and is assessed over different time horizons. ESRS E1.IRO-1 20 a,b,c, AR 9 et AR12a The main risks, opportunities and impacts are transition risks. These are detailed in chapter 1.5.2. For climate risks, the phasing-in of provisions for the year ending 31 December 2024 have been used. CFE has developed a method­ ology for assessing climate risks and opportunities. This assessment will cover both physical and transitional risks in its own opera­ tions, as well as along the upstream and downstream value chain (including detailed scenario suggestions and time horizons to be covered in short-, medium- and long-term scenario analysis). Phase in requirements for ESRS ­E1.IRO-1, ­AR 11 a, b, c & d, 21, AR 12 a, b, c & d, 21 et AR 15 An initial analysis indicates that no major physical risks have been identified in connection with the Group’s activities. This analysis confirms the DMA results. The assessment will therefore focus on transition risks. The results of this assessment could have an impact on the DMA exercise carried out. 2.2.3. E1-2 Climate change mitigation policies CFE has drafted a policy entitled “Climate Change Policy”. It does not cover climate change adaptation, as this theme has not been deemed material. ESRS E1-2 24, 25 This policy applies to all the Group’s activities and is addressed to all Group employees. It was drafted by the Group’s CSO and ap­ proved by the Executive Committee and Board of Directors. It is available to employees via the Group intranet. With this policy, CFE undertakes not only to monitor its GHG emissions, but also to implement the actions necessary to achieve its ambitions in terms of reducing these emissions. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 98 To ensure the quality and completeness of the data monitored, this policy is accompanied by a specific manual on data definition and collection methods. Data is collected by the Business Units and consolidated by the central teams in accordance with GHG protocol methods. This policy also addresses the roles and responsibilities of the various Business Units in drawing up local action plans. It is also based on standards and certifications specific to the various businesses (ISO, CO2 performance scale, etc.). CFE revised its decarbonisation objectives in 2024 and now aims to reduce its direct emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 40% by 2030 com­ pared with 2020 emissions. Indirect emissions (scope 3) need to be reduced by 20% by 2030, compared with the values measured in 2024. ESRS E1-2 24 The path to decarbonisation is a complex one, as the construction sector has a long, fragmented and interdependent value chain. Rather than setting bold ambitions without concrete actions, CFE believes in annual progress based on operational excellence, available technologies and innovation efforts. The growth in turnover and CAPEX in line with the EU’s taxonomy is further proof of this commitment. There is clearly still a need to improve data collection, establish comparable baselines for the sector as a whole, and verify the fea­ sibility and availability of technologies that can act as levers for decarbonisation. As a result, the 2050 transition plan is still under development. This takes into account the evolution of current technological limitations, insufficient sector innovation, and the overall lack of visibility on the commitments of the rest of the sector. Furthermore, Scope 3 emissions were only calculated this year, and still have their limitations, as already highlighted above. On the other hand, a GHG reduction plan for 2030 has been put in place, demonstrating our decarbonisation efforts. This plan is based on the SBTi framework. Although not yet formally validated, CFE will adhere to the SBTi framework as soon as possible. ESRS E1-1 16a 2.2.4. E1-1, E1-3 et E1-4: Transition plans, decarbonisation levers, targets and resources in relation to cli­ mate change policies To remain in touch with the field and market while guaranteeing a global and integrated strategic approach despite its decentral­ ised business model, CFE has put in place clear ESG governance. The overall strategy, long-term vision and target setting is the responsibility of CFE’s Executive Committee. In particular, this means that the Group’s overall GHG emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2050 and the related transition plans (in line with the CSRD) are the responsibility of the Executive Committee. On the other hand, each Business Unit develops its own specific reduction action plans, taking into account its own business and oper­ ating model. The relevance of these plans and the possibility of carrying out collective actions are assessed at Sustainability Boards. As climate change and the negative impact of GHG emissions have been identified as material issues at Group level, these aspects are included in the annual ESG review at Board level. Changes in indicators and targets are also presented annually to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. ESRS E1-1, 16 h & i In 2024, 100% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030. For 2050, no commitment has been made for the reasons explained in section 2.2.3. Consequently, no Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are currently covered by a transition plan for this horizon. This plan is currently under development. 100% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030 (short-term). These targets are aligned with SBTi and therefore compatible with the Paris agreements to limit global warming to 1.5°C in terms of reduction ambition, although they have not yet been formally validated by SBTi. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a For Scope 3 GHG emissions, the most significant emission categories were mapped in 2024. Emissions representing less than 1% of the total are considered non-material and will not be reported. A consultant carried out an audit to verify that no material aspect of the scope 3 emissions calculation had been overlooked, and that the calculation methodology was indeed correct. The data collected in 2024 is considered a reference value for setting the basis for reduction efforts in 2030. Scope 3 emissions come mainly from the emissions category purchases of goods and services, and are based on expenditure data for the materials with the high­ est emissions for the business sector (concrete, steel, special techniques, façade elements). This calculation method will be subject to subsequent adjustments to improve accuracy. Where relevant to the company, more granular data will be collected based on activity data, to refine calculations and provide better information on actions to be taken. This will be an ongoing process for years to come. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 99 Scope 3 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030. Although these targets are compatible with the reduction ambitions of the Paris agreements, they are not formally validated by the SBTi. These targets will be determined according to the emission inten­ sity of the various materials. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a,g Table 18 : Percentage of GHG emissions covered by a reduction target and/or plan Datapoints 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 Percentage of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 100% ESRS E1-1 16 a GHG emissions for scope 3 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 0% ESRS E1-1 16 a 2.2.4.1 Transition plan, objectives and progress Direct emissions: Scope 1 and 2 As of 2021, CFE is committed to reducing its GHG emissions intensity by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. In 2024, CFE reviewed its objectives by committing to reduce its absolute GHG emissions by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. This target is com­ patible with the Paris Agreements and is in line with the SBTi (but has not been officially validated by the SBTi). ESRS E1-4 33 Scope 1 and 2 emissions mainly concern production activities, i.e. Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics. It is therefore in these activities that actions aimed at limiting GHG emissions are mainly deployed. On the other hand, efforts relating to the fleet (company cars) concern all the Group’s activities. ESRS E1-4 34b Lever 1 - Mobility and logistics The first lever activated concerns mobility. As far as company cars are concerned, a mobility plan that benefits workers has been rolled out across the Group to encourage the adoption of alternative modes of transport such as cycling or public transport. Electric cars are widely encouraged. To facilitate adoption, charging stations are installed at most of the Group’s worksites. The fill rate of the vans as well as their routes are being optimised, and tests are being carried out with hybrid and electric vans. Finally, trucks and other heavy construction equipment are gradually being replaced by less polluting vehicles. Mobility-related actions alone repre­ sent a potential 28% reduction in total GHG scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030. Lever 2 - Site energy consumption A second tool for limiting GHG production is to reduce energy consumption for site installations. On site, we monitor energy con­ sumption and can now optimise consumption by tracking down abnormal over-consumption in particular. Understanding of this consumption is supported by improvements in the insulation of the building site containers, as well as various corrective measures. Solar panels are also installed on many construction sites. The positioning of the site installations therefore also takes into account the optimisation of sunlight for the site cabins. In general, the use of green electricity is recommended on construction sites when­ ever possible. The reduction potential of these actions is of the order of 15% by 2030. Particular attention is paid to generators used for site start-up or as occasional back-up for winter heating needs. These generators consume large amounts of energy. Pilot studies are being carried out with batteries or hydrogen generators. The reduction potential has not yet been assessed, as current technologies are not yet efficient. Lever 3 - Office energy consumption For existing head offices where CFE owns the premises, energy audits have been carried out as well as renovations to keep energy consumption to a minimum. Solar panels and energy management systems have also been installed. Finally, BPC, BPI Real Estate, CLE, Van Laere, VMA and CFE’s head office have moved into new buildings designed and built by the group’s entities, all of which are very low-energy buildings. CFE’s new Wood Hub headquarters is particularly exemplary in terms of energy consumption. The building is heated and cooled by geothermal energy and heat pumps, and is equipped with 300 solar panels. This makes Wood Hub almost energy independent, with primary energy consumption of no more than 8.59 kWh per m2. Compared with the current aver­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 100 age of 180 kWh/m2/year for office buildings, Wood Hub stands out as an exceptional NZEB (Nearly Zero Energy Building), designed for the future. The reduction potential of these actions is fairly limited (less than 1%), as total energy consumption in offices is very low compared with construction sites. Nevertheless, these actions are necessary to be consistent with other actions and to establish a real corporate culture around the challenges of climate change. Although we have taken advantage of most of the levers for reducing GHG emissions from scopes 1 and 2, CFE continues to seek further optimisation of its energy consumption. The company regularly tests new pilot projects on its worksites, and closely monitors technological advances and innovations in this field. Particular attention is paid to construction site generators, for which current technology unfortunately does not yet meet market expectations. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j, ESRS E1-4 34f, 16b To ensure that these various measures are followed up, and that worksites choose the solutions best suited to their situation, CFE has compiled all solutions that bring good results in a handbook called the ‘Greenbook’. By 2024, CFE has already achieved an absolute reduction of 25% in total scope 1 and 2 compared with the 2020 reference values. The expected results for 2024 were to achieve a 16% reduction on 2020 values. These excellent results are due in particular to the rapid adoption of on-site energy optimisation methods and an effective fleet greening policy. ESRS E1-3 29 b Table 19 : Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by source Scope 1 and 2 results of actions taken Unit 2020 Reference 2023 N-1 2024 N Improvement on N-1 Improvement on reference year Scope 1 tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,974.47 11,235.58 -20% -29% Fleet tCO2eq 11,713.19 9,821.61 8,329.56 -15% -29% Fuel tCO2eq 3,319.34 3,078.64 1,966.17 -36% -41% Gas tCO2eq 779.64 992.62 899.72 -9% 15% Refrigerants tCO2eq 0.00 81.60 40.13 -51% Scope 2 tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,412.11 1,954.99 38% 4% Electricity tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,342.15 1,742.15 30% -7% Electricity for the fleet tCO2eq 0.00 69,96* 212.84 204% Total scope 1 and 2 tCO2eq 17,684.17 15,386.58 13,190.57 -14% -25% *In the previous year’s report (2023), GHG emissions linked to electric vehicle charging were erroneously calculated in scope 1 instead of scope 2, which explains the minimal deviation in scope 1 and 2 values for 2023 (67.69 tCO2eq). However, total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2023 remain unchanged ESRS E1-3 29 b, ESRS E1-4 34 a,b Indirect emissions: Scope 3 In 2024, CFE carried out a complete analysis of its indirect emissions according to the GHG Protocol. This analysis highlighted the material categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions, which are “purchases of goods and services”, which accounts for 92% of emissions, “use of products sold”, which accounts for 7% of emissions, and to a lesser extent “goods and equipment”, which accounts for 1% of emissions. In the “purchases of goods and services” category, this analysis shows that a small category of materials is responsible for the majority of these emissions. These include concrete, steel, façade elements and, to a lesser extent, technical building instal­ lations such as HVAC, piping, cabling, etc. Taking into account this analysis, as well as current technologies, information and con­ struction methods, CFE has defined its objectives for 2030. CFE has carried out an in-depth study of the stated objectives of its value chain, in particular those of suppliers of materials with a high impact on GHG emissions. Based on this information, CFE has set itself the target of reducing its Scope 3 emissions by 20% by 2030, based on 2024 values. A detailed reduction plan has yet to be drawn up, requiring a more granular analysis of the data. Specific targets for the “use of products sold” category will also be defined from 2025. The 20% reduction target applies to the entire CFE group. ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-4 33, ESRS E1-4 34b As 2024 is the reference year, so far there are no measurable results from the actions undertaken. ESRS E1-3 29 b Lever 1 - Sustainable suppliers and materials The main lever for reducing scope 3 GHGs is therefore the commitment of suppliers who themselves have targets and reduction plans in line with the Paris agreements. Alongside this lever, CFE also wants to take a pro-active approach. As a developer, BPI Real Estate is committed to developing sustainable projects and limiting both the level of embodied carbon and Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 101 the carbon content of its buildings. BPI Real Estate uses Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) in accordance with EN19578 and relies on the taxonomy’s criteria wherever possible. As Multitechnics contractors and companies, CFE actively proposes sustainable and innovative alternatives at the tender stage or even during project execution. These may be reused material alternatives, bio-sourced materials, or others. A centralised centre of expertise supports field teams in developing these sustainable variants and solutions, and also centralises best practices in a database available to all Group employees. CFE is also involved in innovative pilot projects, such as the Buildwise project to optimise site logistics through the use of consolida­ tion centres with Buildwise. Lever 2 - Stimulating change in the sector CFE participates in, and/or chairs, numerous sector-specific working groups aimed at implementing large-scale sustainable and innovative solutions. In particular, this concerns the circular economy, the adoption of the “CO2 performance ladder”, the revision of public specifications, etc. CFE is also particularly active in the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Construction (BA4SC), which brings together representatives of the various professional associations in the construction sector around the themes of sustainability and climate change in particular. Lever 3 - Opportunities in the business model CFE has also launched three new Business Units aimed at bringing a new, more sustainable approach to construction projects. They are Wood shapers, Vmanager and Pulse. Wood Shapers, a subsidiary of the CFE group, specialises in sustainable construction using mainly wood and other bio-sourced materials. With its focus on reducing carbon footprints and using recyclable materials, Wood Shapers contributes to greener con­ struction. Furthermore, the spaces created by the company are designed to enhance the well-being of occupants through healthy materials and safer working environments. VMA offers ESCO services that provide guaranteed energy performance to clients who so desire. In 2020, VMA launched Vmanager, a piece of software and an App targeting energy savings, energy flow management and, in general, construction technology man­ agement. This innovative tool facilitates intelligent and sustainable management of new and renovated buildings by combining VMA’s technical expertise, intensive monitoring and tools to supervise and control their actual energy performance. The develop­ ment of Vmanager combined with the know-how of VMA makes it possible to offer a global solution for energy management. Finally, Pulse specialises in property redevelopment, offering an integrated solution to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase occupant comfort. The company offers services ranging from energy and environmental audits to com­ plete building renovation and the installation of innovative technologies. Pulse aims to increase the value of its clients’ real estate assets while meeting environmental requirements and guaranteeing an optimal return on investment. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j Summary table of GHG reduction targets Table 20: GHG reduction targets Specific CO2 reduction targets Reference year Reference value target year for the objective value 2024 reduction in 2024 compared with the reference year expected reduction in target year since refer­ ence year tCO2eq tCO2eq % tCO2eq % tCO2eq Scope 1-2 market based 2020 17,683.79 2030 13,190.57 -25% -4,493.22 -40% -7,073.52 Scope 3 2024 482,306.42 2030 482,306.42 0% 0.00 -20% -96,461.28 ­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 111 Secondly, CFE insists on sharing experience and best practices, as well as analysing all incidents, in order to drive all BUs to the top. ESRS S1-4 36, 37, 38, 39, 42 3.1.6.4 Taking coactivity into account On its construction projects, CFE has numerous co-activities with subcontractors or third parties. It is therefore essential that the same vigilance and respect for the rules be applied in the same way to our own workforce as to other project participants. For this reason, the number of accidents involving subcontractors is also monitored. This point is covered in more detail in the next chapter. 3.1.6.5 Financial impact of actions taken The actions undertaken consist mainly of management (local prevention advisers in the Business Units and head of safety), training and communication, and specific resources to ensure day-to-day safety on site. For this last point, an evaluation of costs is always carried out during the project submission phase and is then incorporated into the commercial offer submitted to the customer. All safety-related costs (direct and indirect) are included in “operating costs” as presented in the Financial Report on page 162. To date, the granularity of financial information is not yet sufficient to provide reliable quantitative values. Further details will be provid­ ed from 2025 onwards. ESRS S1-4 43 3.1.7. S1-5 Objectives In its health and safety policy, CFE is committed to zero accidents. Its communication campaign is called GO FOR ZERO. This objec­ tive applies not only to all CFE workers, but also to anyone else working on our sites. Nevertheless, with this ambition in mind, CFE has decided to set ambitious but realistic targets for 2030. CFE has therefore set itself the target of achieving a maximum severity rate of 0.52 by 2030. This objective has been defined with the aim of halving average sector values (source: Fedris). Internal annual targets were therefore set using a linear regression starting from the reference value, the 2021 frequency rate, which was 0.69. The severity rate target (= number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of hours worked) concerns only acci­ dents involving the CFE group’s own workforce. The ambition was set on the basis of sector results for 2021 (source Fedris.be), with the aim of being at least twice as good as the sector (and therefore having a severity rate equivalent to half the sector severity rate). ESRS S1-5 46 The ambition level and quantitative target for the severity rate were decided by the Executive Committee after validation of this proposal by the Safety Board. ESRS S1-5 47 Safety dashboards constantly show whether or not the annual targets set for each BU are being met. In addition to these external objectives, internal targets are also monitored. Proactive objectives are favoured, such as tracking inci­ dents and near-misses, the number of toolbox meetings held, and the number of visits made by management. All BU management committees have permanent access to these dashboards. ESRS S1-5 47 3.1.8. S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s workforce The table in this section gives an overview of the workforce at the end of the reference period, 31 December 2024. The table only includes workers considered as own employees and not yet non-salaried employees included in own staff (in accordance with the phasing-in provision). The figures published only include CFE and its BUs, and do not include data from the Investments and Holdings segment, which are outside the scope of reporting. ESRS S1-6 49,ESRS S1-6 50 dii Table 26 : Number of employees by type of contract Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 112 Number of employees by type of contract Open-ended contract Fixed-term con­ tract Zero-hours con­ tract Total 2022 2,937 137 0 3,074 2023 2,822 168 0 2,990 2024 2,712 142 0 2,854 Among the 142 workers on fixed-term contracts, 7 are on work-study contracts. Table 27 : Number of employees by type Number of women and men Total #Women %Women #Men %Men 2022 3,074 487 15.8% 2,587 84.2% 2023 2,990 487 16.3% 2,503 83.7% 2024 2,854 476 16.7% 2,378 83.3% ESRS S1-6 50 a,b CFE has a total of 2,854 workers. Of these, 2,282 are based in Belgium, 210 in Luxembourg and 359 in Poland. ESRS S1-6 51 Figures are given by headcount and not by FTE. Information on workers and their contracts comes from the social secretariats. This data is consolidated in a single HR management dashboard. In Belgium, the various Group entities have a single social secretariat for all 2,282 employees, which guarantees the reliability and robustness of the data. In Luxembourg and Poland, there is also a social secretariat for each country. Non-employees, on the other hand, are not taken into account. It’s not material. Nevertheless, reporting systems will be further de­ veloped and enhanced in the future to provide greater granularity. ESRS S1-6 50 di At the end of December 2024, the Group’s staff turnover (by headcount) for the year was 13.10%. This corresponds to 374 leavers. ESRS S1-6 50 c All the above-mentioned HR indicators have remained relatively stable over the past 3 years. ESRS S1-6 50 e 3.1.9. S1-11 Social protection In accordance with current European and local legislation, all CFE group workers benefit from social protection in the event of illness or accident on site or on the way to or from work. ESRS S1-11 3.1.10. S1-13 Training and skills development Training and skills development are offered through training plans, coaching, career plans, and so on. These plans focus on both non-technical and technical skills, to facilitate the maintenance of skilled employment. At the end of 2022, CFE launched its “CFE academy”. It is an online training platform that allows each employee to find customised training courses, both in terms of content and format. The digital approach (while keeping the option of attending face-to-face training) allows for greater flexibility for employees to train when it suits them best. Specific health and safety training sessions are organised, for example, when employees are hired, when they arrive on site, at monthly toolbox meetings and during dedicated “safety days”. The number of training hours within CFE and its BUs is monitored through the CFE Academy program. This data is measured as a total and by gender. However, it is not listed by worker category. This data will not be published until next year, in the 2025 report. Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 b A new programme to digitise the performance appraisal process will make it possible to measure the percentage of workers who have taken part in the appraisal. It will be deployed in 2025. This data will therefore not be published until the next report 2025. Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 a, 84, 85 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 113 3.1.11. S1-14 Health and safety metrics Since safety is a major concern, CFE has developed QHSE dashboards to keep close track of the trend in the figures and to take the necessary remedial action as soon as possible. The severity rate (one of the traditional security indicators) was chosen to be one of the KPI’s governing our sustainability linked loans with the banks. The dashboards, which contain the main information for each subsidiary, are updated at least once a month to keep track of the safety data. They include traditional safety information (frequency and severity rates etc.) but also indicators of proactive safety actions (toolbox meetings, management involvement, taking into account incidents and feedback, etc.). This data covers 100% of the Group’s own workers. This does not include self-employed workers, temporary staff or subcontractors. The monitoring of this data follows the rules prescribed by ISO 9001 and the Belgian legal definitions for safety indicators: • Frequency rate = number of lost-time accidents x 1 million divided by the number of working hours. • Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of working hours. • A lost-time accident is an accident in the workplace resulting in at least one day’s incapacity, not including the day of the acci­ dent. • An accident without incapacity is an accident that does not result in incapacity for work beyond the day of the accident. • A first aid accident is an accident requiring only first aid on the spot. These are not included in this report. • Recordable incidents are the sum of lost-time accidents and accidents without incapacity (excluding first-aid). • The frequency rate is calculated as follows: number of lost-time accidents x 1,000,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The severity rate is calculated as follows: Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The recordable incident rate is calculated as follows: number of recordable incidents x 1,000,000 divided by number of hours worked. ESRS S1-14 87 Table 28: Data on accidents involving our own workforce 2022 2023 2024 % of workers included in the health and safety risk management 100 100 100 Number of work-related fatalities (own workforce) 0 0 0 Number of work-related fatalities (subcontractor or third party) 1 1 0 Number of recordable accidents (excluding first aid) 145 139 115 Number of lost-time accidents 93 77 64 Frequency rate 21.96 18.47 15.34 Severity rate 0.72 0.68 0.56 Recordable accident rate NC NC 27.55 Number of cases of illness directly linked to work 0 0 0 Number of days lost due to an accident at work 3,050 2,847 2,321 The number of accidents reported and the number of days lost correspond to data recorded and validated by insurers for Belgium and Luxembourg. In Poland, on the other hand, accidents and their consequences are recorded in national records. This information is therefore robust, complete and reliable. ESRS S1-14 88 The safety of subcontractors is also taken into account in a specific dashboard (see chapter 3.2.7). 3.1.11.1 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts No offences or complaints of discrimination or failure to respect human rights were recorded in 2024. No fines have been reapplied either. ESRS S1-17 3.2. ESRS S2: Workers in the value chain This analysis focuses specifically on subcontractors rather than the entire value chain of a construction project. The main reason is that the value chain in this sector is often very long and fragmented, involving many different players with varying roles. Further­ more, there is not always direct contact with the lower links in this chain, which makes it difficult to assess all the potential risks and impacts in a comprehensive and accurate way. By focusing on subcontractors, who are key partners and directly involved in site operations, it is possible to implement more targeted and effective safety measures, ensuring better management of material risks and a significant improvement in working conditions. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 114 3.2.1. SBM2 Interests and views of stakeholders Collaboration and dialogue with subcontractors are essential elements of CFE’s group strategy. We consider them as important as our own workforce. By fostering open, ongoing communication, we ensure that subcontractors are fully integrated into our process­ es and share our safety and quality objectives. This collaborative approach strengthens relationships based on trust, improves co­ ordination on construction sites and ensures that everyone works together harmoniously and efficiently. By valuing the contributions of subcontractors and treating them as key partners, we create a safer, more productive working environment for all. ESRS 2 SBM-2 3.2.2. SBM3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model The DMA exercise (chap 1.5.1) has demonstrated that health and safety are material sub-themes for CFE and its subcontractors. In particular, there is a significant risk of negative impact, as accidents can occur on site, leading to serious incapacity, permanent after-effects and even death. The heart of CFE’s business happens on the construction sites. The work is carried out by CFE’s own workers or by subcontractors. At present, there’s no way of carrying out these projects without manpower. Every effort must therefore be made to limit these risks. CFE considers that it is just as important to fight to limit safety risks on site for its own workforce as for subcontractors, since every human being deserves to be treated equally in the face of danger. The analysis carried out in chapter 3.1.2 therefore also covers the entire value chain. ESRS S2-SBM-3 11 a,c 3.2.3. S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers CFE has adopted a series of policies that apply both to its own workforce and to the various parties involved on site. These include the Human Rights Policy and the QHSE Policy. These documents are described in detail in chapter 3.1.3. A Code of Conduct for commercial partners has also been drawn up. It includes an obligation to comply with the internal Code of Conduct, and in particular to respect the safety rules set out in the QHSE policy. The obligation to comply with local and European laws and regulations, as well as with the aforementioned policies, are an integral part of the contractual clauses for sub-contractors. ESRS S2-16, 17, 18, 19 3.2.4. S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts Ongoing dialogue with the various parties involved on our worksites is a priority, and this primarily concerns safety. The onboarding of all subcontractors is formalised by means of a short training session introducing the site, the contact persons and the specific rules relating to the project. It is vital to ensure that everyone can identify the various stakeholders involved, and knows who to contact in the event of any problems. The site manager will ensure that all this information is understood by providing training in a language that the workers understand. Each team should have a manager who speaks one of the project’s national languages, to ensure that he or she can communicate with the site management teams at all times. Formal meetings are held at least once a week with subcontractors working on the site. To ensure that these meetings run smoothly, team leaders from the various subcontractors represent their companies. These meetings are followed by a clear report setting out the actions to be taken by the various parties involved, an update on the schedule and an overview of the phases to come. A LEAN and collaborative approach is adopted on all projects. Engagement with the value chain on worksites on safety issues, using a LEAN approach, is essential to ensure a safe and efficient working environment. Secondly, value chain mapping enables us to analyse each stage of the construction process, from design to delivery, and detect critical points where safety incidents may occur. A culture of safety must be established, with visible leadership where managers set the example by respecting and valuing safety practices and open communication. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation of safety performance, through key indicators and regular site visits, ensures compliance with standards and identifies areas for improvement. By integrating these LEAN principles into worksite safety management, it is possible to create a safer, more efficient and more col­ laborative working environment. The key lies in the commitment of all players in the value chain and in a culture of continuous im­ provement. Penalties are foreseen and communicated for any worker who does not respect the safety rules in force on projects. ESRS S2-2 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 115 3.2.5. S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns To remedy negative impacts on sites, it is essential to put in place a structured process and effective communication channels. This process begins with the identification and assessment of potential impacts. This includes carrying out risk analyses to identify potential hazards and assess their severity and probability. At the start of site activities, each subcontractor is required to share this specific risk analysis with the site management team, in order to analyse the resources to be implemented and responsibilities to­ gether. Once the impacts have been identified, preventive and/or corrective measures must be implemented. This can include modifying work procedures, improving safety equipment, or training workers to better manage identified risks. It is crucial to document these measures and ensure that they are clearly communicated to all team members. To enable workers in the value chain to voice their concerns, several communication channels need to be established: Onboarding new workers: This onboarding provides information and training for new workers on a project. In particular, the organi­ sational chart of site management and their contact details are provided to facilitate future exchanges. Regular meetings: Weekly safety meetings are organised on projects where workers can discuss safety issues and propose solu­ tions. Direct communication lines: Subcontractors are encouraged to communicate any concerns or comments directly with site teams as a matter of priority. Mobile applications: On most worksites, a mobile app enables workers to report incidents or concerns quickly and easily. Security representatives: The site’s QHSE manager, along with the entire site management team, makes regular visits to the site, enabling direct interaction with all those involved. It’s also important to create a safety culture where workers feel comfortable reporting problems without fear of reprisal. This is en­ couraged by visible, committed leadership that values and respects workers’ contributions to safety. Finally, it is essential to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the measures put in place, by tracking safety indicators. ESRS S2-3 27, 28 3.2.6. S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions Each project is unique and requires a specific risk analysis. This exercise must be carried out both by the project management team and by subcontractors. This analysis must be carried out before work begins, to enable a dialogue with the project’s management teams and to validate the most suitable working methods for limiting risks together. Scheduling will also be defined in such a way as to keep co-activities between workers to a minimum. Weekly site meetings allow us to see whether or not we need to adapt or correct the chosen work methods. Everyone involved in a project is jointly responsible for their own safety and that of others. On the other hand, subcontracting agree­ ments specify in detail the roles and responsibilities of all parties involved. Among other things, it defines who is responsible for the breakdown and maintenance of collective protection equipment. Each subcontractor is responsible for his or her own personal protective equipment. On the other hand, the site management team will ensure that each employee uses the equipment correctly. The site management team will ensure that a responsible, collaborative and respectful site culture is in place. This working atmos­ phere facilitates communication and a genuine safety culture. Regular checks are carried out on site by the BU’s QHSE manager and by management teams. These visits enable us to identify safety shortcomings and correct them as quickly as possible. These visits are always accompanied by a visit report to ensure that every remark has been addressed. Control also involves regular monitoring and communication of safety indicators. A specific monthly dashboard also includes the number of incidents and accidents involving subcontractors. The management team will also ensure that subcontracting teams receive the necessary training. In the event of failure to comply with the established rules, penalties are applied. In the event of serious misconduct, the person responsible will be asked to leave the site with immediate effect and will not be allowed to return. CFE also monitors the company’s track record in terms of safety compliance and safety culture, and takes this into account when selecting subcontractors. CFE is not aware of any serious human rights problems or incidents linked to the upstream or downstream value chain (other than the site accidents listed in the following chapter). Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"IT, digital & innovation “We are making selective investments in digitalization and innovation that deliver added value for our teams and our clients.” Hans Van Dromme, Chief Digital Officer Hans Van Dromme : In 2025, we will continue the roll­ out of ERP and prepare ourselves for the onboarding of our larger Construction & Renovation companies starting in 2026. Our transversal Innovation Board will continue the innovation roadmap and process - a series of pro­ jects in the domains of AI, predictive maintenance, and site energy monitoring a Powertrack system. Cyber security focus remains a priority in our Group. We are working on both end-user awareness and training, as well as technical and response capability in our IT Department and business departments. Hans Van Dromme : In 2024, the rollout of our new ERP platform progressed with the onboarding of the first few of our businesses. We launched multiple new transversal applications across the Group. We introduced a global talent management app for the whole Group, as well as the new Hello Heroes app, which connects all CFE employees and workers to keep them connected with each other and up to date with the latest news. For our project and site managers we introduced new applications for BIM viewing, safety management and quality control. We placed more focus on cyber security resilience, and we took further steps in the harmonization of our infrastructure and applications where possible across the Group. Hello Heroes App Annual report 2024 25 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Legal & Compliance We remain committed to further strengthening our Compliance and Ethics processes. While we ini­ tially focused on general policies for all levels of the organization, we plan to extend this in 2025 by imple­ menting function-specific policies and processes to ensure harmonization across the Group. The Legal Board will continue to evolve, with a focus on building greater agility. We aim to make it eas­ ier for legal experts to be deployed where needed, particularly during peak workloads or in high-priority matters. In Risk Management, we will raise the bar on assess­ ments to ensure we continue to enhance our pro­ cesses and adopt a proactive risk management approach, identifying and mitigating potential risks before they materialize. Philippine De Wolf : In 2024, we made significant strides in strengthening the Legal and Compliance function at Group level. One of our key achievements was the relaunch and harmonization of the Group’s Compliance program and procedures, which became a priority follow­ ing the demerger with DEME. This initiative included comprehensive training for the entire organization, designed to mitigate risks and enhance business integrity. We also introduced the transversal Legal Board in 2024, aimed at fostering greater synergy across the Group and providing stronger legal support to the business units. This is especially crucial for larger pro­ jects, where the legal aspect plays an increasingly vital role. Legal is now more integrated into the Risk Manage­ ment process, with representation in engagement committees for projects exceeding certain thresh­ olds. This ensures thorough risk assessments are conducted. “In an increasingly complicated legal environment, it is more important than ever to have an agile legal team that is a real business partner and is able to mitigate potential risks in advance without being a hurdle to business opportunities.” Philippine De Wolf, General Counsel Annual report 2024 26 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
Annual report 2024 - CFE 27 Management report Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS I. Statutory financial statements 29 1. Equity and main shareholders 29 2. Notes to the statutory financial statements 29 2.1. Financial position at 31/12/2024 29 2.2. Appropriation of profit 30 2.3. Outlook 2025 30 2.4. Main risks and uncertainties 30 2.5. Major events after the closing of the financial year 30 2.6. Financial instruments 30 2.7. Notices 30 II. Consolidated financial statements 32 1. Comments on the consolidated financial statements 32 1.1. Financial position at 31/12/2024 32 1.2. Main risks 38 1.3. Major events after the close of the financial year 47 1.4. Research and development 47 1.5. Financial instruments 47 1.6. Outlook 2025 47 III. Corporate governance statement 49 1. Reference code 49 2. The Board of Directors and its Committees 49 2.1. Board of Directors 49 2.2. Role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors 52 2.3. Attendance, functioning and competences of the Board of Directors 52 3. Executive Board Committees 53 3.1. The Audit Committee 53 3.2. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 54 4. The Executive Committee 54 5. Diversity policy 57 6. Conflicts of interest 57 7. External and internal control and risk management 58 7.1. External control 58 7.2. Internal control 58 7.3. Internal control and risk management systems 58 8. Shareholder base 61 9. Derogations from the 2020 Code 61 IV Remuneration report 62 1. Remuneration policy 62 1.1. Governance - Procedure 62 1.2. Remuneration policy for non-executive directors 62 1.3. CEO Remuneration Policy 63 1.4. Remuneration policy for members of the Executive Committee 64 1.5. Mandates in subsidiaries 64 1.6. Changes since the last remuneration policy 65 1.7. Shareholder voting 65 2. Remuneration report 66 2.1. Remuneration of non-executive directors 66 2.2. Compensation of the CEO and Executive Committee members in 2024 66 2.3. Severance payments 68 2.4. Annual changes in remuneration and Company performance 69 V Sustainability statements 70 1. General information 74 1.1. Basis for preparation 74 1.2. GOV-4 & 5 Notion of risk and due diligence 77 1.3. SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain 79 1.4. SBM-2 Interest and views of stakeholders 80 1.5. SBM-3 Material IROs and their interaction with the business model and strategy 84 1.6. IRO-1 and 2 Double materiality assessment 87 1.7. Organisation of roles and responsibilities for sustainable development issues (GOV-1, 2 and 3) 88 2. Environmental information 90 2.1. European Taxonomy information (pursuant to article 8 of Regulation 2020/852) 90 2.2. ESRS E1: Climate change 97 3. Social information 108 3.1. ESRS S1: Policies related to own workforce 108 3.2. ESRS S2: Workers in the value chain 114 4. Governance information 117 4.1. ESRS2: IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 117 4.2. Policies on responsible business culture 117 4.3. Specific objectives and monitoring of these policies 118 5. Annexes 119 5.1. Annex 1: Glossary and abbreviations 119 5.2. Annex 2: List of references 122 5.3. Annex 3: List of omitted information 123 5.4. Annex 4: Auditor’s report 124 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 29 Dear shareholders, It is our privilege to report to you on our company’s activities during the past financial year and to submit to you for approval the statutory and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024. In accordance with Article 3:32, section 1, last paragraph of the Code of Companies and Associations (“CSA”), the directors’ reports on the statutory and consolidated financial statements have been integrated into one report. I. STATUTORY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Equity and main shareholders At the end of the financial year, the Company’s share capital amounted to € 8,135,621.14, divided into 25,314,482 shares, with no de­ clared par value. All shares are fully paid up. Each share confers one vote. There are no shareholder owned shares with special con­ trol or voting rights. At the end of the 2024 financial year, the shareholders owning 5% or more of the voting rights relating to the shares they hold are: Ackermans & van Haaren SA Begijnenvest, 113, B-2000 Anvers (Belgium) 15,725,684 shares (or 62.12%) VINCI Construction SAS 1973 Boulevard de la Défense, F-92000 Nanterre (France) 3,066,460 shares (or 12.11%) 2. Notes to the statutory financial statements 2.1. Financial position at 31/12/2024 Income Statement of CFE SA (Belgian standards) (in thousands €) 2024 2023 Operating income 17,854 19.632 Operating charges (22,009) (22,653) Operating result (4,155) (3,021) Financial income 21,869 23,351 Financial expenses (11,063) (9,268) Result for the period before taxes 6,651 11,062 Income taxes on the result (9) (9) Result for the period 6,642 11,053 Financial results mainly include the proceeds of dividends paid by BPI Real Estate Belgium SA (€8 million) and Green Offshore NV (€8.175 million), partially compensated by corporate financial charges. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 30 Statement of Financial Position of CFE SA after appropriation (Belgian standards) (in thousand €) 2024 2023 Assets Non-current assets 314,109 310,461 Current assets 104,415 86,221 Total assets 418,524 396,682 Liabilities Net equity 139,043 142,322 Provisions for risks and expenses 3,988 4,006 Liabilities at more than 1 year 105,355 90,408 Liabilities at up to 1 year 170,137 159,945 Total equity and liabilities 418,524 396,682 As of December 31, 2024, non-current liabilities amount to € 105 million and include amounts drawn down on the confirmed bilateral credit facilities (€75 million) and €30 million in medium-term treasury notes. 2.2. Appropriation of profit Profit for the year 2024 € 6,641,447 Profit brought forward € 11,251,044 Profit to be allocated € 17,892,491 Other reserves € 0 Remuneration of the contribution € 9,920,770 Profit brought forward € 7,971,721 2.3. Outlook 2025 The results for the 2025 financial year will depend to a large extent on the dividends paid by the main subsidiaries of CFE, namely CFE Contracting, BPI Real Estate Belgium, Deep C Holding and Green Offshore. 2.4. Main risks and uncertainties We refer to Chapter II.1.2 of the consolidated financial statements. 2.5. Major events after the closing of the financial year No significant change in the financial and commercial situation of CFE has occurred since 31 December 2024. We also refer to the section II.3 of the consolidated financial statements. 2.6. Financial instruments The Company uses financial instruments for risk management purposes. Specifically, these are financial instruments intended ex­ clusively to manage the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. The counterparties in the related transactions are exclusively top-ranking European banks. 2.7. Notices Research and development The company has no research and development activities. Branches At year-end 2024, the Company disposed of one branch (Business Unit): CFE Tunisia. This branch has no further operational activity. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 31 Application of Article 7:96 section 1 of the CSA The provisions of Article 7:96 of the CSA concerning conflicts of interest did not have to be applied during the 2024 financial year. Transactions between CFE and affiliated companies (Article 7:97 section 4/1 to 4 of the CSA) No transactions took place between the Company and its affiliated companies in the 2024 financial year necessitating the applica­ tion of Article 7:97 section 4/1 to 4 of the CSA. Additional compensation for the auditor EY Réviseurs d’Entreprises received € 163,380 in lump-sum fees for the statutory audit. In accordance with article 3:65, section 3 of the CSA, a total of € 152,840 was paid to EY Réviseurs d’Entreprises as fees for exceptional services or special assignments. This amount is broken down as follows: • other certification assignments (including sustainability assignment): € 142,500 • other assignments outside the review: € 10,340. Acquisition or disposal of treasury shares As at 31 December 2024, CFE held 512,557 of its own shares, representing 2% of the capital. The number of treasury shares is identical to that at 31 December 2023 because the Company did not buy back or sell any of its own shares during the 2024 financial year. On 29 November 2024, the Board of Directors decided, however, to relaunch a share buyback programme up to a maximum of 200,000 shares and within the limits of the (renewed) authorisation to buy back own shares, as granted by the Company’s Extraordi­ nary General Meeting on 2 May 2024. However, this new buyback programme was only launched on 14 January 2025 and will end on 19 December 2025 at the latest. Notices pursuant to Article 74, section 7 of the Act of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids According to a joint declaration made on 7 March 2014 pursuant to the Law of 2 May 2007 on the disclosure of major shareholdings in issuers whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market that the concerted action between VINCI S.A., VINCI Con­ struction S.A.S. and Ackermans & van Haaren NV (“AvH”) ended following the closing of AvH’s mandatory takeover bid for CFE, and Stichting Administratiekantoor “Het Torentje” exercises ultimate control over AvH. As at 31 December 2024, the Company had not received any notification within the meaning of article 74 section 7 of the law of 1 April 2007 relating to public takeover bids. Protection schemes in case of a public takeover bid On 29 June 2022, the extraordinary general meeting renewed the authorisation of the Board of Directors to proceed, in the event of a takeover bid for the securities of the Company, with a capital increase of up to € 5 million within the limits of and in accordance with the provisions of Article 7:202 of the CSA. The Board of Directors is authorised to exercise these powers if the takeover bid notice is delivered by the Financial Services and Markets Authority (the ‘FSMA’) to the Company no later than three years after the date of the aforementioned Extraordinary General Meeting. The Board of Directors is also authorised, for a period of three years from the date of this extraordinary general meeting, sell or acquire up to 20% of the treasury shares in the event that such action is necessary to safeguard the Company from serious and imminent harm. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 32 II. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Comments on the consolidated financial statements 1.1. Financial position at 31/12/2024 A. Key figures (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Revenue 1,182.2 1,248.5 ​-5.3% EBITDA % of revenue 49.9 4.2% 49.5 4.0% ​+0.7% Operating income (EBIT) % of revenue 32.0 2.7% 33.0 2.6% ​-3.1% Result for the period - share of the group % of revenue 24.0 2.0% 22.8 1.8% ​+5.2% (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Equity - share of the group 247.8 236.8 +4.6% Net financial debt 41.7 93.3 -55.3% Order book 1,646.3 1,268.6 +29.8% B. General overview Revenue in 2024 amounted to € 1,182.2 million, down by 5.3% compared with the previous year. The residential and office markets remain unsettled. However, the first signs of recovery are noticeable. Operating income (EBIT) was € 32.0 million, down 3.1% compared to 31 December 2023. The significant increase in contributions from the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments were offset by lower results from the Real Estate Development and In­ vestment & Holding segments. Net income came to € 24.0 million, up by 5.2%. Equity was € 247.8 million on 31 December 2024, an increase of 4.6% compared to 31 December 2023. Return on equity (ROE) reached 10.1%, as in 2023. The Group’s net financial debt was significantly reduced in 2024: € 41.7 million compared to € 93.3 million on 31 December 2023. This excellent performance was driven by a historically high operating cash flow: € 85.3 million. CFE SA, the group’s parent company, and its subsidiaries BPI Real Estate Belgium and BPI Real Estate Luxembourg have together € 250 million of confirmed credit facilities which are drawn down by up to € 78 million as at 31 December 2024. All the banking cove­ nants have been complied with. During 2024, new confirmed credit facilities were set up for € 20 million. CFE has also obtained the agreement of its financial partners to extend all maturing credit facilities. The average interest rate on gross debt is at 4.22% in 2024. The order book is up by 29.8% compared with 31 December 2023, boosted by several major commercial successes, including addi­ tional orders for the Oosterweelverbinding project of which the execution will be spread over several years. The order book reached € 1.65 billion. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 33 C. Segment analysis Real Estate Development KEY FIGURES (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Revenue 125.7 157.7 -20.3% Operating income (EBIT) 8.5 17.4 -51.4% Result for the period - share of the group 8.0 11.7 -31.2% Net financial debt 95.4 100.1 -4.7% Changes in capital employed Breakdown by stage of project development (in million €) 2024 2023 Unsold units post completion 11 0 Properties under construction 48 55 Properties in development 197 204 Total capital employed 256 259 Breakdown by country (in million €) 2024 2023 Belgium 82 66 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 112 105 Poland 62 88 Total capital employed 256 259 The capital employed amounted to € 256 million on 31 December 2024, which is down by 1.2% compared to the end of December 2023. The gross development value of the projects under development (BPI Real Estate share) is estimated at € 1.6 billion, i.e. 363,000 m2 of which 58,000 m2 is under construction. Acquisitions In 2024, BPI Real Estate Luxembourg acquired two additional plots of land on the Pourpelt site in Bertange. BPI currently owns around 30% of the surface area of this future new residential district. In Poland, boosted by the commercial success of phase 1 of the Panoramiqa project in Poznan, BPI Real Estate has secured phases 2 and 3 in the fourth quarter of 2024. These two new phases have the potential for more than 600 additional apartments in four sepa­ rate buildings. Construction should start in 2026 once planning permission has been obtained. Projects in the study phase BELGIUM In Brussels, the permits for the Move’Hub project (54,000 m2, including 38,000 m2 of office space) were received at the end of the year. An appeal has been lodged by the Saint-Gilles commune against the planning permission and by IEB (Inter-Environnement Bruxelles) against the environmental permit. Permits for the Key West (63,300 m2) and Uni’Vert (10,000 m2) projects are also being challenged before the Conseil d’Etat. In Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve, the permit for the Samaya project received a negative advice by the local council. A modified, less dense permit will be introduced in March 2025 that takes into take account the remarks made. In Arlon, BPI Real Estate has obtained the combined permit (permis unique) for its Clarisse project, comprising 60 residential units (6,350 m2). Building permits have been obtained. In Liège, on the Bavière site, planning permission has been granted for the new school building of the Haute Ecole Provinciale du Barbou. The deed of sale with the Province should be signed in April 2025. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 34 LUXEMBOURG BPI Real Estate has appointed the team of architects, ASSAR SHL and Moreno-A2M, for its Kronos project on the Kirchberg plateau. Permits applications will be submitted in the first half of 2025, and dismantling works are scheduled to start in the fourth quarter. In Belval, BPI and its partner are actively preparing for the launch of THE ROOTS project. Preparatory earthworks have been complet­ ed and construction is due to start shortly. This is a mixed-use project comprising 6,000 m2 of office space, 102 apartments and a food market. POLAND Permit applications for the next development phases of the Cavallia site in Poznan are currently being prepared. In Gdansk, an initial permit application for 141 housing units is currently being processed. Start of construction and marketing of new projects BELGIUM Construction of the Brouck’R project, located in the centre of Brussels, began at the end of the year, at the same time as the sale to La Loterie Nationale of its future headquarters. This building - exemplary in terms of sustainability - with an above-ground surface area of 6,800 m2, is under construction. The commercialisation of the first phase of housing units is currently being prepared for launch in the spring of this year. Furthermore, BPI and its partner have launched the major renovation of the EQ building in the European district (approx. 19,000 m2). Advanced discussions are ongoing with prospective tenants or buyers. POLAND In Warsaw, BPI has launched construction of its residential project PianoForte (10,000 m2, 101 housing units). Sales are off to a satis­ factory start. Delivery of the building is scheduled for late 2026. Residential projects under construction or delivered in 2024 BELGIUM In the first half of the year, BPI delivered the PURE project (Auderghem) and the first phase of the Bavière project (19,000 m2). The first is fully sold, while the second has a sales rate of over 80%. In the fourth quarter, the Arboreto project in Tervuren (7,000 m2) and the “Parc” building on the Erasmus Gardens site in Anderlecht (9,000 m2) were delivered, while the last apartments in the Tervuren Square project in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre (12,000 m2) were deliv­ ered in January 2025. The sales rate for these three projects is around 65%. This percentage is rising steadily. In Antwerp, construction of the John Martin’s residential project (10,000 m2) is progressing satisfactorily. As a reminder, this building was pre-sold en bloc to ION Residential Platform NV. Delivery is scheduled for summer 2025. LUXEMBOURG In Mertert, BPI Real Estate has delivered the third phase of the Domaine des Vignes project, while construction of the two blocks of the fourth and final phase (7,000 m2) is well underway. 75% of the apartments in this last phase have been sold, including a block sale of 20 apartments to the Luxembourg government which will be completed in 2025. POLAND Three residential projects were delivered during the second half of 2024, namely Bernardovo in Gdynia (13,000m2), the first phase of Panoramiqa in Poznan (20,000 m2) and Czysta in Wroclaw (10,000 m2). These three projects, totalling 567 residential units, have a near 80% sale rate. Four projects are also currently under construction : Chmielna Duo in Warsaw (17,000 m2) and the first three phases of the Cavallia project (25,000 m2) in Poznan. These projects will be delivered in 2025. New partnership in Poland In December 2024, a year after securing a major property in Gdansk, BPI Real Estate sold 50% of this development to a new player on the Polish market, owned and financed by Belgian investors. This transaction not only frees up BPI Real Estate’s financial resources for new projects, but also lays the foundations for a new long-term partnership. This transaction will have a positive impact on earn­ ings in 2025. EQUITY AND NET FINANCIAL DEBT Shareholders’ equity stood at € 160.3 million on 31 December 2024, stable compared with 31 December 2023. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 35 Net financial debt is € 95.4 million on 31 December 2024 (€ 100.1 million on 31 December 2023). This follows changes in the value of real estate projects. NET INCOME The main contributors to the 2024 net income are the margin generated on apartments sold and delivered, and the profit on the sale of the future headquarters of La Loterie Nationale. In addition, write-downs totalling EU 4.8 million were recorded, mainly on the stock of the Schoettermarial project (residential project on the Kirchberg plateau), which was fully impaired. In view of current market conditions in Luxembourg, BPI Real Estate has decided not to pursue its designs for this project on which it had an option to purchase. Multitechnics KEY FIGURES (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Revenue 304.3 338.0 -10.0% Operating income (EBIT) 10.2 -4.3 n.s. Result for the period - share of the group 6.3 -6.3 n.s. Net financial surplus 25.5 -0.5 n.s. Order book 286.9 266.5 7.7% REVENUE (in million €) 2024 2023 Change VMA 213.2 252.8 -15.7% MOBIX 91.3 85.3 +7.0% Eliminations intra segment -0.2 -0.1 n.s. Total Multitechnics 304.3 338.0 -10.0% VMA achieved a revenue of € 213.2 million on 31 December 2024, down by 15.7% compared to 2023. The drop in sales is attributable to Business Units Building Electro and HVAC, largely due to the completion of the ZIN project. Conversely, the Business Units Mainte­ nance and Industrial Automation reported significantly higher revenue. MOBIX’s revenue increased by 7% to € 91.3 million. Track-laying and catenary business increased in 2024. However, machine utilisa­ tion remains relatively low. The efforts made to diversify its activities and client portfolio are starting to bear fruit. OPERATING INCOME Operating income on 31 December 2024 was € 10.2 million, up by € 14.5 million compared to 31 December 2023. Both divisions were profitable in 2024. The ZIN project continues to weigh on VMA’s results, but to a lesser extent than in 2023. The rest of the business reported good profit­ ability, thereby more than offsetting the loss of the ZIN project. MOBIX’s operating margin improved significantly compared with 2023, despite a negative contribution from the LuWa project, for which the Project Availability Certificate was obtained in the fourth quarter of 2024. ORDER BOOK (in million €) 2024 2023 Change VMA 171.2 163.2 4.9% MOBIX 115.7 103.3 12.0% Total Multitechnics 286.9 266.5 7.7% The order book reached € 286.9 million, up by 7.7% compared to 31 December 2023, boosted by several major commercial successes: • a four-year framework agreement with Walloon network operator ORES to install underground cables in several Walloon prov­ inces; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 36 • installation of all the special techniques in a new industrial building intended for the production of medicines in Gembloux; • an ESCO (Energy Service Company) contract for 18 public buildings in the Flemish municipalities of Beerse and Oud-Turnhout. VMA, through its VManager entity, is in charge of the engineering, renovation and maintenance of these buildings aiming to substantially improve their energy performance; • a four-year framework contract for the STIB covering renewal of the primary energy network and technical equipment; • a framework agreement for the renewal of railway tracks in the Brussels Region; • installation of all special techniques for the future headquarters of La Loterie Nationale. NET FINANCIAL SURPLUS Net financial surplus amounted to € 25.5 million on 31 December 2024, up € 26 million compared to 31 December 2023. The operat­ ing cash flow generated in 2024 (€ 23.5 million) explains this positive evolution. Construction & Renovation KEY FIGURES (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Revenue 788.5 872.6 -9.6% Operating income (EBIT) 8.3 -0.2 n.s. Result for the period - share of the group 10.6 -0.1 n.s. Net financial surplus 255.8 208.9 +22.5% Order book 1,343.5 983.2 +36.6% REVENUE (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Belgium 567.7 622.3 -8.8% Luxembourg 60.2 91.2 -34.0% Poland 159.1 139.7 +13.9% Others 2.1 19.7 n.s. Eliminations intra segment -0.6 -0.3 n.s. Total Construction & Renovation 788.5 872.6 -9.6% Revenue amounted to € 788.5 million, down 9.6% compared to that of 31 December 2023. Business was strong in Brussels, where the largest projects were the second phase of the Park Lane project on the Tour & Taxis site (350 apartments for which the first deliveries have begun) and the ZIN project, for which provisional acceptance was obtained in January 2025. In addition, several operationally challenging BPC projects were delivered to the satisfaction of the customer. In Wallonia, business contracted significantly due to the combination of the delivery of several major projects and a drop in order intake. Conversely, in Flanders business remained relatively strong thanks in particular to the construction of the Q building for Ghent Uni­ versity Hospital, the O’ Sea residential tower in Ostend and block 21/24 Nieuw Zuid in Antwerp. MBG (a Construction & Renovation subsidiary operating in Flanders) has also been very active in the port of Antwerp, where its two projects for INEOS are progressing rapidly. In addition, activity on the Oosterweelverbinding site is picking up. Ultimately, this will represent annual sales of around € 40 to 50 million for CFE. In Luxembourg, the drop in sales was expected, given current market conditions. However, business is expected to grow in 2025, thanks to the start-up of several major construction projects, although it will not return to pre-real estate crisis levels by this year. In Poland, sustained activity for BPI Real Estate (seven buildings under construction, three of which will be delivered in 2024) and several major projects in the logistics and retail sectors contributed to the increase in revenue. As most of these major projects were handed over in the first half of 2024, revenue was lower in the second half of the year. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 39 • the general needs of the Group. To limit the liquidity risk, CFE and some of its subsidiaries increased their sources of financing, of which there are four: • confirmed medium-term bilateral credit lines; • project finance-type loans that certain Business Units set up to finance some of their projects; • leasing agreements for several subsidiary headquarters and for some construction equipment; • treasury notes to cover short and medium-term cash requirements. On 31 December 2024, the Group’s confirmed credit lines were € 250 million, of which € 78 million were drawn. In addition, the Group has € 173.5 million available cash. CFE complied with all of its financial covenants. Exchange rate risks The majority of the Group’s activities are located in the Euro zone, thereby greatly limiting the exchange rate risk. The main exposures are in Poland (fluctuation of the Polish zloty (“PLN”) against the Euro) and at Deep C Holding (foreign exchange risk against to the US dollar (“USD”) and Vietnamese dong (“VND”)). Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to counterparty risk on contracts with private customers. The measures for managing the aforementioned risk are: • financial analysis of customers prior to signing the contracts; • regular monitoring of credit risk trends throughout the life of the project; • where necessary, putting in place start-up advances and/or security or parent company guarantees for customers whose financial strength is deemed insufficient. Risk related to legislative and regulatory changes Legal instability in all its forms represents a significant risk for the Group in terms of legislation, regulations, taxation and case law, not to mention European regulations. The Group responds to this risk by continuously monitoring legislation. Talent management and diversity, equity and inclusion (“DEI”) risk The shortage of skilled talent is a constant challenge, exacerbated by increased competition and labour mobility. The main meas­ ures for managing these risks are: • training: • the attractiveness of the Group, and • putting in place talent retention strategies. Ongoing training is essential to develop employees’ skills and prepare them for future challenges. Group entities must invest on an ongoing basis in training programmes tailored to the specific needs of the construction sector, such as new technologies and sus­ tainable practices. Furthermore, effective retention strategies, such as improved working conditions, performance recognition and career development opportunities, are crucial to retaining talent. Finally, the absence of robust diversity, equity and inclusion (“DEI”) policies can limit the attraction and retention of employees, undermining innovation and productivity. In addition, without a culture of inclusion, the risks of discrimination and harassment in­ crease, which can affect the well-being of employees and expose the Group to litigation. Compliance with non-discrimination regulations is essential to avoid legal penalties. Finally, an inclusive culture strengthens employee commitment and enhances the Group’s reputation, attracting customers and partners who are sensitive to these values. By effectively integrating the DEI principles, Group entities can mitigate these risks and benefit from a more engaged and productive workforce. Environmental risks Generally speaking, companies in the construction sector face a number of major environmental risks. To identify and manage these risks, we need to assess the entire life cycle (“LCA”) of a building or infrastructure project. High CO2 emissions contribute to climate change, requiring measures to reduce the carbon footprint of projects. These emissions come primarily from the manufacture of building materials and developing projects, but we also have to take into account the op­ erational emissions of the buildings and infrastructure we construct, throughout their entire life cycle. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 40 Pollution, particularly from the use of construction materials and site activities, has an impact on air and soil quality. There is a risk of potential contamination of natural environments, as well as a more general risk of impact on biodiversity. The increasing scarcity of materials, aggravated by growing demand and disruptions to supply chains, poses challenges for the sustainability of resources. Waste management is therefore crucial, as construction sites generate large quantities of waste that must be sorted and recycled to minimise their impact on the environment. Finally, water usage is also an important issue, as construction activities consume large quantities of water, and wastewater discharges can pollute water resources. In this regard, the Group is committed to reducing pollution and environmental waste by aiming for “ZERO environmental incidents”. To this end, all Group teams are committed to exemplary behaviour and to rigorously following Quality, Health, Safety and Environ­ ment policies (“QHSE”), which are based on the requirements detailed in ISO 9001, ISO 45001 and ISO 14001 , as well as VCA certifica­ tion. In particular, the Group’s Business Units may be subject to various risks linked to the environmental conditions of the projects in which they are involved. In addition to the economic aspects, environmental risks can also be assessed in terms of image and reputation, as the operation may be affected over the long term by their consequences. From a longer term perspective, changes in regulations related to the ecological transition may also constitute a risk factor. All these risks can therefore generate human, technical, financial and legal issues. The measures for managing the risks are: • analysing these risks as early as the tender phase and developing solutions with the development teams, taking into account these issues as far upstream as possible; • implementing appropriate technical and organisational solutions to reduce risks – bearing in mind that these risks evolve throughout the life of the projects; • restoration costs related to major climatic events may be partially covered by insurance companies. The environmental issues relating to the Group’s activities and their potential impact on the environment are detailed more specifi­ cally in section 2 of the Sustainability Statement. 1.2.3. Operational risks at Group level A distinction should be made between the risks common to the four divisions and those specific to each segment. Risks common to all four segments Risks associated with project execution The main characteristic of the Group’s main activities is the commitment made when submitting a proposal to perform a task that is by its nature unique, for a price with predetermined terms and within an agreed time schedule. The risks are mainly related to: • “upstream phase”, i.e. before the contract is signed: • poor assessment of the project or client; • design and costing errors; • errors in assessing the terms of the contract; • overestimation of available internal resources, and • poor evaluation of subcontracting. • “downstream phase”, i.e. after the contract is signed: • insufficient or inadequate staff and supplies; • difficult customer relations; • encountering the unexpected; • pollution or environmental accidents; • changes imposed by the client during the work; • poor contract management; • changes in the cost of materials and supplies; • supply chain disruption and shortages of raw materials and labour; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 41 • failure of partners (co-contractors, suppliers, subcontractors) or clients; • organisational, technical, contractual, administrative and regulatory difficulties in performing the contractual objective, which may affect the Group’s deadlines, costs, cash flow, quality and reputation, and • dispute of the invoice and the final account by the customer. The measures for managing the aforementioned risks are: • “upstream” : • prior analysis; • negotiation with the client to aim for a balanced sharing of risks; • consideration by the Engagement Committee prior to submitting tenders for projects exceeding a certain threshold; • assessment of the appropriate size of teams involved, and • incorporation of feedback in the design phase. • “downstream” : • organising project site preparation; • setting up specific and appropriate management systems; • applying price revision formulae or upstream consideration of the impact of variations in costs not covered by the formu­ lae; • transferring risk to subcontractors and suppliers; • prior selection of technical solutions and equipment; • dialogue with the customer and project owner; • drafting contractual clauses stipulating reciprocal commitments; • providing payment guarantees, • arranging insurance policies. Risks related to inflation Inflation remains relatively high in both Belgium and Poland, but has largely receded from its peak in 2022-2023. Inflation risk is mitigated by: • inserting a price revision clauses in contracts, and • concluding lump-sum contracts with certain subcontractors and/or suppliers. Economic risks The Group’s four segments are by nature subject to strong cyclical fluctuations. Nevertheless, this observation must be qualified for each segment, since the key factors can vary between them. Thus, the construction and real-estate development activities related to the office property market move in line with the traditional economic cycle, while the residential business depends more directly on general economic conditions, consumer confidence and interest rates. The measures taken by the Group to manage these risks are: • diversification of the Group’s activities; • monitoring of upstream orders through the “selective bidding” procedure, and • monitoring changes in the order book and project performance. Legal risks Segment activities are based on contracts that are subject to a complex regulatory environment as concerns the places where services are performed and the fields of activity involved. Disputes may arise during the performance of contracts, resulting in par­ ticular from assessment differences of new elements during performance, a change in the customer’s governance, new case law, even or a misinterpretation of contractual clauses. Information on the main disputes and arbitrations in which the Group is involved is provided in note 29 (Disputes) of the consoli­ dated financial statements. These disputes are reviewed at the year-end date and, if necessary, provisions are made to cover the estimated risks. Risk management measures mainly involve the inclusion of contractual clauses to : • passing on to the customer any additional costs and/or time resulting from changes made at the customer’s request after the contract has been signed • stopping the work in case of non-payment; • excluding consequential damages; • excluding or limiting liability for existing pollution; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 42 • limiting contractual responsibility for the entire project to a reasonable share of the contract amount; • capping penalties for delay and performance at an acceptable percentage of the contract amount; • providing for an adjustment of the contractual provisions (price, deadline) in the event of legislative, fiscal or regulatory changes; • inserting a force majeure clause (political risk, unilateral decision of the customer or granter, economic disruption, bad weather) or early termination of the project, and • ensuring that insurance cover is activated. Legislative and regulatory compliance Given the diversity of their activities and geographical locations, the Group’s different Business Units are exposed to a specific legis­ lative and regulatory environment which vary depending on the location where the services are provided and the professions con­ cerned. In particular, these must comply with the rules relating to: • the procedures for awarding and performing public or private law contracts; • construction law, particularly the technical rules governing the provision of services, supplies and works, and • environmental law, economic law, labour law, social law and competition law. The Group’s ability to adapt to new regulations and how it monitors standards enables it to significantly control legislative and reg­ ulatory risks. IT security risks In the digital and teleworking era, IT risks increasingly constitute threats that are liable to slow down the activities of the Business Units or compromise the integrity of their most valuable resources and data. The main IT risks are viruses and malware, fraudulent email, cyber-attacks, loss of confidential information, operating errors, risk of physical loss or theft, and misappropriation. CFE’s risk management measures can be summarised as follow: • installation of professional antivirus software on all workstations and servers, with regular updates; • installing additional authentication systems for technical users (administrators); • implementing Privileged Identity Management (“PIM”) controls to grant specific high-privilege actions only to standard IT users for a limited time and after approval by a central high-level expert; • installing security solutions for cloud solutions (SaaS) used by CFE and to secure Internet use : • using secure tunnels (“VPN”) to connect users working remotely ; • removing public access to critical applications via the Internet without a VPN; • delivering regular cyber security training and awareness-building sessions for all staff, sharing how to protect yourself from a cyber security attack (phishing, data theft etc.); • adding a professional service to Outlook for reporting and analysing “phishing” e-mails; • implementing an email protection solution that scans all incoming emails and blocks phishing attempts and known malware before they reach the inboxes of CFE employees; • implementing a well-configured and up-to-date complex password and multi-factor authentication strategy; • using external service providers to analyse systems and alert on anomalies pointing to a potential security incident; • using the Chief Information Security Officers to audit the implementation of our security policies; • commissioning a red teaming exercise carried out by an ethical hacker on some of the Group’s entities to check the effective­ ness of the security protection systems and their effective implementation; • restricting access to confidential and sensitive records according to user profiles: in this regard, records and resources are partitioned by department, with authentication; • setting up an effective backup system; • systematically training employees in the use of applications and software; • systematically checking each request for a new application against a security checklist to ensure that it complies by design with the Group’s security policies, or giving advice on their implementation, and • an annual assessment by the Group’s IT partner of its IT security and business continuity practices, using a maturity question­ naire. The year 2024 was characterised by numerous interventions by dedicated IT teams, with no significant consequences for the Busi­ ness Units concerned. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 43 Operational risks specific to the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments Risks related to customer solvency Both these segments are exposed to the risk of customer insolvency. The measures for managing these risks are: • checking the creditworthiness of customers when submitting tenders; • regularly monitoring the outstanding amounts owed by customers and adapting, if necessary, the position of the Business Unit concerned vis-à-vis the customer, and • for customers showing a material credit risk, requiring down payments and/or first demand bank guarantees before work starts. Risks related to the management and workforce The challenge of attracting and retaining talent is essential in a group where the construction business is evolving very quickly and where specialisation and job-specific expertise gives a competitive advantage in responding to calls for tender. The Construction and Renovation activities and the Multitechnics segment are experiencing a chronic shortage of qualified supervi­ sory staff and workers. The success of projects, in the study, preparation and execution phases, depends both on employees’ qualifi­ cations and skills and on their availability in the labour market. The measures taken by the Group to manage these risks are: • increasing the skills of the Group’s employees through a human capital development cycle; • setting up a training programme for each employee; • developing programmes to promote internal mobility, and • setting up local partnerships with economic, social, institutional and academic stakeholders. Contractual risks related to public-private partnerships The legal and contractual risks are even greater in a public-private partnership contract (in the form of, for example, Design, Build, Finance and Maintain (“DBFM”) contracts, concession contracts, ESCO energy performance contracts etc.), which may vary in du­ ration from a few years to several decades. The risks are assessed before bid submission during the study phase, which is generally much longer than for a conventional construction contract. The main risks connected with the operation of assets given in conces­ sion relate to maintaining the viability of the asset in view of the maintenance, energy and repair objectives defined in the conces­ sion contract. For any building or infrastructure that is operated under a public-private partnership contract, the equipment renewal cost and the works maintenance cost must be provided for on the basis of a forecast major maintenance plan. The measures to manage these risks can be summarised as follows: • discussion by the Engagement Committee prior to tendering; • setting up the operation in a special purpose vehicle with financing that is for the most part provided through debt without recourse or with limited recourse against the shareholders; • involvement of the lenders in the early stages of the projects, and • seeking advice from external consultants. Legal risks related to social and labour law The social risks faced by both the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments are based on the cross-border subcon­ tracting chain mainly in the construction sector. The main risks identified for construction sites in Belgium are the qualification of first-tier subcontracts, occupation and the absence of a checkin@work statement. Failure to comply with social legislation may constitute a legal and reputational risk. The following risk management measures are therefore in place: • putting in place sub-contracting policies; • implementing training applicable to all Business Units; • carrying out social audits of subcontractors on site with particular attention to compliance with social obligations, and • half-yearly analysis of social risks and establishing action plans. The BPC Group Business Unit has been summoned several times in recent years to appear before the Courts and Tribunals for cases in these matters, for alleged breaches of employment law committed by subcontractors. The first three cases brought by the Belgian Labour Inspectorate and involving the BPC Business Unit all resulted in favourable decisions before the Brussels Court of Appeal, which Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 99 Scope 3 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030. Although these targets are compatible with the reduction ambitions of the Paris agreements, they are not formally validated by the SBTi. These targets will be determined according to the emission inten­ sity of the various materials. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a,g Table 18 : Percentage of GHG emissions covered by a reduction target and/or plan Datapoints 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 Percentage of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 100% ESRS E1-1 16 a GHG emissions for scope 3 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 0% ESRS E1-1 16 a 2.2.4.1 Transition plan, objectives and progress Direct emissions: Scope 1 and 2 As of 2021, CFE is committed to reducing its GHG emissions intensity by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. In 2024, CFE reviewed its objectives by committing to reduce its absolute GHG emissions by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. This target is com­ patible with the Paris Agreements and is in line with the SBTi (but has not been officially validated by the SBTi). ESRS E1-4 33 Scope 1 and 2 emissions mainly concern production activities, i.e. Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics. It is therefore in these activities that actions aimed at limiting GHG emissions are mainly deployed. On the other hand, efforts relating to the fleet (company cars) concern all the Group’s activities. ESRS E1-4 34b Lever 1 - Mobility and logistics The first lever activated concerns mobility. As far as company cars are concerned, a mobility plan that benefits workers has been rolled out across the Group to encourage the adoption of alternative modes of transport such as cycling or public transport. Electric cars are widely encouraged. To facilitate adoption, charging stations are installed at most of the Group’s worksites. The fill rate of the vans as well as their routes are being optimised, and tests are being carried out with hybrid and electric vans. Finally, trucks and other heavy construction equipment are gradually being replaced by less polluting vehicles. Mobility-related actions alone repre­ sent a potential 28% reduction in total GHG scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030. Lever 2 - Site energy consumption A second tool for limiting GHG production is to reduce energy consumption for site installations. On site, we monitor energy con­ sumption and can now optimise consumption by tracking down abnormal over-consumption in particular. Understanding of this consumption is supported by improvements in the insulation of the building site containers, as well as various corrective measures. Solar panels are also installed on many construction sites. The positioning of the site installations therefore also takes into account the optimisation of sunlight for the site cabins. In general, the use of green electricity is recommended on construction sites when­ ever possible. The reduction potential of these actions is of the order of 15% by 2030. Particular attention is paid to generators used for site start-up or as occasional back-up for winter heating needs. These generators consume large amounts of energy. Pilot studies are being carried out with batteries or hydrogen generators. The reduction potential has not yet been assessed, as current technologies are not yet efficient. Lever 3 - Office energy consumption For existing head offices where CFE owns the premises, energy audits have been carried out as well as renovations to keep energy consumption to a minimum. Solar panels and energy management systems have also been installed. Finally, BPC, BPI Real Estate, CLE, Van Laere, VMA and CFE’s head office have moved into new buildings designed and built by the group’s entities, all of which are very low-energy buildings. CFE’s new Wood Hub headquarters is particularly exemplary in terms of energy consumption. The building is heated and cooled by geothermal energy and heat pumps, and is equipped with 300 solar panels. This makes Wood Hub almost energy independent, with primary energy consumption of no more than 8.59 kWh per m2. Compared with the current aver­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 100 age of 180 kWh/m2/year for office buildings, Wood Hub stands out as an exceptional NZEB (Nearly Zero Energy Building), designed for the future. The reduction potential of these actions is fairly limited (less than 1%), as total energy consumption in offices is very low compared with construction sites. Nevertheless, these actions are necessary to be consistent with other actions and to establish a real corporate culture around the challenges of climate change. Although we have taken advantage of most of the levers for reducing GHG emissions from scopes 1 and 2, CFE continues to seek further optimisation of its energy consumption. The company regularly tests new pilot projects on its worksites, and closely monitors technological advances and innovations in this field. Particular attention is paid to construction site generators, for which current technology unfortunately does not yet meet market expectations. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j, ESRS E1-4 34f, 16b To ensure that these various measures are followed up, and that worksites choose the solutions best suited to their situation, CFE has compiled all solutions that bring good results in a handbook called the ‘Greenbook’. By 2024, CFE has already achieved an absolute reduction of 25% in total scope 1 and 2 compared with the 2020 reference values. The expected results for 2024 were to achieve a 16% reduction on 2020 values. These excellent results are due in particular to the rapid adoption of on-site energy optimisation methods and an effective fleet greening policy. ESRS E1-3 29 b Table 19 : Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by source Scope 1 and 2 results of actions taken Unit 2020 Reference 2023 N-1 2024 N Improvement on N-1 Improvement on reference year Scope 1 tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,974.47 11,235.58 -20% -29% Fleet tCO2eq 11,713.19 9,821.61 8,329.56 -15% -29% Fuel tCO2eq 3,319.34 3,078.64 1,966.17 -36% -41% Gas tCO2eq 779.64 992.62 899.72 -9% 15% Refrigerants tCO2eq 0.00 81.60 40.13 -51% Scope 2 tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,412.11 1,954.99 38% 4% Electricity tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,342.15 1,742.15 30% -7% Electricity for the fleet tCO2eq 0.00 69,96* 212.84 204% Total scope 1 and 2 tCO2eq 17,684.17 15,386.58 13,190.57 -14% -25% *In the previous year’s report (2023), GHG emissions linked to electric vehicle charging were erroneously calculated in scope 1 instead of scope 2, which explains the minimal deviation in scope 1 and 2 values for 2023 (67.69 tCO2eq). However, total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2023 remain unchanged ESRS E1-3 29 b, ESRS E1-4 34 a,b Indirect emissions: Scope 3 In 2024, CFE carried out a complete analysis of its indirect emissions according to the GHG Protocol. This analysis highlighted the material categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions, which are “purchases of goods and services”, which accounts for 92% of emissions, “use of products sold”, which accounts for 7% of emissions, and to a lesser extent “goods and equipment”, which accounts for 1% of emissions. In the “purchases of goods and services” category, this analysis shows that a small category of materials is responsible for the majority of these emissions. These include concrete, steel, façade elements and, to a lesser extent, technical building instal­ lations such as HVAC, piping, cabling, etc. Taking into account this analysis, as well as current technologies, information and con­ struction methods, CFE has defined its objectives for 2030. CFE has carried out an in-depth study of the stated objectives of its value chain, in particular those of suppliers of materials with a high impact on GHG emissions. Based on this information, CFE has set itself the target of reducing its Scope 3 emissions by 20% by 2030, based on 2024 values. A detailed reduction plan has yet to be drawn up, requiring a more granular analysis of the data. Specific targets for the “use of products sold” category will also be defined from 2025. The 20% reduction target applies to the entire CFE group. ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-4 33, ESRS E1-4 34b As 2024 is the reference year, so far there are no measurable results from the actions undertaken. ESRS E1-3 29 b Lever 1 - Sustainable suppliers and materials The main lever for reducing scope 3 GHGs is therefore the commitment of suppliers who themselves have targets and reduction plans in line with the Paris agreements. Alongside this lever, CFE also wants to take a pro-active approach. As a developer, BPI Real Estate is committed to developing sustainable projects and limiting both the level of embodied carbon and Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 101 the carbon content of its buildings. BPI Real Estate uses Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) in accordance with EN19578 and relies on the taxonomy’s criteria wherever possible. As Multitechnics contractors and companies, CFE actively proposes sustainable and innovative alternatives at the tender stage or even during project execution. These may be reused material alternatives, bio-sourced materials, or others. A centralised centre of expertise supports field teams in developing these sustainable variants and solutions, and also centralises best practices in a database available to all Group employees. CFE is also involved in innovative pilot projects, such as the Buildwise project to optimise site logistics through the use of consolida­ tion centres with Buildwise. Lever 2 - Stimulating change in the sector CFE participates in, and/or chairs, numerous sector-specific working groups aimed at implementing large-scale sustainable and innovative solutions. In particular, this concerns the circular economy, the adoption of the “CO2 performance ladder”, the revision of public specifications, etc. CFE is also particularly active in the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Construction (BA4SC), which brings together representatives of the various professional associations in the construction sector around the themes of sustainability and climate change in particular. Lever 3 - Opportunities in the business model CFE has also launched three new Business Units aimed at bringing a new, more sustainable approach to construction projects. They are Wood shapers, Vmanager and Pulse. Wood Shapers, a subsidiary of the CFE group, specialises in sustainable construction using mainly wood and other bio-sourced materials. With its focus on reducing carbon footprints and using recyclable materials, Wood Shapers contributes to greener con­ struction. Furthermore, the spaces created by the company are designed to enhance the well-being of occupants through healthy materials and safer working environments. VMA offers ESCO services that provide guaranteed energy performance to clients who so desire. In 2020, VMA launched Vmanager, a piece of software and an App targeting energy savings, energy flow management and, in general, construction technology man­ agement. This innovative tool facilitates intelligent and sustainable management of new and renovated buildings by combining VMA’s technical expertise, intensive monitoring and tools to supervise and control their actual energy performance. The develop­ ment of Vmanager combined with the know-how of VMA makes it possible to offer a global solution for energy management. Finally, Pulse specialises in property redevelopment, offering an integrated solution to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase occupant comfort. The company offers services ranging from energy and environmental audits to com­ plete building renovation and the installation of innovative technologies. Pulse aims to increase the value of its clients’ real estate assets while meeting environmental requirements and guaranteeing an optimal return on investment. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j Summary table of GHG reduction targets Table 20: GHG reduction targets Specific CO2 reduction targets Reference year Reference value target year for the objective value 2024 reduction in 2024 compared with the reference year expected reduction in target year since refer­ ence year tCO2eq tCO2eq % tCO2eq % tCO2eq Scope 1-2 market based 2020 17,683.79 2030 13,190.57 -25% -4,493.22 -40% -7,073.52 Scope 3 2024 482,306.42 2030 482,306.42 0% 0.00 -20% -96,461.28 ­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 102 other actions concern raising awareness or switching to alternative means of transport, which are included in the Group’s mobility plan. This plan takes into account all aspects of mobility (TCO, taxes, etc.) and does not involve any particular costs or investments. Levers 2 and 3: Energy consumption on site and in the offices To limit this, on-site consumption is monitored daily to prevent energy wastage, solar panels are being installed on the site barracks and more efficient generators are being used. There are no major costs associated with these actions, as the reduction in con­ sumption generally offsets the investment in equipment. These amounts are marginal. At the same time, a switch to green energy has already been in place since 2020. The relocation of CFE and its subsidiaries BPC, BPI, CLE, VMA and Van Laere to new buildings that consume very little energy (notably Wood Hub), as well as the renovation of other group headquarters, has also significantly reduced the group’s energy consumption. CFE has not identified any assets whose economic lifetime should be reduced. Note on CAPEX aligned with European taxonomy Capex plays an essential role in the development of sustainable activities. These relate to equipment and machinery, CFE’s own fleet and, to a lesser extent, CFE’s offices and production sites. In 2024, a total of EUR 27 million was invested in these categories, 13.97% of which was directly linked to sustainable projects, in accordance with the EU taxonomy. Indirect emissions: Scope 3 At this stage, it is too early to draw conclusions on the resources supporting the transition plan for Scope 3 emissions. It’s a complex subject because it concerns the entire value chain. A more detailed analysis will be carried out in 2025. Nevertheless, the initial trends are as follows: The CFE group’s activities will be developed to reduce costs in terms of CO2 emissions, particularly in terms of the choice of materi­ als and transporting materials and waste in the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments. It is also expected that the proportion of renovation and energy-efficiency renovation work will increase as the regulatory framework evolves. The financial impact of the choice of materials or the development of new approaches to transport is estimated at the project submission stage and then incorporated into the commercial offer submitted to the customer. This study is carried out on a pro­ ject-by-project basis, so margins are re-evaluated at the start of each new order. On the other hand, a residual risk is the cost of the inefficiencies inherent in learning new production techniques or new approaches to logistics. This is because it is not always possi­ ble to anticipate (both at contractual level and when preparing for project implementation) and quantify with sufficient accuracy. The real estate business systematically includes solutions for reducing the energy consumption of buildings during the develop­ ment of new projects. In addition, renovation projects for existing buildings are becoming increasingly common. Once the land has been acquired to develop a project, a feasibility study is carried out. The cost price of the project is estimated and incorporated into the commercial offer made to customers. Specific framework To ensure that these actions are implemented, CFE has strengthened its management team with local Sustainability Officers work­ ing in the various Business Units, as well as a team working at the holding company to consolidate information and support local teams. The cost of this specific framework is included in “operating costs” as presented in the Financial Report on page 128. Further details will be provided from 2025 onwards. ESRS E1-3 29 ci, ESRS E1-1 16c The resources linked to the transition plan will be reassessed in greater detail in 2025 to analyse the costs linked to the scope 3 re­ duction plan, once this has been finalised. Similarly, an analysis will be made to take account of the 2050 targets and the corresponding reduction plan once it has been final­ ised. No significant capital investment is planned for economic activities related to thermal coal, nuclear power or fossil fuel. ESRS E1-1 16 f; ESRS E1-3 29 c ii,16 c & c iii,16 c 2.2.4.3 Risks of blocking GHG emissions Capital expenditure (CAPEX) has been assessed and the blocking risk has not been considered significant. ESRS E1-1 16 d 2.2.4.4 EU benchmarks aligned with Paris agreements Neither CFE nor any of its subsidiaries are excluded from the EU benchmarks aligned with the Paris agreements. ESRS E1-1 16 g Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 103 2.2.5. E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 2.2.5.1 Total GHG footprint Gross greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG protocol. This means that they are not limited to car­ bon dioxide (CO2) alone, but also include other greenhouse gases such as methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). ESRS E1-6 AR 39b For the CFE group, the limits of GHG reporting under financial (accounting) and operational control are the same. This is due to the fact that all Business Units are fully integrated into the consolidated financial statements. Projects under joint control (joint ventures or joint operations) are accounted for according to CFE’s share (pro-rata) in the project. This integrated approach ensures that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting is consistent with financial reporting. ESRS E1-6 50 Table 21 : GHG emissions by scope Datapoints Unit 2020 reference year 2022 2023 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 Total gross Scope 1 GHG emissions tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,914.14 13,974.48 11,235.58 ESRS E1-6 48 a Percentage of scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading schemes % 0% 0% 0% 0% ESRS E1-6 48 b GHG emissions for scope 2 Total gross scope 2 lease-based GHG emissions tCO2eq NC* NC NC 3.520,07 ESRS E1-6 49 a, 52 a Total gross scope 2 market-based GHG emissions tCO2eq 1.872.00 1,394.96 1,412.11 1,954.99 ESRS E1-6 49 b, 52 b Significant GHG emissions for scope 3 Total gross indirect scope 3 GHG emissions tCO2eq NC NC NC 482,306.42 ESRS E1-6 51 Category 1. Purchased goods and services tCO2eq NC NC NC 445,204.25 Category 2. Capital goods tCO2eq NC NC NC 4,968.62 Category 3. Fuel and energy-related activities tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 4. Upstream transportation and distribution tCO2eq NC NC NC Included in Category 1 Category 5. Waste generated in operations tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 6. Business travel tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 7. Employee commuting tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 8. Upstream leased assets tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 9. Downstream transportation and distri­ bution tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 10. Processing of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 11. Use of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC 32,133.75 Category 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC Included in Category 1 Category 13. Downstream leased assets tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 14. Franchises tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 15. Investments tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 location based tCO2eq NC NC NC 497,062.07 ESRS E1-6 44, 52 a Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 market based tCO2eq NC NC NC 495,496.99 ESRS E1-6 44, 52 b Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 104 Datapoints Unit 2020 reference year 2022 2023 2024 Reference GHG emissions outside scope 1-2-3 Direct biogenic carbon emissions (Scope 1-2-3) NC NC NC Not applicable ESRS E1-6 AR 43c, 45e, 46j *NC means not considered ESRS E1-6 44, 46d ; ESRS ­E1-6 48 a,b, 49 a,b, 52 a,b,­ 51, AR43c, AR45e, AR46j Table 22 : Désagrégation des émissions de GES par segment d’activité Disaggregation of 2024 GHG emissions by business segment Unit Construction and Renovation segment Real Estate Develop­ ment segment Multitechnics segment Investment and Holdings segment Total gross GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 market based tCO2eq 6,530.58 53.81 6,518.67 87.51 Total significant gross Scope 3 GHG emissions tCO2eq 337,228.42 36,513.53 108,564.46 Non-material Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 market based tCO2eq 343,759.00 36,567.34 115,083.13 Non-material ESRS E1-6 AR 41 Scope 1 – direct emissions Direct emissions are reported according to the GHG protocol and are calculated for all Group activities. The Holdings and Invest­ ment segment, of which CFE does not exercise exclusive control, only takes into account emissions linked to the head office. Emis­ sions come mainly from the fleet (cars, vans and trucks) and energy (gas and fuel oil) used on construction sites and at the Group’s various headquarters. The fleet alone accounts for 74% of these emissions. The emission factors used to calculate Scope 1 direct emissions are taken from the database www.CO2emissiefactoren.be. This database is regularly updated, and the factors taken into account relate to the year 2024. ESRS E1-6 AR39 b The accuracy level is 100% based on primary data. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c Scope 2 – indirect emissions Scope 2 emissions, as reported according to the GHG protocol, are calculated for all group activities, with the exception of the In­ vestments and Holdings segment, for which CFE does not have operational management. They include indirect GHG emissions mainly arising from the production of electricity purchased and consumed by CFE and its subsidiaries. Scope 2 emissions based on location are calculated by multiplying purchased electricity volumes by the emission factors specific to each country. To calculate Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions using the market-based approach, CFE relies on green electricity contracts as the contractual instruments for the electricity purchased. In total, CFE’s commitment is reflected in the fact that 73% of the kWh purchased and con­ sumed uses green electricity. This percentage of green electricity corresponds fully to combined contractual instruments. Percentage of contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy grouped with attributes concerning energy gener­ ation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions. 73% Percentage of contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy attribute claims not grouped in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions. 0% ESRS E1-6 45d The emission factors used to calculate emissions from electricity used in Belgium come from the www.CO2emissiefactoren.be data­ base and from www.aib-net.org. The emission factors used to calculate emissions from the energy mix in Poland, Luxembourg and Germany come from the www.aib-net.org database. Finally, the emission factors used to calculate emissions from location-based electricity in Poland, Luxembourg and Germany come from the Statista database. These databases are regularly updated, and the factors taken into account relate to the year 2024, or the most recent values if those for 2024 are not available. ESRS E1-6 AR39b The accuracy level is estimated at 100% based on primary data. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 105 Scope 3 – indirect emissions Scope 3 emissions are reported according to the GHG protocol, with the Scope 3 inventory divided into 15 categories. CFE plans to gradually improve the accuracy of the values reported for Scope 3. 2024 is considered a reference year for determin­ ing a base value on which CFE can set its decarbonisation targets. In 2024, CFE will only report on those categories of scope 3 that are material, i.e. whose value is greater than 1% of the total value of scope 3. The calculation method used in 2024 means that the categories ‘Upstream transportation and distribution’ and ‘end-of-life treat­ ment of sold products’ are already included in the ‘Purchased goods and services’ category. This is due to the fact that almost all the emission factors used in category 1 concern full EPDs integrating the end of the production cycle and transportation of products. This methodology is applied to avoid double counting. Next year this figure will be disaggregated as far as possible to reflect a cor­ rect allocation, in order to be fully aligned with the GHG Protocol. ESRS E1-6 AR 46 i, 46 h The following relevant categories have been identified at this stage as material in line with the methods used to estimate emissions: • Category 1: Purchased goods and services: This category mainly concerns emissions linked to the manufacture and use of materials in projects carried out by the Group. In 2024, the calculation method used is as follows. CFE has listed the types of materials which, according to recent studies in the sector, account for the largest share of emissions linked to their production (around 80%). CFE then inventoried all the expenses linked to these materials and services. Finally, the selected expenditure is multiplied by the corresponding generic emission factors. These emission factors are taken from generic EPDs. • Category 2: Capital goods: The starting point for this category is the CFE balance sheet. Capital goods are classified under ‘property, plant and equipment’. This section can be divided into the following categories: • Land - Buildings - Equipment - Vehi­ cles. Each of these categories is associated with a CAPEX value, which is multiplied by a corresponding generic emission factor. These emission factors are taken from generic EPDs. • Category 11: Use of sold products: This concerns energy consumption for the next 50 years in buildings developed by BPI Real Estate, and in buildings for which an ESCO-type contract has been signed with Vmanager. The basis for calculating scope 3 is directly linked to the provisional EPB of the buildings under construction. Non-material categories: 3. Fuel and energy-related activities, 5. Waste generated in operations, 6. Business travel, 7. Employee commuting, 15. Investments. Categories accounted for elsewhere: 4. Upstream transportation and distribution is included in category 1. Purchased goods and services, 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products is recorded in category 1. Purshased goods and services Categories that do not apply to CFE activities: 8. Upstream leased assets, 9. Downstream transportation and distribution, 10. Process­ ing of sold products, 13. Downstream leased assets and 14. Franchises. ESRS E1-6, AR 46 i The Scope 3 figures disclosed should be considered as initial estimates, mainly based on expenditure data or provisional EPB. This results in 0% primary data. These estimates are subject to subsequent adjustments. More granular activity data will be implemented over the coming years. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c, E1-6, AR 46 g The conversion factors used for categories 1 and 2 come either from generic EPDs, or from material-specific databases. These are ADEME, INIES and Climatiq. For concrete materials, the EPDs used come from Fedbeton. For category 11, the conversion factors used are the same as those used to calculate location based on scopes 1 and 2. ESRS E1-6 AR39 b Scope 3 emissions are calculated and reported for the first time in 2024. There are no changes in scope or method to report for Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are presented for the first time in 2024, distinguishing between “market-based” and “location-based” values. In the past, only market-based values were reported. There are no events to report that could have had a significant impact on the values reported. ESRS E1-6 47, 42c 2.2.5.2 GHG intensity based on net revenues Carbon intensity is calculated by dividing the quantity of CO2 produced by the consolidated turnover of the past year for all CFE and subsidiary activities. ESRS E1-6 53, 55 & AR55 This calculation method differs from that used in previous years. The relative emissions previously reported were calculated by Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 113 3.1.11. S1-14 Health and safety metrics Since safety is a major concern, CFE has developed QHSE dashboards to keep close track of the trend in the figures and to take the necessary remedial action as soon as possible. The severity rate (one of the traditional security indicators) was chosen to be one of the KPI’s governing our sustainability linked loans with the banks. The dashboards, which contain the main information for each subsidiary, are updated at least once a month to keep track of the safety data. They include traditional safety information (frequency and severity rates etc.) but also indicators of proactive safety actions (toolbox meetings, management involvement, taking into account incidents and feedback, etc.). This data covers 100% of the Group’s own workers. This does not include self-employed workers, temporary staff or subcontractors. The monitoring of this data follows the rules prescribed by ISO 9001 and the Belgian legal definitions for safety indicators: • Frequency rate = number of lost-time accidents x 1 million divided by the number of working hours. • Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of working hours. • A lost-time accident is an accident in the workplace resulting in at least one day’s incapacity, not including the day of the acci­ dent. • An accident without incapacity is an accident that does not result in incapacity for work beyond the day of the accident. • A first aid accident is an accident requiring only first aid on the spot. These are not included in this report. • Recordable incidents are the sum of lost-time accidents and accidents without incapacity (excluding first-aid). • The frequency rate is calculated as follows: number of lost-time accidents x 1,000,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The severity rate is calculated as follows: Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The recordable incident rate is calculated as follows: number of recordable incidents x 1,000,000 divided by number of hours worked. ESRS S1-14 87 Table 28: Data on accidents involving our own workforce 2022 2023 2024 % of workers included in the health and safety risk management 100 100 100 Number of work-related fatalities (own workforce) 0 0 0 Number of work-related fatalities (subcontractor or third party) 1 1 0 Number of recordable accidents (excluding first aid) 145 139 115 Number of lost-time accidents 93 77 64 Frequency rate 21.96 18.47 15.34 Severity rate 0.72 0.68 0.56 Recordable accident rate NC NC 27.55 Number of cases of illness directly linked to work 0 0 0 Number of days lost due to an accident at work 3,050 2,847 2,321 The number of accidents reported and the number of days lost correspond to data recorded and validated by insurers for Belgium and Luxembourg. In Poland, on the other hand, accidents and their consequences are recorded in national records. This information is therefore robust, complete and reliable. ESRS S1-14 88 The safety of subcontractors is also taken into account in a specific dashboard (see chapter 3.2.7). 3.1.11.1 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts No offences or complaints of discrimination or failure to respect human rights were recorded in 2024. No fines have been reapplied either. ESRS S1-17 3.2. ESRS S2: Workers in the value chain This analysis focuses specifically on subcontractors rather than the entire value chain of a construction project. The main reason is that the value chain in this sector is often very long and fragmented, involving many different players with varying roles. Further­ more, there is not always direct contact with the lower links in this chain, which makes it difficult to assess all the potential risks and impacts in a comprehensive and accurate way. By focusing on subcontractors, who are key partners and directly involved in site operations, it is possible to implement more targeted and effective safety measures, ensuring better management of material risks and a significant improvement in working conditions. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 114 3.2.1. SBM2 Interests and views of stakeholders Collaboration and dialogue with subcontractors are essential elements of CFE’s group strategy. We consider them as important as our own workforce. By fostering open, ongoing communication, we ensure that subcontractors are fully integrated into our process­ es and share our safety and quality objectives. This collaborative approach strengthens relationships based on trust, improves co­ ordination on construction sites and ensures that everyone works together harmoniously and efficiently. By valuing the contributions of subcontractors and treating them as key partners, we create a safer, more productive working environment for all. ESRS 2 SBM-2 3.2.2. SBM3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model The DMA exercise (chap 1.5.1) has demonstrated that health and safety are material sub-themes for CFE and its subcontractors. In particular, there is a significant risk of negative impact, as accidents can occur on site, leading to serious incapacity, permanent after-effects and even death. The heart of CFE’s business happens on the construction sites. The work is carried out by CFE’s own workers or by subcontractors. At present, there’s no way of carrying out these projects without manpower. Every effort must therefore be made to limit these risks. CFE considers that it is just as important to fight to limit safety risks on site for its own workforce as for subcontractors, since every human being deserves to be treated equally in the face of danger. The analysis carried out in chapter 3.1.2 therefore also covers the entire value chain. ESRS S2-SBM-3 11 a,c 3.2.3. S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers CFE has adopted a series of policies that apply both to its own workforce and to the various parties involved on site. These include the Human Rights Policy and the QHSE Policy. These documents are described in detail in chapter 3.1.3. A Code of Conduct for commercial partners has also been drawn up. It includes an obligation to comply with the internal Code of Conduct, and in particular to respect the safety rules set out in the QHSE policy. The obligation to comply with local and European laws and regulations, as well as with the aforementioned policies, are an integral part of the contractual clauses for sub-contractors. ESRS S2-16, 17, 18, 19 3.2.4. S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts Ongoing dialogue with the various parties involved on our worksites is a priority, and this primarily concerns safety. The onboarding of all subcontractors is formalised by means of a short training session introducing the site, the contact persons and the specific rules relating to the project. It is vital to ensure that everyone can identify the various stakeholders involved, and knows who to contact in the event of any problems. The site manager will ensure that all this information is understood by providing training in a language that the workers understand. Each team should have a manager who speaks one of the project’s national languages, to ensure that he or she can communicate with the site management teams at all times. Formal meetings are held at least once a week with subcontractors working on the site. To ensure that these meetings run smoothly, team leaders from the various subcontractors represent their companies. These meetings are followed by a clear report setting out the actions to be taken by the various parties involved, an update on the schedule and an overview of the phases to come. A LEAN and collaborative approach is adopted on all projects. Engagement with the value chain on worksites on safety issues, using a LEAN approach, is essential to ensure a safe and efficient working environment. Secondly, value chain mapping enables us to analyse each stage of the construction process, from design to delivery, and detect critical points where safety incidents may occur. A culture of safety must be established, with visible leadership where managers set the example by respecting and valuing safety practices and open communication. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation of safety performance, through key indicators and regular site visits, ensures compliance with standards and identifies areas for improvement. By integrating these LEAN principles into worksite safety management, it is possible to create a safer, more efficient and more col­ laborative working environment. The key lies in the commitment of all players in the value chain and in a culture of continuous im­ provement. Penalties are foreseen and communicated for any worker who does not respect the safety rules in force on projects. ESRS S2-2 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 115 3.2.5. S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns To remedy negative impacts on sites, it is essential to put in place a structured process and effective communication channels. This process begins with the identification and assessment of potential impacts. This includes carrying out risk analyses to identify potential hazards and assess their severity and probability. At the start of site activities, each subcontractor is required to share this specific risk analysis with the site management team, in order to analyse the resources to be implemented and responsibilities to­ gether. Once the impacts have been identified, preventive and/or corrective measures must be implemented. This can include modifying work procedures, improving safety equipment, or training workers to better manage identified risks. It is crucial to document these measures and ensure that they are clearly communicated to all team members. To enable workers in the value chain to voice their concerns, several communication channels need to be established: Onboarding new workers: This onboarding provides information and training for new workers on a project. In particular, the organi­ sational chart of site management and their contact details are provided to facilitate future exchanges. Regular meetings: Weekly safety meetings are organised on projects where workers can discuss safety issues and propose solu­ tions. Direct communication lines: Subcontractors are encouraged to communicate any concerns or comments directly with site teams as a matter of priority. Mobile applications: On most worksites, a mobile app enables workers to report incidents or concerns quickly and easily. Security representatives: The site’s QHSE manager, along with the entire site management team, makes regular visits to the site, enabling direct interaction with all those involved. It’s also important to create a safety culture where workers feel comfortable reporting problems without fear of reprisal. This is en­ couraged by visible, committed leadership that values and respects workers’ contributions to safety. Finally, it is essential to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the measures put in place, by tracking safety indicators. ESRS S2-3 27, 28 3.2.6. S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions Each project is unique and requires a specific risk analysis. This exercise must be carried out both by the project management team and by subcontractors. This analysis must be carried out before work begins, to enable a dialogue with the project’s management teams and to validate the most suitable working methods for limiting risks together. Scheduling will also be defined in such a way as to keep co-activities between workers to a minimum. Weekly site meetings allow us to see whether or not we need to adapt or correct the chosen work methods. Everyone involved in a project is jointly responsible for their own safety and that of others. On the other hand, subcontracting agree­ ments specify in detail the roles and responsibilities of all parties involved. Among other things, it defines who is responsible for the breakdown and maintenance of collective protection equipment. Each subcontractor is responsible for his or her own personal protective equipment. On the other hand, the site management team will ensure that each employee uses the equipment correctly. The site management team will ensure that a responsible, collaborative and respectful site culture is in place. This working atmos­ phere facilitates communication and a genuine safety culture. Regular checks are carried out on site by the BU’s QHSE manager and by management teams. These visits enable us to identify safety shortcomings and correct them as quickly as possible. These visits are always accompanied by a visit report to ensure that every remark has been addressed. Control also involves regular monitoring and communication of safety indicators. A specific monthly dashboard also includes the number of incidents and accidents involving subcontractors. The management team will also ensure that subcontracting teams receive the necessary training. In the event of failure to comply with the established rules, penalties are applied. In the event of serious misconduct, the person responsible will be asked to leave the site with immediate effect and will not be allowed to return. CFE also monitors the company’s track record in terms of safety compliance and safety culture, and takes this into account when selecting subcontractors. CFE is not aware of any serious human rights problems or incidents linked to the upstream or downstream value chain (other than the site accidents listed in the following chapter). Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 116 All these actions do not represent any particular cost. In fact, most of these actions are already taken for own workers and are therefore already accounted for in chapter 3.1.6. ESRS S2-4 3.2.7. S2-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities At this stage, no quantifiable annual target has been set. Nevertheless, the overall objective is the same as for own workforce, i.e. to aim for zero accidents. ESRS S2-5 41 To this end, the number of work-related, lost-time accidents is monitored for all subcontractors working on our projects. This infor­ mation forms part of the safety dashboard presented to the Executive Committee on a monthly basis. Table 29: Subcontractor accident data 2022 2023 2024 Number of work-related fatalities (subcontractor or third party) 1 1 0 Number of accident with incapacity of subcontractors 29 30 35 ESRS S2-5 40 This data should be treated with great caution, as they are supplied by the subcontractors themselves, and their quality or com­ pleteness cannot be guaranteed. It is not possible to measure the frequency or severity rate for subcontractors, as these calcu­ lations would require knowing the number of days of incapacity and the number of hours worked by each subcontractor, but this data is not communicated to the general contractor. Please note that this data is limited to Tier 1 (subcontractors). Given the extent and complexity of the value chain, it is currently not physically possible to extend data collection to the lower levels of the chain (suppliers, manufacturers, etc.). Nevertheless, CFE is continuing to develop more robust processes for collecting value chain infor­ mation. At this stage, subcontractors are not involved in defining the target. This is mainly due to the size and complexity of the value chain involved in CFE projects. The global ambition for continuous improvement in terms of safety is a concern for the entire value chain. CFE and its various BUs actively participate in the ADEB-VBA Safety Board, where examples of best practices are shared and sec­ tor-specific projects initiated. ESRS S2-5 42 4. GOVERNANCE INFORMATION 4.1. ESRS2 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities The double materiality exercise shown in chapter 1.5.1. also shows that the topics of corporate culture, whistleblower protection and corruption and bribery (combined in a “business conduct and compliance with the law” theme) are not material, which might seem surprising at first glance. The same applies to the theme of partnership, which covers such topics as supplier relations and payment practices etc. Nevertheless, CFE is committed to respecting these rules of business conduct as well as all stakeholders. The Group’s SPARC strat­ egy calls on us to “Perform” by aiming for excellence in our processes and risk management (the “P”), and to place people and the community at the heart of all our activities (the “C”). Consequently, compliance with the highest standards of probity and business integrity, as well as respect for human rights, are an integral part of the Group’s strategy. 4.2. Policies on responsible business culture All these rules and measures are set out in the “Code of Conduct” and the “Business Integrity Policies” manual. Both documents are available to all employees on the Group intranet. The code of conduct is also available on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe). CFE also ensures that its entire value chain respects these rules. The rules and measures are set out in the “Business integrity policies for commercial partners” manual. The obligation to comply with these rules and measures is an integral part of the contracts we sign with our various business partners. This obligation applies equally to responsible business culture, social and environmental issues. ESRS G1-2 15a, ESRS G1-2 15b Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 117 Finally, specific policies on human rights and data protection, as well as procedures in the event of personal data breaches and data leaks, are available on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe) and on the intranet. All these documents have been validated by the various administrative, management and supervisory bodies. At Executive Com­ mittee level, responsibility for business culture issues is assumed by the Group’s General Secretary, who is a permanent guest. The expertise of the various members of the administrative and supervisory bodies can be found in the chapter on the “Corporate Gov­ ernance Statement”. The roles and responsibilities of each body are also set out in the Corporate Governance Charter, also availa­ ble on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe). ESRS G1.GOV-1_5a, ESRS G1.GOV-1_5b In particular, the “Business Integrity Policies” manual includes the following policies: • Gifts and entertainment policy • Policy on political involvement • Antitrust policy • International sanctions policy • Conflict of interest policy • Policy against bribery and corruption The Code of Conduct, while not exhaustive, deals with a set of general principles and ethical guidelines that can be applied at dif­ ferent levels of the Group and within the various Business Units. These include (among others): • Protecting teams and partners • diversity, equal opportunity and non-discrimination • health and safety • respect and freedom from harassment • data privacy • Ethical business conduct (this refers to the rules set out in the specific “Business Integrity Policies” manual described above) • Financial integrity • Themes relating to the environment, sustainability and respect for human rights and communities These various policies respect the International Bill of Human Rights (United Nations), the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (International Labour Organization) and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Respect for the human rights of every individual is essential to CFE and lies at the heart of our fundamental values. We respect and protect human rights and take care not to exploit anyone, wherever we work in the world. Everyone we do business with is held to the same standards. We will never tolerate slavery, child labour, forced or compulsory labour, or trafficking in human beings. We respect the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our human rights policy is aligned with our Code and is overseen by CFE’s legal and human resources departments. In particular, as part of its human rights policy (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe), CFE is committed to respecting the eight fundamental ILO conventions. Specific policies on safety and diversity have also been implemented and communicated to all employees. 4.3. Specific objectives and monitoring of these policies The “code of conduct” and the various “business integrity policies” were completely revised in 2024. These documents are available on the intranet. To ensure knowledge and understanding of the rules contained therein, an online training cycle, which is mandatory for all employees, was rolled out during the last quarter of 2024 concerning the “Code of Conduct”, “Business Integrity Policies” and “Human Rights Policy”. ESRS G1-1 9, ESRS G1-1 10g, ESRS G1-3 20, 21a, 21b, 21c Alongside this training cycle, specific training courses and communication campaigns on cybersecurity, safety and diversity are also organised annually. Each entity regularly undergoes an analysis of risks and procedures by the internal audit unit. Internal audit is an independent func­ tion, and its main task is to support management and help it improve the management of risks. Internal audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee of CFE by submitting the annual audit plan and presenting the main findings of the audits carried out and a follow-up of the action plans. If necessary, additional audit assignments may be carried out at the request of the Audit Committee or of the Executive Committee of CFE. Employees are expected to be vigilant about the risks to which our Group could be exposed in the course of its activities. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 118 Any behaviour perceived (or suspected) to be unethical or illegal must be disclosed or reported without delay so that CFE can in­ vestigate promptly and take appropriate action. CFE encourages open dialogue and transparency regarding ethical concerns and potential violations of the “Code of Conduct”. Employees are encouraged to report any suspected violations, starting with the usual reporting channels including, but not limited to, reporting to their team leader, manager, any other responsible person, the HR Department and the Group Compliance Depart­ ment. Reports can be made in any language and are confidential. All reports will be promptly and thoroughly investigated, and appropriate corrective action will be taken as necessary. As an alternative, employees may also report ethical concerns or viola­ tions of this Code of Conduct through CFE’s whistleblowing tool. A simplified procedure (infographic) has been communicated to all employees. Use of the CFE alert tool is also part of the training cycle. ESRS G1-1_10a, ESRS G1-1_10c, ESRS G1-3_18a No violations were recorded at 2024. No fines have been imposed either. Nevertheless, the Belgian judicial authorities are currently conducting an investigation into alleged criminal acts relating to the con­ struction of the Grand Hotel in N’Djamena, Chad. As a reminder, this contract, which dates back to 2011, resulted in a loss of more than EUR 50 million for CFE, due to the non-payment of part of its receivables. The work was carried out by CFE Tchad, a Group sub­ sidiary until its sale in 2021. As part of this investigation, a search was carried out at CFE’s head office on 4 September 2024. In addition, several members of management and the Board of Directors, as well as former employees of the CFE group, were interviewed. However, at the date of this report, CFE has not yet had access to the investigation file and no charges have been brought against CFE or its current man­ agers and/or directors, nor, to its knowledge, against former employees of the CFE group. CFE is cooperating fully with the current investigation. In the current circumstances and in light of the above, CFE is unable to reliably estimate the financial consequences of this ongoing procedure. Consequently, no provision has been recognised as at 31 December 2024, in accordance with the provisions of IAS 37. ESRS G1-4_01, ESRS G1-4_02 5. ANNEXES 5.1. Annex 1: Glossary and abbreviations • ADEB/ VBA (Association des Entrepreneurs Belges de Grands Travaux, Belgian Association of Major Works Contractors): An organisation that represents and defends the interests of the major construction companies in Belgium. • BA4SC: Oragnisation promoting sustainable and innovative practices in the construction sector • BACA (Belgian Alliance for Climate Action): a platform for Belgian organisations that want to reduce their GHG emissions, show climate ambition and use SBTi (Science Based Targets initiative) to define their goals. • BD (Business Division): Intermediate structure grouping together Business Units (BU’s) under the same management within a Business Segment (BS). • BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method): international sustainability benchmark and standard for the optimal realisation (new construction) or renovation (buildings in use) and exploitation of buildings with a minimal environmental impact, based on scientifically substantiated sustainability metrics and indices encompassing a range of environmental issues, such as energy and water use assessment, the impact on health and well-being, pollution, transport, materials, waste, ecology and management processes. • BS (Business segment): Reporting structure grouping together BD’s and BU’s active in the same sector. • BU (Business unit): Any organisation with resources, staff and capital whose activity is concentrated on a single integrated core business in a given territory. • Circularity: This means reusing raw materials, components and products after their useful life in order to preserve their value. • CO2PL (CO2 Prestatie Ladder): The CO2PL (CO2 Performance Ladder) is a sustainability management tool that helps compa­ nies and governments reduce their CO2 emissions and costs. It operates as a certification and management scheme, encour­ aging organisations to adopt more sustainable practices and reduce their carbon footprint across their operations and supply chain. • Corporate governance: Corporate governance refers to the system of rules, practices and processes by which a company is managed and monitored. • CPPT (Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work): It is a consultative body within Belgian companies with at least 50 employees. Its main task is to actively contribute to improving the well-being of employees in the performance of their work. This includes aspects such as health, safety, ergonomics, hygiene at work, psychosocial aspects and making the workplace attractive. • CSRD (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive): EU legislation on ESG disclosure to come into force from 2024. This di­ rective modernises and strengthens the rules governing the environmental and social information on which companies must report. The new rules will provide investors and other stakeholders with the information they need to assess the impact of com­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 119 panies on people and the environment, as well as to evaluate the financial risks and opportunities arising from climate change and other sustainability issues. • DMA (Double Materiality Assessment): assesses both the impact of the company’s activities on the environment and society (from the inside out, impact materiality) and the impact of environmental and social issues on the company’s financial perfor­ mance (from the outside in, financial materiality). • DEI (Diversity, Equity & Inclusion): This concerns the involvement of different points of view and the avoidance of discrimina­ tion, by promoting diversity in various areas, such as gender, religious beliefs and origins, as well as the implementation of a policy of inclusion. • DNSH (Do No Significant Harm): The concept of “Do No Significant Harm” (DNSH) is used in the EU Taxonomy as one of the con­ ditions for classifying an activity as “green”. This means that an economic activity must not only make a substantial contribu­ tion to one or more environmental objectives, but must also not cause significant harm to any of these objectives. • eNPS (employee Net Promoter Score): This is an indicator used to measure the likelihood of your employees recommending your organisation as a place to work. To calculate the eNPS, employees are asked the following question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, how likely are you to recommend our company as a good place to work?” The responses are then classified into three catego­ ries: • Detractors (scores from 0 to 6): employees who are not very satisfied and would not recommend the company. • Passive (scores of 7 to 8): employees who are satisfied but not enthusiastic, and who would not actively recommend the company. • Promoters (scores of 9 to 10): very satisfied employees who would actively recommend the company. The eNPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of detractors from the percentage of promoters, giving a score between -100 and 100. • EPB (Energy Performance of Buildings): This refers to the efficiency with which buildings use energy. • EPD (Environmental Product Declaration): Standardised document providing detailed information on the environmental im­ pact of a product throughout its life cycle. • ESG ( Environment, Social and Governance): This is a set of criteria used to assess a company’s sustainability and ethical impact • ESG (Policy): Statement setting out the company’s approach to environmental, social and governance issues, as well as the plan for achieving this, and the indicators used to measure progress. • ESRS (European Sustainability Reporting Standards): Companies subject to the CSRD will have to report in accordance with the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). Standards are adapted to EU policies, while drawing on and contribut­ ing to international standardisation initiatives. • EU Taxonomy: regulations that determine which investments can be classified as ‘green’ and which contribute to the realisa­ tion of the EU Green Deal. The classification is based on technical screening criteria (TSC) and minimum criteria to avoid signif­ icant harm (DNSH). • Frequency rate: The frequency rate measures the number of accidents at work resulting in at least one day’s absence from work per million hours worked. It is used to assess the degree to which employees are exposed to occupational risks. • GHG - scope 1: all direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company (e.g. fleet, fuel and natural gas combus­ tion). • GHG - scope 2: all indirect emissions from the production of electricity purchased by the company. Scope 2 emissions occur physically at the facility where the electricity is generated. • GHG - scope 2 location based: This method calculates emissions using the average emission factor of the electricity network where the energy is consumed. It reflects the average emissions intensity of local electricity networks • GHG- scope 2 market based: This method calculates emissions based on the electricity that organisations have chosen to purchase, often specified in contracts or instruments such as renewable energy certificates (RECs). It takes into account the company’s specific energy supply choices. • GHG – scope 3: indirect emissions from a company’s activities, such as emissions from the production of sourced products (upstream) or from products, services or projects sold by the company (downstream). • GHG protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol): A standardised global framework for measuring and managing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from private and public sector operations, value chains and mitigation actions. It provides the most widely used standards for GHG emissions accounting, helping companies, countries and cities to track their progress towards climate goals. • Human Rights: Rights as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • ILO (International Labour Organization) : This is a specialised agency of the United Nations. Its mandate is to promote social and economic justice by establishing international labour standards • IRO (Impact, Risks and Opportunities); • Impacts: The effects that the company’s activities have on the environment and society. • Risks: The potential threats facing the company, such as climate or financial risks. • Opportunities: Potential opportunities for development and innovation • JV (Joint Venture): This is a commercial partnership in which two or more companies join forces to carry out a joint project. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Looking beyond our core business, we were very glad to be supporting 62 non-profit organizations through our Heroes for Good Foundation. These associations are active in the domains of education, health and social justice, and have been submitted to our Foun­ dation by our own employees and workers. Isabelle De Bruyne : Moving forward, we believe that the huge potential of ambitious sustainable projects, such as the ones in our project pipeline, can only be realized by a fruitful collaboration within our eco­ system of clients, partners and suppliers. We aim to leverage the combined expertise of our own CFE businesses but also those of our long-time partners to develop smart total solutions for our clients. Our Sustainability Knowledge Center and our new busi­ ness Pulse will remain at the forefront of driving sus­ tainable business. Key in our sustainability approach is the CO2-Prestatieladder which our Belgian businesses are obtaining and have already obtained. We believe this is an important step in the government’s attempt to nudge businesses towards more sustainable solu­ tions. GLP logistics center Warsaw Annual report 2024 23 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
The greatest danger to our planet is the belief that someone else will change it. Robert Swan Annual report 2024 24 Message from the Chairman and CEO Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Our ambitions and achievements
"IT, digital & innovation “We are making selective investments in digitalization and innovation that deliver added value for our teams and our clients.” Hans Van Dromme, Chief Digital Officer Hans Van Dromme : In 2025, we will continue the roll­ out of ERP and prepare ourselves for the onboarding of our larger Construction & Renovation companies starting in 2026. Our transversal Innovation Board will continue the innovation roadmap and process - a series of pro­ jects in the domains of AI, predictive maintenance, and site energy monitoring a Powertrack system. Cyber security focus remains a priority in our Group. We are working on both end-user awareness and training, as well as technical and response capability in our IT Department and business departments. Hans Van Dromme : In 2024, the rollout of our new ERP platform progressed with the onboarding of the first few of our businesses. We launched multiple new transversal applications across the Group. We introduced a global talent management app for the whole Group, as well as the new Hello Heroes app, which connects all CFE employees and workers to keep them connected with each other and up to date with the latest news. For our project and site managers we introduced new applications for BIM viewing, safety management and quality control. We placed more focus on cyber security resilience, and we took further steps in the harmonization of our infrastructure and applications where possible across the Group. Hello Heroes App Annual report 2024 25 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Legal & Compliance We remain committed to further strengthening our Compliance and Ethics processes. While we ini­ tially focused on general policies for all levels of the organization, we plan to extend this in 2025 by imple­ menting function-specific policies and processes to ensure harmonization across the Group. The Legal Board will continue to evolve, with a focus on building greater agility. We aim to make it eas­ ier for legal experts to be deployed where needed, particularly during peak workloads or in high-priority matters. In Risk Management, we will raise the bar on assess­ ments to ensure we continue to enhance our pro­ cesses and adopt a proactive risk management approach, identifying and mitigating potential risks before they materialize. Philippine De Wolf : In 2024, we made significant strides in strengthening the Legal and Compliance function at Group level. One of our key achievements was the relaunch and harmonization of the Group’s Compliance program and procedures, which became a priority follow­ ing the demerger with DEME. This initiative included comprehensive training for the entire organization, designed to mitigate risks and enhance business integrity. We also introduced the transversal Legal Board in 2024, aimed at fostering greater synergy across the Group and providing stronger legal support to the business units. This is especially crucial for larger pro­ jects, where the legal aspect plays an increasingly vital role. Legal is now more integrated into the Risk Manage­ ment process, with representation in engagement committees for projects exceeding certain thresh­ olds. This ensures thorough risk assessments are conducted. “In an increasingly complicated legal environment, it is more important than ever to have an agile legal team that is a real business partner and is able to mitigate potential risks in advance without being a hurdle to business opportunities.” Philippine De Wolf, General Counsel Annual report 2024 26 Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
Annual report 2024 - CFE 27 Management report Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 31 Application of Article 7:96 section 1 of the CSA The provisions of Article 7:96 of the CSA concerning conflicts of interest did not have to be applied during the 2024 financial year. Transactions between CFE and affiliated companies (Article 7:97 section 4/1 to 4 of the CSA) No transactions took place between the Company and its affiliated companies in the 2024 financial year necessitating the applica­ tion of Article 7:97 section 4/1 to 4 of the CSA. Additional compensation for the auditor EY Réviseurs d’Entreprises received € 163,380 in lump-sum fees for the statutory audit. In accordance with article 3:65, section 3 of the CSA, a total of € 152,840 was paid to EY Réviseurs d’Entreprises as fees for exceptional services or special assignments. This amount is broken down as follows: • other certification assignments (including sustainability assignment): € 142,500 • other assignments outside the review: € 10,340. Acquisition or disposal of treasury shares As at 31 December 2024, CFE held 512,557 of its own shares, representing 2% of the capital. The number of treasury shares is identical to that at 31 December 2023 because the Company did not buy back or sell any of its own shares during the 2024 financial year. On 29 November 2024, the Board of Directors decided, however, to relaunch a share buyback programme up to a maximum of 200,000 shares and within the limits of the (renewed) authorisation to buy back own shares, as granted by the Company’s Extraordi­ nary General Meeting on 2 May 2024. However, this new buyback programme was only launched on 14 January 2025 and will end on 19 December 2025 at the latest. Notices pursuant to Article 74, section 7 of the Act of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids According to a joint declaration made on 7 March 2014 pursuant to the Law of 2 May 2007 on the disclosure of major shareholdings in issuers whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market that the concerted action between VINCI S.A., VINCI Con­ struction S.A.S. and Ackermans & van Haaren NV (“AvH”) ended following the closing of AvH’s mandatory takeover bid for CFE, and Stichting Administratiekantoor “Het Torentje” exercises ultimate control over AvH. As at 31 December 2024, the Company had not received any notification within the meaning of article 74 section 7 of the law of 1 April 2007 relating to public takeover bids. Protection schemes in case of a public takeover bid On 29 June 2022, the extraordinary general meeting renewed the authorisation of the Board of Directors to proceed, in the event of a takeover bid for the securities of the Company, with a capital increase of up to € 5 million within the limits of and in accordance with the provisions of Article 7:202 of the CSA. The Board of Directors is authorised to exercise these powers if the takeover bid notice is delivered by the Financial Services and Markets Authority (the ‘FSMA’) to the Company no later than three years after the date of the aforementioned Extraordinary General Meeting. The Board of Directors is also authorised, for a period of three years from the date of this extraordinary general meeting, sell or acquire up to 20% of the treasury shares in the event that such action is necessary to safeguard the Company from serious and imminent harm. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 32 II. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Comments on the consolidated financial statements 1.1. Financial position at 31/12/2024 A. Key figures (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Revenue 1,182.2 1,248.5 ​-5.3% EBITDA % of revenue 49.9 4.2% 49.5 4.0% ​+0.7% Operating income (EBIT) % of revenue 32.0 2.7% 33.0 2.6% ​-3.1% Result for the period - share of the group % of revenue 24.0 2.0% 22.8 1.8% ​+5.2% (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Equity - share of the group 247.8 236.8 +4.6% Net financial debt 41.7 93.3 -55.3% Order book 1,646.3 1,268.6 +29.8% B. General overview Revenue in 2024 amounted to € 1,182.2 million, down by 5.3% compared with the previous year. The residential and office markets remain unsettled. However, the first signs of recovery are noticeable. Operating income (EBIT) was € 32.0 million, down 3.1% compared to 31 December 2023. The significant increase in contributions from the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments were offset by lower results from the Real Estate Development and In­ vestment & Holding segments. Net income came to € 24.0 million, up by 5.2%. Equity was € 247.8 million on 31 December 2024, an increase of 4.6% compared to 31 December 2023. Return on equity (ROE) reached 10.1%, as in 2023. The Group’s net financial debt was significantly reduced in 2024: € 41.7 million compared to € 93.3 million on 31 December 2023. This excellent performance was driven by a historically high operating cash flow: € 85.3 million. CFE SA, the group’s parent company, and its subsidiaries BPI Real Estate Belgium and BPI Real Estate Luxembourg have together € 250 million of confirmed credit facilities which are drawn down by up to € 78 million as at 31 December 2024. All the banking cove­ nants have been complied with. During 2024, new confirmed credit facilities were set up for € 20 million. CFE has also obtained the agreement of its financial partners to extend all maturing credit facilities. The average interest rate on gross debt is at 4.22% in 2024. The order book is up by 29.8% compared with 31 December 2023, boosted by several major commercial successes, including addi­ tional orders for the Oosterweelverbinding project of which the execution will be spread over several years. The order book reached € 1.65 billion. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 33 C. Segment analysis Real Estate Development KEY FIGURES (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Revenue 125.7 157.7 -20.3% Operating income (EBIT) 8.5 17.4 -51.4% Result for the period - share of the group 8.0 11.7 -31.2% Net financial debt 95.4 100.1 -4.7% Changes in capital employed Breakdown by stage of project development (in million €) 2024 2023 Unsold units post completion 11 0 Properties under construction 48 55 Properties in development 197 204 Total capital employed 256 259 Breakdown by country (in million €) 2024 2023 Belgium 82 66 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 112 105 Poland 62 88 Total capital employed 256 259 The capital employed amounted to € 256 million on 31 December 2024, which is down by 1.2% compared to the end of December 2023. The gross development value of the projects under development (BPI Real Estate share) is estimated at € 1.6 billion, i.e. 363,000 m2 of which 58,000 m2 is under construction. Acquisitions In 2024, BPI Real Estate Luxembourg acquired two additional plots of land on the Pourpelt site in Bertange. BPI currently owns around 30% of the surface area of this future new residential district. In Poland, boosted by the commercial success of phase 1 of the Panoramiqa project in Poznan, BPI Real Estate has secured phases 2 and 3 in the fourth quarter of 2024. These two new phases have the potential for more than 600 additional apartments in four sepa­ rate buildings. Construction should start in 2026 once planning permission has been obtained. Projects in the study phase BELGIUM In Brussels, the permits for the Move’Hub project (54,000 m2, including 38,000 m2 of office space) were received at the end of the year. An appeal has been lodged by the Saint-Gilles commune against the planning permission and by IEB (Inter-Environnement Bruxelles) against the environmental permit. Permits for the Key West (63,300 m2) and Uni’Vert (10,000 m2) projects are also being challenged before the Conseil d’Etat. In Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve, the permit for the Samaya project received a negative advice by the local council. A modified, less dense permit will be introduced in March 2025 that takes into take account the remarks made. In Arlon, BPI Real Estate has obtained the combined permit (permis unique) for its Clarisse project, comprising 60 residential units (6,350 m2). Building permits have been obtained. In Liège, on the Bavière site, planning permission has been granted for the new school building of the Haute Ecole Provinciale du Barbou. The deed of sale with the Province should be signed in April 2025. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 34 LUXEMBOURG BPI Real Estate has appointed the team of architects, ASSAR SHL and Moreno-A2M, for its Kronos project on the Kirchberg plateau. Permits applications will be submitted in the first half of 2025, and dismantling works are scheduled to start in the fourth quarter. In Belval, BPI and its partner are actively preparing for the launch of THE ROOTS project. Preparatory earthworks have been complet­ ed and construction is due to start shortly. This is a mixed-use project comprising 6,000 m2 of office space, 102 apartments and a food market. POLAND Permit applications for the next development phases of the Cavallia site in Poznan are currently being prepared. In Gdansk, an initial permit application for 141 housing units is currently being processed. Start of construction and marketing of new projects BELGIUM Construction of the Brouck’R project, located in the centre of Brussels, began at the end of the year, at the same time as the sale to La Loterie Nationale of its future headquarters. This building - exemplary in terms of sustainability - with an above-ground surface area of 6,800 m2, is under construction. The commercialisation of the first phase of housing units is currently being prepared for launch in the spring of this year. Furthermore, BPI and its partner have launched the major renovation of the EQ building in the European district (approx. 19,000 m2). Advanced discussions are ongoing with prospective tenants or buyers. POLAND In Warsaw, BPI has launched construction of its residential project PianoForte (10,000 m2, 101 housing units). Sales are off to a satis­ factory start. Delivery of the building is scheduled for late 2026. Residential projects under construction or delivered in 2024 BELGIUM In the first half of the year, BPI delivered the PURE project (Auderghem) and the first phase of the Bavière project (19,000 m2). The first is fully sold, while the second has a sales rate of over 80%. In the fourth quarter, the Arboreto project in Tervuren (7,000 m2) and the “Parc” building on the Erasmus Gardens site in Anderlecht (9,000 m2) were delivered, while the last apartments in the Tervuren Square project in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre (12,000 m2) were deliv­ ered in January 2025. The sales rate for these three projects is around 65%. This percentage is rising steadily. In Antwerp, construction of the John Martin’s residential project (10,000 m2) is progressing satisfactorily. As a reminder, this building was pre-sold en bloc to ION Residential Platform NV. Delivery is scheduled for summer 2025. LUXEMBOURG In Mertert, BPI Real Estate has delivered the third phase of the Domaine des Vignes project, while construction of the two blocks of the fourth and final phase (7,000 m2) is well underway. 75% of the apartments in this last phase have been sold, including a block sale of 20 apartments to the Luxembourg government which will be completed in 2025. POLAND Three residential projects were delivered during the second half of 2024, namely Bernardovo in Gdynia (13,000m2), the first phase of Panoramiqa in Poznan (20,000 m2) and Czysta in Wroclaw (10,000 m2). These three projects, totalling 567 residential units, have a near 80% sale rate. Four projects are also currently under construction : Chmielna Duo in Warsaw (17,000 m2) and the first three phases of the Cavallia project (25,000 m2) in Poznan. These projects will be delivered in 2025. New partnership in Poland In December 2024, a year after securing a major property in Gdansk, BPI Real Estate sold 50% of this development to a new player on the Polish market, owned and financed by Belgian investors. This transaction not only frees up BPI Real Estate’s financial resources for new projects, but also lays the foundations for a new long-term partnership. This transaction will have a positive impact on earn­ ings in 2025. EQUITY AND NET FINANCIAL DEBT Shareholders’ equity stood at € 160.3 million on 31 December 2024, stable compared with 31 December 2023. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 35 Net financial debt is € 95.4 million on 31 December 2024 (€ 100.1 million on 31 December 2023). This follows changes in the value of real estate projects. NET INCOME The main contributors to the 2024 net income are the margin generated on apartments sold and delivered, and the profit on the sale of the future headquarters of La Loterie Nationale. In addition, write-downs totalling EU 4.8 million were recorded, mainly on the stock of the Schoettermarial project (residential project on the Kirchberg plateau), which was fully impaired. In view of current market conditions in Luxembourg, BPI Real Estate has decided not to pursue its designs for this project on which it had an option to purchase. Multitechnics KEY FIGURES (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Revenue 304.3 338.0 -10.0% Operating income (EBIT) 10.2 -4.3 n.s. Result for the period - share of the group 6.3 -6.3 n.s. Net financial surplus 25.5 -0.5 n.s. Order book 286.9 266.5 7.7% REVENUE (in million €) 2024 2023 Change VMA 213.2 252.8 -15.7% MOBIX 91.3 85.3 +7.0% Eliminations intra segment -0.2 -0.1 n.s. Total Multitechnics 304.3 338.0 -10.0% VMA achieved a revenue of € 213.2 million on 31 December 2024, down by 15.7% compared to 2023. The drop in sales is attributable to Business Units Building Electro and HVAC, largely due to the completion of the ZIN project. Conversely, the Business Units Mainte­ nance and Industrial Automation reported significantly higher revenue. MOBIX’s revenue increased by 7% to € 91.3 million. Track-laying and catenary business increased in 2024. However, machine utilisa­ tion remains relatively low. The efforts made to diversify its activities and client portfolio are starting to bear fruit. OPERATING INCOME Operating income on 31 December 2024 was € 10.2 million, up by € 14.5 million compared to 31 December 2023. Both divisions were profitable in 2024. The ZIN project continues to weigh on VMA’s results, but to a lesser extent than in 2023. The rest of the business reported good profit­ ability, thereby more than offsetting the loss of the ZIN project. MOBIX’s operating margin improved significantly compared with 2023, despite a negative contribution from the LuWa project, for which the Project Availability Certificate was obtained in the fourth quarter of 2024. ORDER BOOK (in million €) 2024 2023 Change VMA 171.2 163.2 4.9% MOBIX 115.7 103.3 12.0% Total Multitechnics 286.9 266.5 7.7% The order book reached € 286.9 million, up by 7.7% compared to 31 December 2023, boosted by several major commercial successes: • a four-year framework agreement with Walloon network operator ORES to install underground cables in several Walloon prov­ inces; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 36 • installation of all the special techniques in a new industrial building intended for the production of medicines in Gembloux; • an ESCO (Energy Service Company) contract for 18 public buildings in the Flemish municipalities of Beerse and Oud-Turnhout. VMA, through its VManager entity, is in charge of the engineering, renovation and maintenance of these buildings aiming to substantially improve their energy performance; • a four-year framework contract for the STIB covering renewal of the primary energy network and technical equipment; • a framework agreement for the renewal of railway tracks in the Brussels Region; • installation of all special techniques for the future headquarters of La Loterie Nationale. NET FINANCIAL SURPLUS Net financial surplus amounted to € 25.5 million on 31 December 2024, up € 26 million compared to 31 December 2023. The operat­ ing cash flow generated in 2024 (€ 23.5 million) explains this positive evolution. Construction & Renovation KEY FIGURES (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Revenue 788.5 872.6 -9.6% Operating income (EBIT) 8.3 -0.2 n.s. Result for the period - share of the group 10.6 -0.1 n.s. Net financial surplus 255.8 208.9 +22.5% Order book 1,343.5 983.2 +36.6% REVENUE (in million €) 2024 2023 Change Belgium 567.7 622.3 -8.8% Luxembourg 60.2 91.2 -34.0% Poland 159.1 139.7 +13.9% Others 2.1 19.7 n.s. Eliminations intra segment -0.6 -0.3 n.s. Total Construction & Renovation 788.5 872.6 -9.6% Revenue amounted to € 788.5 million, down 9.6% compared to that of 31 December 2023. Business was strong in Brussels, where the largest projects were the second phase of the Park Lane project on the Tour & Taxis site (350 apartments for which the first deliveries have begun) and the ZIN project, for which provisional acceptance was obtained in January 2025. In addition, several operationally challenging BPC projects were delivered to the satisfaction of the customer. In Wallonia, business contracted significantly due to the combination of the delivery of several major projects and a drop in order intake. Conversely, in Flanders business remained relatively strong thanks in particular to the construction of the Q building for Ghent Uni­ versity Hospital, the O’ Sea residential tower in Ostend and block 21/24 Nieuw Zuid in Antwerp. MBG (a Construction & Renovation subsidiary operating in Flanders) has also been very active in the port of Antwerp, where its two projects for INEOS are progressing rapidly. In addition, activity on the Oosterweelverbinding site is picking up. Ultimately, this will represent annual sales of around € 40 to 50 million for CFE. In Luxembourg, the drop in sales was expected, given current market conditions. However, business is expected to grow in 2025, thanks to the start-up of several major construction projects, although it will not return to pre-real estate crisis levels by this year. In Poland, sustained activity for BPI Real Estate (seven buildings under construction, three of which will be delivered in 2024) and several major projects in the logistics and retail sectors contributed to the increase in revenue. As most of these major projects were handed over in the first half of 2024, revenue was lower in the second half of the year. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 38 Green Offshore (share CFE : 50%) The Rentel and SeaMade wind farms, in which Green Offshore holds 12.5% and 8.75% respectively, were faced with less favourable weather conditions as in 2023. Furthermore, unlike 2023, the price of electricity remained well below the guaranteed price. Combined green energy production from the two parks reached 2.8 Twh in 2024 (including curtailment). OTARY, of which Green Offshore is one of the eight shareholders, Eneco and Ocean Winds have decided to form a strategic consortium to jointly bid for offshore wind con­ cessions in the Princess Elisabeth area off the Belgian coast. A first tender was launched in October 2024 for the construction and operation of a 700 MW offshore wind farm. Deep C Holding (share CFE : 50%) In Vietnam, sales of industrial land were more modest than in 2023: 80 hectares compared to 127 hectares in 2023. IAI’s share of sales fell from 84 hectares to 54 hectares. This can be explained in part by the enactment of new real estate sales laws, which have led to delays in the sale of industrial land. It is worth noting that service activities performed very well in 2024, posting a significant increase in sales and operating income. Deep C Holding contributed € 6.4 million to the net income of the segment. GreenStor (share CFE : 50%) GreenStor has a 38% stake in BSTOR, a company that co-develops battery farms in Belgium. The first 10 MW farm has been op­ erational since the end of 2021. Construction of a second, with a capacity of 50 MW, has begun. Commissioning is scheduled for summer 2026. This project, located in La Louvière and in which BSTOR holds a 50% stake, represents a total investment of over € 70 million. Construction of a third farm is due to start shortly. This farm will have a capacity of 100 MW. Other projects are being investi­ gated. GreenStor’s net income for 2024 amounted to € 0.8 million (0.4 million for CFE’s share). NET FINANCIAL DEBT Net financial debt amounted to € 227.6 million, an increase compared to 31 December 2023 (€ 201.6 million). 1.2. Main risks 1.2.1. General The Executive Committee is responsible for arranging an internal control and adequate risk management, which is submitted to the Board of Directors for approval. The Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the implementation of this framework, taking the recommendations of the Audit Committee into account. At least once a year, the Audit Committee evaluates the internal control systems that the Executive Committee has set up, in order to ascertain that the main risks have been properly identified, reported and managed. The subsidiaries of CFE are responsible for the management of their own operational and financial risks. These risks, which vary ac­ cording to the sector, are not centrally managed by CFE. The management teams of the subsidiaries in question report to their re­ spective Board of Directors on their risk management. This chapter describes, in general terms, the financial, economic and ESG-related risks facing the Group on the one hand, and the operational risks associated with the various segments in which it operates (either directly or indirectly) on the other. In order to identify and effectively manage sustainable development risks in particular, CFE has carried out a double materiality assessment (DMA) of ESG risks, i.e. environmental, social and governance risks. This assessment and the management of these ESG risks (in particular in relation to the policies, objectives and actions undertaken) are presented in detail and in full transparency, as required by the CSRD, in the Sustainability Statement detailed in section [72 to 126]. To ensure a comprehensive understanding of all the main risks, including ESG risks, these are also briefly described in this chapter. 1.2.2. Financial, economic and ESG-related risks at Group level Interest rate risk CFE is exposed to the effect of interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate financial debt. This risk is partly mitigated by the implementation of ‘Interest Rate Swap’ (IRS) and CAP-type interest rate hedges. However, despite the hedges put in place, the steep rise in interest rates has had an unfavourable impact on the financial statements of CFE. The average interest rate on gross debt amounted to 4.22% at 31 December 2024, remaining relatively stable. Liquidity risk The Group is exposed to liquidity risk in particular: • obligations to repay existing debt; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 39 • the general needs of the Group. To limit the liquidity risk, CFE and some of its subsidiaries increased their sources of financing, of which there are four: • confirmed medium-term bilateral credit lines; • project finance-type loans that certain Business Units set up to finance some of their projects; • leasing agreements for several subsidiary headquarters and for some construction equipment; • treasury notes to cover short and medium-term cash requirements. On 31 December 2024, the Group’s confirmed credit lines were € 250 million, of which € 78 million were drawn. In addition, the Group has € 173.5 million available cash. CFE complied with all of its financial covenants. Exchange rate risks The majority of the Group’s activities are located in the Euro zone, thereby greatly limiting the exchange rate risk. The main exposures are in Poland (fluctuation of the Polish zloty (“PLN”) against the Euro) and at Deep C Holding (foreign exchange risk against to the US dollar (“USD”) and Vietnamese dong (“VND”)). Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to counterparty risk on contracts with private customers. The measures for managing the aforementioned risk are: • financial analysis of customers prior to signing the contracts; • regular monitoring of credit risk trends throughout the life of the project; • where necessary, putting in place start-up advances and/or security or parent company guarantees for customers whose financial strength is deemed insufficient. Risk related to legislative and regulatory changes Legal instability in all its forms represents a significant risk for the Group in terms of legislation, regulations, taxation and case law, not to mention European regulations. The Group responds to this risk by continuously monitoring legislation. Talent management and diversity, equity and inclusion (“DEI”) risk The shortage of skilled talent is a constant challenge, exacerbated by increased competition and labour mobility. The main meas­ ures for managing these risks are: • training: • the attractiveness of the Group, and • putting in place talent retention strategies. Ongoing training is essential to develop employees’ skills and prepare them for future challenges. Group entities must invest on an ongoing basis in training programmes tailored to the specific needs of the construction sector, such as new technologies and sus­ tainable practices. Furthermore, effective retention strategies, such as improved working conditions, performance recognition and career development opportunities, are crucial to retaining talent. Finally, the absence of robust diversity, equity and inclusion (“DEI”) policies can limit the attraction and retention of employees, undermining innovation and productivity. In addition, without a culture of inclusion, the risks of discrimination and harassment in­ crease, which can affect the well-being of employees and expose the Group to litigation. Compliance with non-discrimination regulations is essential to avoid legal penalties. Finally, an inclusive culture strengthens employee commitment and enhances the Group’s reputation, attracting customers and partners who are sensitive to these values. By effectively integrating the DEI principles, Group entities can mitigate these risks and benefit from a more engaged and productive workforce. Environmental risks Generally speaking, companies in the construction sector face a number of major environmental risks. To identify and manage these risks, we need to assess the entire life cycle (“LCA”) of a building or infrastructure project. High CO2 emissions contribute to climate change, requiring measures to reduce the carbon footprint of projects. These emissions come primarily from the manufacture of building materials and developing projects, but we also have to take into account the op­ erational emissions of the buildings and infrastructure we construct, throughout their entire life cycle. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 40 Pollution, particularly from the use of construction materials and site activities, has an impact on air and soil quality. There is a risk of potential contamination of natural environments, as well as a more general risk of impact on biodiversity. The increasing scarcity of materials, aggravated by growing demand and disruptions to supply chains, poses challenges for the sustainability of resources. Waste management is therefore crucial, as construction sites generate large quantities of waste that must be sorted and recycled to minimise their impact on the environment. Finally, water usage is also an important issue, as construction activities consume large quantities of water, and wastewater discharges can pollute water resources. In this regard, the Group is committed to reducing pollution and environmental waste by aiming for “ZERO environmental incidents”. To this end, all Group teams are committed to exemplary behaviour and to rigorously following Quality, Health, Safety and Environ­ ment policies (“QHSE”), which are based on the requirements detailed in ISO 9001, ISO 45001 and ISO 14001 , as well as VCA certifica­ tion. In particular, the Group’s Business Units may be subject to various risks linked to the environmental conditions of the projects in which they are involved. In addition to the economic aspects, environmental risks can also be assessed in terms of image and reputation, as the operation may be affected over the long term by their consequences. From a longer term perspective, changes in regulations related to the ecological transition may also constitute a risk factor. All these risks can therefore generate human, technical, financial and legal issues. The measures for managing the risks are: • analysing these risks as early as the tender phase and developing solutions with the development teams, taking into account these issues as far upstream as possible; • implementing appropriate technical and organisational solutions to reduce risks – bearing in mind that these risks evolve throughout the life of the projects; • restoration costs related to major climatic events may be partially covered by insurance companies. The environmental issues relating to the Group’s activities and their potential impact on the environment are detailed more specifi­ cally in section 2 of the Sustainability Statement. 1.2.3. Operational risks at Group level A distinction should be made between the risks common to the four divisions and those specific to each segment. Risks common to all four segments Risks associated with project execution The main characteristic of the Group’s main activities is the commitment made when submitting a proposal to perform a task that is by its nature unique, for a price with predetermined terms and within an agreed time schedule. The risks are mainly related to: • “upstream phase”, i.e. before the contract is signed: • poor assessment of the project or client; • design and costing errors; • errors in assessing the terms of the contract; • overestimation of available internal resources, and • poor evaluation of subcontracting. • “downstream phase”, i.e. after the contract is signed: • insufficient or inadequate staff and supplies; • difficult customer relations; • encountering the unexpected; • pollution or environmental accidents; • changes imposed by the client during the work; • poor contract management; • changes in the cost of materials and supplies; • supply chain disruption and shortages of raw materials and labour; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 41 • failure of partners (co-contractors, suppliers, subcontractors) or clients; • organisational, technical, contractual, administrative and regulatory difficulties in performing the contractual objective, which may affect the Group’s deadlines, costs, cash flow, quality and reputation, and • dispute of the invoice and the final account by the customer. The measures for managing the aforementioned risks are: • “upstream” : • prior analysis; • negotiation with the client to aim for a balanced sharing of risks; • consideration by the Engagement Committee prior to submitting tenders for projects exceeding a certain threshold; • assessment of the appropriate size of teams involved, and • incorporation of feedback in the design phase. • “downstream” : • organising project site preparation; • setting up specific and appropriate management systems; • applying price revision formulae or upstream consideration of the impact of variations in costs not covered by the formu­ lae; • transferring risk to subcontractors and suppliers; • prior selection of technical solutions and equipment; • dialogue with the customer and project owner; • drafting contractual clauses stipulating reciprocal commitments; • providing payment guarantees, • arranging insurance policies. Risks related to inflation Inflation remains relatively high in both Belgium and Poland, but has largely receded from its peak in 2022-2023. Inflation risk is mitigated by: • inserting a price revision clauses in contracts, and • concluding lump-sum contracts with certain subcontractors and/or suppliers. Economic risks The Group’s four segments are by nature subject to strong cyclical fluctuations. Nevertheless, this observation must be qualified for each segment, since the key factors can vary between them. Thus, the construction and real-estate development activities related to the office property market move in line with the traditional economic cycle, while the residential business depends more directly on general economic conditions, consumer confidence and interest rates. The measures taken by the Group to manage these risks are: • diversification of the Group’s activities; • monitoring of upstream orders through the “selective bidding” procedure, and • monitoring changes in the order book and project performance. Legal risks Segment activities are based on contracts that are subject to a complex regulatory environment as concerns the places where services are performed and the fields of activity involved. Disputes may arise during the performance of contracts, resulting in par­ ticular from assessment differences of new elements during performance, a change in the customer’s governance, new case law, even or a misinterpretation of contractual clauses. Information on the main disputes and arbitrations in which the Group is involved is provided in note 29 (Disputes) of the consoli­ dated financial statements. These disputes are reviewed at the year-end date and, if necessary, provisions are made to cover the estimated risks. Risk management measures mainly involve the inclusion of contractual clauses to : • passing on to the customer any additional costs and/or time resulting from changes made at the customer’s request after the contract has been signed • stopping the work in case of non-payment; • excluding consequential damages; • excluding or limiting liability for existing pollution; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 42 • limiting contractual responsibility for the entire project to a reasonable share of the contract amount; • capping penalties for delay and performance at an acceptable percentage of the contract amount; • providing for an adjustment of the contractual provisions (price, deadline) in the event of legislative, fiscal or regulatory changes; • inserting a force majeure clause (political risk, unilateral decision of the customer or granter, economic disruption, bad weather) or early termination of the project, and • ensuring that insurance cover is activated. Legislative and regulatory compliance Given the diversity of their activities and geographical locations, the Group’s different Business Units are exposed to a specific legis­ lative and regulatory environment which vary depending on the location where the services are provided and the professions con­ cerned. In particular, these must comply with the rules relating to: • the procedures for awarding and performing public or private law contracts; • construction law, particularly the technical rules governing the provision of services, supplies and works, and • environmental law, economic law, labour law, social law and competition law. The Group’s ability to adapt to new regulations and how it monitors standards enables it to significantly control legislative and reg­ ulatory risks. IT security risks In the digital and teleworking era, IT risks increasingly constitute threats that are liable to slow down the activities of the Business Units or compromise the integrity of their most valuable resources and data. The main IT risks are viruses and malware, fraudulent email, cyber-attacks, loss of confidential information, operating errors, risk of physical loss or theft, and misappropriation. CFE’s risk management measures can be summarised as follow: • installation of professional antivirus software on all workstations and servers, with regular updates; • installing additional authentication systems for technical users (administrators); • implementing Privileged Identity Management (“PIM”) controls to grant specific high-privilege actions only to standard IT users for a limited time and after approval by a central high-level expert; • installing security solutions for cloud solutions (SaaS) used by CFE and to secure Internet use : • using secure tunnels (“VPN”) to connect users working remotely ; • removing public access to critical applications via the Internet without a VPN; • delivering regular cyber security training and awareness-building sessions for all staff, sharing how to protect yourself from a cyber security attack (phishing, data theft etc.); • adding a professional service to Outlook for reporting and analysing “phishing” e-mails; • implementing an email protection solution that scans all incoming emails and blocks phishing attempts and known malware before they reach the inboxes of CFE employees; • implementing a well-configured and up-to-date complex password and multi-factor authentication strategy; • using external service providers to analyse systems and alert on anomalies pointing to a potential security incident; • using the Chief Information Security Officers to audit the implementation of our security policies; • commissioning a red teaming exercise carried out by an ethical hacker on some of the Group’s entities to check the effective­ ness of the security protection systems and their effective implementation; • restricting access to confidential and sensitive records according to user profiles: in this regard, records and resources are partitioned by department, with authentication; • setting up an effective backup system; • systematically training employees in the use of applications and software; • systematically checking each request for a new application against a security checklist to ensure that it complies by design with the Group’s security policies, or giving advice on their implementation, and • an annual assessment by the Group’s IT partner of its IT security and business continuity practices, using a maturity question­ naire. The year 2024 was characterised by numerous interventions by dedicated IT teams, with no significant consequences for the Busi­ ness Units concerned. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 43 Operational risks specific to the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments Risks related to customer solvency Both these segments are exposed to the risk of customer insolvency. The measures for managing these risks are: • checking the creditworthiness of customers when submitting tenders; • regularly monitoring the outstanding amounts owed by customers and adapting, if necessary, the position of the Business Unit concerned vis-à-vis the customer, and • for customers showing a material credit risk, requiring down payments and/or first demand bank guarantees before work starts. Risks related to the management and workforce The challenge of attracting and retaining talent is essential in a group where the construction business is evolving very quickly and where specialisation and job-specific expertise gives a competitive advantage in responding to calls for tender. The Construction and Renovation activities and the Multitechnics segment are experiencing a chronic shortage of qualified supervi­ sory staff and workers. The success of projects, in the study, preparation and execution phases, depends both on employees’ qualifi­ cations and skills and on their availability in the labour market. The measures taken by the Group to manage these risks are: • increasing the skills of the Group’s employees through a human capital development cycle; • setting up a training programme for each employee; • developing programmes to promote internal mobility, and • setting up local partnerships with economic, social, institutional and academic stakeholders. Contractual risks related to public-private partnerships The legal and contractual risks are even greater in a public-private partnership contract (in the form of, for example, Design, Build, Finance and Maintain (“DBFM”) contracts, concession contracts, ESCO energy performance contracts etc.), which may vary in du­ ration from a few years to several decades. The risks are assessed before bid submission during the study phase, which is generally much longer than for a conventional construction contract. The main risks connected with the operation of assets given in conces­ sion relate to maintaining the viability of the asset in view of the maintenance, energy and repair objectives defined in the conces­ sion contract. For any building or infrastructure that is operated under a public-private partnership contract, the equipment renewal cost and the works maintenance cost must be provided for on the basis of a forecast major maintenance plan. The measures to manage these risks can be summarised as follows: • discussion by the Engagement Committee prior to tendering; • setting up the operation in a special purpose vehicle with financing that is for the most part provided through debt without recourse or with limited recourse against the shareholders; • involvement of the lenders in the early stages of the projects, and • seeking advice from external consultants. Legal risks related to social and labour law The social risks faced by both the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments are based on the cross-border subcon­ tracting chain mainly in the construction sector. The main risks identified for construction sites in Belgium are the qualification of first-tier subcontracts, occupation and the absence of a checkin@work statement. Failure to comply with social legislation may constitute a legal and reputational risk. The following risk management measures are therefore in place: • putting in place sub-contracting policies; • implementing training applicable to all Business Units; • carrying out social audits of subcontractors on site with particular attention to compliance with social obligations, and • half-yearly analysis of social risks and establishing action plans. The BPC Group Business Unit has been summoned several times in recent years to appear before the Courts and Tribunals for cases in these matters, for alleged breaches of employment law committed by subcontractors. The first three cases brought by the Belgian Labour Inspectorate and involving the BPC Business Unit all resulted in favourable decisions before the Brussels Court of Appeal, which Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 44 are now final. The last case on social criminal matters, brought by the Inspectorate against a temporary company composed of BPC and a partner for the “Jardins de la Chasse” site, resulted in a favourable ruling at first instance on 17 December 2024. However, the Labour Inspectorate appealed against this decision on 16 January 2025. Risks related to personal safety The often complex projects and operations carried out by the Group’s operating Business Units are subject to hazards that can jeopardise the health, safety and quality of life at work of employees and subcontractors. In the event of an accident or near-accident, the activity of the Business Unit concerned may be seriously affected and the resump­ tion of that activity is conditional on the implementation of appropriate corrective measures. To reduce personal safety risks, the Group has strengthened its commitment to safety with the launch in 2023 of a new “GO FOR ZERO” safety policy’. One of the aims of this policy is to ensure that all workers, employees, partners, subcontractors, visitors and cus­ tomers go home injury-free after work, whatever the operational and commercial challenges. CFE is aiming for “ZERO workplace accidents”. To achieve this, each employee applies the values of shared vigilance by ensuring their own safety as well as that of the people working alongside them. Each employee also has the opportunity to say STOP if they feel that the work being carried out could put them at risk. In addition, CFE is implementing the following risk management measures: • the introduction of safety visits to construction sites by Group and Business Unit managers from the Construction & Renovation segment, with the aim of promoting safety and well-being in the workplace and fostering a culture of safety, visible exemplary behaviour, risk identification and improved communication between workers in all departments; • raising awareness of tidiness and cleanliness; • prior analysis of the risks involved as far upstream of the projects as possible and the latest at the start of operations; • providing appropriate personal protective equipment; • putting in place collective protective equipment suited to prevention procedures and operating methods resulting from risk assessments (markings, railings, stairs, etc.) • conducting internal and external audits to assess procedures relating to projects with an impact on well-being at work; • setting up partnerships with external organisations; • organising innovative training and awareness-raising events, such as virtual reality training, to meet the Group’s needs as best as possible; • including clauses in contracts dedicated to the safety of subcontractors, and • complying with health-related and environmental measures put in place by the local authorities. Operational risks specific to the Real Estate Development segment Risks relating to the economic environment Projects are currently situated exclusively in Belgium, Luxembourg and Poland. A change in the principal macroeconomic indicators, the geopolitical environment and the economic cycle more generally may impact the confidence of households, investors and private and public entities, and may bring about (i) a fall in demand for hous­ ing and retail properties, as well as other categories of real estate, (ii) lower sale prices and lower returns on which those sale prices may be calculated, and (iii) a higher risk of default by service providers, building contractors and other stakeholders. Variations in interest rates may affect the ability of households and investors to acquire residential properties and, consequently, diminish the demand for such class of assets. On the office market, variations in long-term interest rates may also affect the return on which the price of office properties is calcu­ lated. Such variations may also have a significant impact on the segment’s ability to sell residential or office properties. However, certain factors can help mitigate these risks: • due to the shortage of well-located land, supply and demand are in principle under increasing pressure; • sectoral diversification of customers; • the value of real estate is primarily determined by the commercial value of the location of the property, and • investments are concentrated in sub-regions with high purchasing power. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 98 To ensure the quality and completeness of the data monitored, this policy is accompanied by a specific manual on data definition and collection methods. Data is collected by the Business Units and consolidated by the central teams in accordance with GHG protocol methods. This policy also addresses the roles and responsibilities of the various Business Units in drawing up local action plans. It is also based on standards and certifications specific to the various businesses (ISO, CO2 performance scale, etc.). CFE revised its decarbonisation objectives in 2024 and now aims to reduce its direct emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 40% by 2030 com­ pared with 2020 emissions. Indirect emissions (scope 3) need to be reduced by 20% by 2030, compared with the values measured in 2024. ESRS E1-2 24 The path to decarbonisation is a complex one, as the construction sector has a long, fragmented and interdependent value chain. Rather than setting bold ambitions without concrete actions, CFE believes in annual progress based on operational excellence, available technologies and innovation efforts. The growth in turnover and CAPEX in line with the EU’s taxonomy is further proof of this commitment. There is clearly still a need to improve data collection, establish comparable baselines for the sector as a whole, and verify the fea­ sibility and availability of technologies that can act as levers for decarbonisation. As a result, the 2050 transition plan is still under development. This takes into account the evolution of current technological limitations, insufficient sector innovation, and the overall lack of visibility on the commitments of the rest of the sector. Furthermore, Scope 3 emissions were only calculated this year, and still have their limitations, as already highlighted above. On the other hand, a GHG reduction plan for 2030 has been put in place, demonstrating our decarbonisation efforts. This plan is based on the SBTi framework. Although not yet formally validated, CFE will adhere to the SBTi framework as soon as possible. ESRS E1-1 16a 2.2.4. E1-1, E1-3 et E1-4: Transition plans, decarbonisation levers, targets and resources in relation to cli­ mate change policies To remain in touch with the field and market while guaranteeing a global and integrated strategic approach despite its decentral­ ised business model, CFE has put in place clear ESG governance. The overall strategy, long-term vision and target setting is the responsibility of CFE’s Executive Committee. In particular, this means that the Group’s overall GHG emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2050 and the related transition plans (in line with the CSRD) are the responsibility of the Executive Committee. On the other hand, each Business Unit develops its own specific reduction action plans, taking into account its own business and oper­ ating model. The relevance of these plans and the possibility of carrying out collective actions are assessed at Sustainability Boards. As climate change and the negative impact of GHG emissions have been identified as material issues at Group level, these aspects are included in the annual ESG review at Board level. Changes in indicators and targets are also presented annually to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. ESRS E1-1, 16 h & i In 2024, 100% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030. For 2050, no commitment has been made for the reasons explained in section 2.2.3. Consequently, no Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are currently covered by a transition plan for this horizon. This plan is currently under development. 100% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030 (short-term). These targets are aligned with SBTi and therefore compatible with the Paris agreements to limit global warming to 1.5°C in terms of reduction ambition, although they have not yet been formally validated by SBTi. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a For Scope 3 GHG emissions, the most significant emission categories were mapped in 2024. Emissions representing less than 1% of the total are considered non-material and will not be reported. A consultant carried out an audit to verify that no material aspect of the scope 3 emissions calculation had been overlooked, and that the calculation methodology was indeed correct. The data collected in 2024 is considered a reference value for setting the basis for reduction efforts in 2030. Scope 3 emissions come mainly from the emissions category purchases of goods and services, and are based on expenditure data for the materials with the high­ est emissions for the business sector (concrete, steel, special techniques, façade elements). This calculation method will be subject to subsequent adjustments to improve accuracy. Where relevant to the company, more granular data will be collected based on activity data, to refine calculations and provide better information on actions to be taken. This will be an ongoing process for years to come. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 99 Scope 3 GHG emissions have reduction targets set for 2030. Although these targets are compatible with the reduction ambitions of the Paris agreements, they are not formally validated by the SBTi. These targets will be determined according to the emission inten­ sity of the various materials. ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a,g Table 18 : Percentage of GHG emissions covered by a reduction target and/or plan Datapoints 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 Percentage of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions supported by a GHG reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 100% ESRS E1-1 16 a GHG emissions for scope 3 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction plan for 2030 100% ESRS E1-1 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a transition plan in line with the ESRS 0% ESRS E1-17 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target for 2030 100% ESRS E1-4 Percentage of scope 3 GHG emissions covered by a reduction target in line with the Paris agreements 0% ESRS E1-1 16 a 2.2.4.1 Transition plan, objectives and progress Direct emissions: Scope 1 and 2 As of 2021, CFE is committed to reducing its GHG emissions intensity by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. In 2024, CFE reviewed its objectives by committing to reduce its absolute GHG emissions by 40% by 2030 compared with 2020’s values. This target is com­ patible with the Paris Agreements and is in line with the SBTi (but has not been officially validated by the SBTi). ESRS E1-4 33 Scope 1 and 2 emissions mainly concern production activities, i.e. Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics. It is therefore in these activities that actions aimed at limiting GHG emissions are mainly deployed. On the other hand, efforts relating to the fleet (company cars) concern all the Group’s activities. ESRS E1-4 34b Lever 1 - Mobility and logistics The first lever activated concerns mobility. As far as company cars are concerned, a mobility plan that benefits workers has been rolled out across the Group to encourage the adoption of alternative modes of transport such as cycling or public transport. Electric cars are widely encouraged. To facilitate adoption, charging stations are installed at most of the Group’s worksites. The fill rate of the vans as well as their routes are being optimised, and tests are being carried out with hybrid and electric vans. Finally, trucks and other heavy construction equipment are gradually being replaced by less polluting vehicles. Mobility-related actions alone repre­ sent a potential 28% reduction in total GHG scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030. Lever 2 - Site energy consumption A second tool for limiting GHG production is to reduce energy consumption for site installations. On site, we monitor energy con­ sumption and can now optimise consumption by tracking down abnormal over-consumption in particular. Understanding of this consumption is supported by improvements in the insulation of the building site containers, as well as various corrective measures. Solar panels are also installed on many construction sites. The positioning of the site installations therefore also takes into account the optimisation of sunlight for the site cabins. In general, the use of green electricity is recommended on construction sites when­ ever possible. The reduction potential of these actions is of the order of 15% by 2030. Particular attention is paid to generators used for site start-up or as occasional back-up for winter heating needs. These generators consume large amounts of energy. Pilot studies are being carried out with batteries or hydrogen generators. The reduction potential has not yet been assessed, as current technologies are not yet efficient. Lever 3 - Office energy consumption For existing head offices where CFE owns the premises, energy audits have been carried out as well as renovations to keep energy consumption to a minimum. Solar panels and energy management systems have also been installed. Finally, BPC, BPI Real Estate, CLE, Van Laere, VMA and CFE’s head office have moved into new buildings designed and built by the group’s entities, all of which are very low-energy buildings. CFE’s new Wood Hub headquarters is particularly exemplary in terms of energy consumption. The building is heated and cooled by geothermal energy and heat pumps, and is equipped with 300 solar panels. This makes Wood Hub almost energy independent, with primary energy consumption of no more than 8.59 kWh per m2. Compared with the current aver­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 100 age of 180 kWh/m2/year for office buildings, Wood Hub stands out as an exceptional NZEB (Nearly Zero Energy Building), designed for the future. The reduction potential of these actions is fairly limited (less than 1%), as total energy consumption in offices is very low compared with construction sites. Nevertheless, these actions are necessary to be consistent with other actions and to establish a real corporate culture around the challenges of climate change. Although we have taken advantage of most of the levers for reducing GHG emissions from scopes 1 and 2, CFE continues to seek further optimisation of its energy consumption. The company regularly tests new pilot projects on its worksites, and closely monitors technological advances and innovations in this field. Particular attention is paid to construction site generators, for which current technology unfortunately does not yet meet market expectations. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j, ESRS E1-4 34f, 16b To ensure that these various measures are followed up, and that worksites choose the solutions best suited to their situation, CFE has compiled all solutions that bring good results in a handbook called the ‘Greenbook’. By 2024, CFE has already achieved an absolute reduction of 25% in total scope 1 and 2 compared with the 2020 reference values. The expected results for 2024 were to achieve a 16% reduction on 2020 values. These excellent results are due in particular to the rapid adoption of on-site energy optimisation methods and an effective fleet greening policy. ESRS E1-3 29 b Table 19 : Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by source Scope 1 and 2 results of actions taken Unit 2020 Reference 2023 N-1 2024 N Improvement on N-1 Improvement on reference year Scope 1 tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,974.47 11,235.58 -20% -29% Fleet tCO2eq 11,713.19 9,821.61 8,329.56 -15% -29% Fuel tCO2eq 3,319.34 3,078.64 1,966.17 -36% -41% Gas tCO2eq 779.64 992.62 899.72 -9% 15% Refrigerants tCO2eq 0.00 81.60 40.13 -51% Scope 2 tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,412.11 1,954.99 38% 4% Electricity tCO2eq 1,872.00 1,342.15 1,742.15 30% -7% Electricity for the fleet tCO2eq 0.00 69,96* 212.84 204% Total scope 1 and 2 tCO2eq 17,684.17 15,386.58 13,190.57 -14% -25% *In the previous year’s report (2023), GHG emissions linked to electric vehicle charging were erroneously calculated in scope 1 instead of scope 2, which explains the minimal deviation in scope 1 and 2 values for 2023 (67.69 tCO2eq). However, total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2023 remain unchanged ESRS E1-3 29 b, ESRS E1-4 34 a,b Indirect emissions: Scope 3 In 2024, CFE carried out a complete analysis of its indirect emissions according to the GHG Protocol. This analysis highlighted the material categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions, which are “purchases of goods and services”, which accounts for 92% of emissions, “use of products sold”, which accounts for 7% of emissions, and to a lesser extent “goods and equipment”, which accounts for 1% of emissions. In the “purchases of goods and services” category, this analysis shows that a small category of materials is responsible for the majority of these emissions. These include concrete, steel, façade elements and, to a lesser extent, technical building instal­ lations such as HVAC, piping, cabling, etc. Taking into account this analysis, as well as current technologies, information and con­ struction methods, CFE has defined its objectives for 2030. CFE has carried out an in-depth study of the stated objectives of its value chain, in particular those of suppliers of materials with a high impact on GHG emissions. Based on this information, CFE has set itself the target of reducing its Scope 3 emissions by 20% by 2030, based on 2024 values. A detailed reduction plan has yet to be drawn up, requiring a more granular analysis of the data. Specific targets for the “use of products sold” category will also be defined from 2025. The 20% reduction target applies to the entire CFE group. ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-4 33, ESRS E1-4 34b As 2024 is the reference year, so far there are no measurable results from the actions undertaken. ESRS E1-3 29 b Lever 1 - Sustainable suppliers and materials The main lever for reducing scope 3 GHGs is therefore the commitment of suppliers who themselves have targets and reduction plans in line with the Paris agreements. Alongside this lever, CFE also wants to take a pro-active approach. As a developer, BPI Real Estate is committed to developing sustainable projects and limiting both the level of embodied carbon and Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 101 the carbon content of its buildings. BPI Real Estate uses Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) in accordance with EN19578 and relies on the taxonomy’s criteria wherever possible. As Multitechnics contractors and companies, CFE actively proposes sustainable and innovative alternatives at the tender stage or even during project execution. These may be reused material alternatives, bio-sourced materials, or others. A centralised centre of expertise supports field teams in developing these sustainable variants and solutions, and also centralises best practices in a database available to all Group employees. CFE is also involved in innovative pilot projects, such as the Buildwise project to optimise site logistics through the use of consolida­ tion centres with Buildwise. Lever 2 - Stimulating change in the sector CFE participates in, and/or chairs, numerous sector-specific working groups aimed at implementing large-scale sustainable and innovative solutions. In particular, this concerns the circular economy, the adoption of the “CO2 performance ladder”, the revision of public specifications, etc. CFE is also particularly active in the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Construction (BA4SC), which brings together representatives of the various professional associations in the construction sector around the themes of sustainability and climate change in particular. Lever 3 - Opportunities in the business model CFE has also launched three new Business Units aimed at bringing a new, more sustainable approach to construction projects. They are Wood shapers, Vmanager and Pulse. Wood Shapers, a subsidiary of the CFE group, specialises in sustainable construction using mainly wood and other bio-sourced materials. With its focus on reducing carbon footprints and using recyclable materials, Wood Shapers contributes to greener con­ struction. Furthermore, the spaces created by the company are designed to enhance the well-being of occupants through healthy materials and safer working environments. VMA offers ESCO services that provide guaranteed energy performance to clients who so desire. In 2020, VMA launched Vmanager, a piece of software and an App targeting energy savings, energy flow management and, in general, construction technology man­ agement. This innovative tool facilitates intelligent and sustainable management of new and renovated buildings by combining VMA’s technical expertise, intensive monitoring and tools to supervise and control their actual energy performance. The develop­ ment of Vmanager combined with the know-how of VMA makes it possible to offer a global solution for energy management. Finally, Pulse specialises in property redevelopment, offering an integrated solution to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and increase occupant comfort. The company offers services ranging from energy and environmental audits to com­ plete building renovation and the installation of innovative technologies. Pulse aims to increase the value of its clients’ real estate assets while meeting environmental requirements and guaranteeing an optimal return on investment. ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j Summary table of GHG reduction targets Table 20: GHG reduction targets Specific CO2 reduction targets Reference year Reference value target year for the objective value 2024 reduction in 2024 compared with the reference year expected reduction in target year since refer­ ence year tCO2eq tCO2eq % tCO2eq % tCO2eq Scope 1-2 market based 2020 17,683.79 2030 13,190.57 -25% -4,493.22 -40% -7,073.52 Scope 3 2024 482,306.42 2030 482,306.42 0% 0.00 -20% -96,461.28 ­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 102 other actions concern raising awareness or switching to alternative means of transport, which are included in the Group’s mobility plan. This plan takes into account all aspects of mobility (TCO, taxes, etc.) and does not involve any particular costs or investments. Levers 2 and 3: Energy consumption on site and in the offices To limit this, on-site consumption is monitored daily to prevent energy wastage, solar panels are being installed on the site barracks and more efficient generators are being used. There are no major costs associated with these actions, as the reduction in con­ sumption generally offsets the investment in equipment. These amounts are marginal. At the same time, a switch to green energy has already been in place since 2020. The relocation of CFE and its subsidiaries BPC, BPI, CLE, VMA and Van Laere to new buildings that consume very little energy (notably Wood Hub), as well as the renovation of other group headquarters, has also significantly reduced the group’s energy consumption. CFE has not identified any assets whose economic lifetime should be reduced. Note on CAPEX aligned with European taxonomy Capex plays an essential role in the development of sustainable activities. These relate to equipment and machinery, CFE’s own fleet and, to a lesser extent, CFE’s offices and production sites. In 2024, a total of EUR 27 million was invested in these categories, 13.97% of which was directly linked to sustainable projects, in accordance with the EU taxonomy. Indirect emissions: Scope 3 At this stage, it is too early to draw conclusions on the resources supporting the transition plan for Scope 3 emissions. It’s a complex subject because it concerns the entire value chain. A more detailed analysis will be carried out in 2025. Nevertheless, the initial trends are as follows: The CFE group’s activities will be developed to reduce costs in terms of CO2 emissions, particularly in terms of the choice of materi­ als and transporting materials and waste in the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments. It is also expected that the proportion of renovation and energy-efficiency renovation work will increase as the regulatory framework evolves. The financial impact of the choice of materials or the development of new approaches to transport is estimated at the project submission stage and then incorporated into the commercial offer submitted to the customer. This study is carried out on a pro­ ject-by-project basis, so margins are re-evaluated at the start of each new order. On the other hand, a residual risk is the cost of the inefficiencies inherent in learning new production techniques or new approaches to logistics. This is because it is not always possi­ ble to anticipate (both at contractual level and when preparing for project implementation) and quantify with sufficient accuracy. The real estate business systematically includes solutions for reducing the energy consumption of buildings during the develop­ ment of new projects. In addition, renovation projects for existing buildings are becoming increasingly common. Once the land has been acquired to develop a project, a feasibility study is carried out. The cost price of the project is estimated and incorporated into the commercial offer made to customers. Specific framework To ensure that these actions are implemented, CFE has strengthened its management team with local Sustainability Officers work­ ing in the various Business Units, as well as a team working at the holding company to consolidate information and support local teams. The cost of this specific framework is included in “operating costs” as presented in the Financial Report on page 128. Further details will be provided from 2025 onwards. ESRS E1-3 29 ci, ESRS E1-1 16c The resources linked to the transition plan will be reassessed in greater detail in 2025 to analyse the costs linked to the scope 3 re­ duction plan, once this has been finalised. Similarly, an analysis will be made to take account of the 2050 targets and the corresponding reduction plan once it has been final­ ised. No significant capital investment is planned for economic activities related to thermal coal, nuclear power or fossil fuel. ESRS E1-1 16 f; ESRS E1-3 29 c ii,16 c & c iii,16 c 2.2.4.3 Risks of blocking GHG emissions Capital expenditure (CAPEX) has been assessed and the blocking risk has not been considered significant. ESRS E1-1 16 d 2.2.4.4 EU benchmarks aligned with Paris agreements Neither CFE nor any of its subsidiaries are excluded from the EU benchmarks aligned with the Paris agreements. ESRS E1-1 16 g Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 103 2.2.5. E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 2.2.5.1 Total GHG footprint Gross greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG protocol. This means that they are not limited to car­ bon dioxide (CO2) alone, but also include other greenhouse gases such as methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). ESRS E1-6 AR 39b For the CFE group, the limits of GHG reporting under financial (accounting) and operational control are the same. This is due to the fact that all Business Units are fully integrated into the consolidated financial statements. Projects under joint control (joint ventures or joint operations) are accounted for according to CFE’s share (pro-rata) in the project. This integrated approach ensures that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting is consistent with financial reporting. ESRS E1-6 50 Table 21 : GHG emissions by scope Datapoints Unit 2020 reference year 2022 2023 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 Total gross Scope 1 GHG emissions tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,914.14 13,974.48 11,235.58 ESRS E1-6 48 a Percentage of scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading schemes % 0% 0% 0% 0% ESRS E1-6 48 b GHG emissions for scope 2 Total gross scope 2 lease-based GHG emissions tCO2eq NC* NC NC 3.520,07 ESRS E1-6 49 a, 52 a Total gross scope 2 market-based GHG emissions tCO2eq 1.872.00 1,394.96 1,412.11 1,954.99 ESRS E1-6 49 b, 52 b Significant GHG emissions for scope 3 Total gross indirect scope 3 GHG emissions tCO2eq NC NC NC 482,306.42 ESRS E1-6 51 Category 1. Purchased goods and services tCO2eq NC NC NC 445,204.25 Category 2. Capital goods tCO2eq NC NC NC 4,968.62 Category 3. Fuel and energy-related activities tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 4. Upstream transportation and distribution tCO2eq NC NC NC Included in Category 1 Category 5. Waste generated in operations tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 6. Business travel tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 7. Employee commuting tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 8. Upstream leased assets tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 9. Downstream transportation and distri­ bution tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 10. Processing of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 11. Use of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC 32,133.75 Category 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC Included in Category 1 Category 13. Downstream leased assets tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 14. Franchises tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 15. Investments tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 location based tCO2eq NC NC NC 497,062.07 ESRS E1-6 44, 52 a Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 market based tCO2eq NC NC NC 495,496.99 ESRS E1-6 44, 52 b Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 104 Datapoints Unit 2020 reference year 2022 2023 2024 Reference GHG emissions outside scope 1-2-3 Direct biogenic carbon emissions (Scope 1-2-3) NC NC NC Not applicable ESRS E1-6 AR 43c, 45e, 46j *NC means not considered ESRS E1-6 44, 46d ; ESRS ­E1-6 48 a,b, 49 a,b, 52 a,b,­ 51, AR43c, AR45e, AR46j Table 22 : Désagrégation des émissions de GES par segment d’activité Disaggregation of 2024 GHG emissions by business segment Unit Construction and Renovation segment Real Estate Develop­ ment segment Multitechnics segment Investment and Holdings segment Total gross GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 market based tCO2eq 6,530.58 53.81 6,518.67 87.51 Total significant gross Scope 3 GHG emissions tCO2eq 337,228.42 36,513.53 108,564.46 Non-material Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 market based tCO2eq 343,759.00 36,567.34 115,083.13 Non-material ESRS E1-6 AR 41 Scope 1 – direct emissions Direct emissions are reported according to the GHG protocol and are calculated for all Group activities. The Holdings and Invest­ ment segment, of which CFE does not exercise exclusive control, only takes into account emissions linked to the head office. Emis­ sions come mainly from the fleet (cars, vans and trucks) and energy (gas and fuel oil) used on construction sites and at the Group’s various headquarters. The fleet alone accounts for 74% of these emissions. The emission factors used to calculate Scope 1 direct emissions are taken from the database www.CO2emissiefactoren.be. This database is regularly updated, and the factors taken into account relate to the year 2024. ESRS E1-6 AR39 b The accuracy level is 100% based on primary data. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c Scope 2 – indirect emissions Scope 2 emissions, as reported according to the GHG protocol, are calculated for all group activities, with the exception of the In­ vestments and Holdings segment, for which CFE does not have operational management. They include indirect GHG emissions mainly arising from the production of electricity purchased and consumed by CFE and its subsidiaries. Scope 2 emissions based on location are calculated by multiplying purchased electricity volumes by the emission factors specific to each country. To calculate Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions using the market-based approach, CFE relies on green electricity contracts as the contractual instruments for the electricity purchased. In total, CFE’s commitment is reflected in the fact that 73% of the kWh purchased and con­ sumed uses green electricity. This percentage of green electricity corresponds fully to combined contractual instruments. Percentage of contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy grouped with attributes concerning energy gener­ ation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions. 73% Percentage of contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy attribute claims not grouped in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions. 0% ESRS E1-6 45d The emission factors used to calculate emissions from electricity used in Belgium come from the www.CO2emissiefactoren.be data­ base and from www.aib-net.org. The emission factors used to calculate emissions from the energy mix in Poland, Luxembourg and Germany come from the www.aib-net.org database. Finally, the emission factors used to calculate emissions from location-based electricity in Poland, Luxembourg and Germany come from the Statista database. These databases are regularly updated, and the factors taken into account relate to the year 2024, or the most recent values if those for 2024 are not available. ESRS E1-6 AR39b The accuracy level is estimated at 100% based on primary data. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 112 Number of employees by type of contract Open-ended contract Fixed-term con­ tract Zero-hours con­ tract Total 2022 2,937 137 0 3,074 2023 2,822 168 0 2,990 2024 2,712 142 0 2,854 Among the 142 workers on fixed-term contracts, 7 are on work-study contracts. Table 27 : Number of employees by type Number of women and men Total #Women %Women #Men %Men 2022 3,074 487 15.8% 2,587 84.2% 2023 2,990 487 16.3% 2,503 83.7% 2024 2,854 476 16.7% 2,378 83.3% ESRS S1-6 50 a,b CFE has a total of 2,854 workers. Of these, 2,282 are based in Belgium, 210 in Luxembourg and 359 in Poland. ESRS S1-6 51 Figures are given by headcount and not by FTE. Information on workers and their contracts comes from the social secretariats. This data is consolidated in a single HR management dashboard. In Belgium, the various Group entities have a single social secretariat for all 2,282 employees, which guarantees the reliability and robustness of the data. In Luxembourg and Poland, there is also a social secretariat for each country. Non-employees, on the other hand, are not taken into account. It’s not material. Nevertheless, reporting systems will be further de­ veloped and enhanced in the future to provide greater granularity. ESRS S1-6 50 di At the end of December 2024, the Group’s staff turnover (by headcount) for the year was 13.10%. This corresponds to 374 leavers. ESRS S1-6 50 c All the above-mentioned HR indicators have remained relatively stable over the past 3 years. ESRS S1-6 50 e 3.1.9. S1-11 Social protection In accordance with current European and local legislation, all CFE group workers benefit from social protection in the event of illness or accident on site or on the way to or from work. ESRS S1-11 3.1.10. S1-13 Training and skills development Training and skills development are offered through training plans, coaching, career plans, and so on. These plans focus on both non-technical and technical skills, to facilitate the maintenance of skilled employment. At the end of 2022, CFE launched its “CFE academy”. It is an online training platform that allows each employee to find customised training courses, both in terms of content and format. The digital approach (while keeping the option of attending face-to-face training) allows for greater flexibility for employees to train when it suits them best. Specific health and safety training sessions are organised, for example, when employees are hired, when they arrive on site, at monthly toolbox meetings and during dedicated “safety days”. The number of training hours within CFE and its BUs is monitored through the CFE Academy program. This data is measured as a total and by gender. However, it is not listed by worker category. This data will not be published until next year, in the 2025 report. Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 b A new programme to digitise the performance appraisal process will make it possible to measure the percentage of workers who have taken part in the appraisal. It will be deployed in 2025. This data will therefore not be published until the next report 2025. Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 a, 84, 85 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 113 3.1.11. S1-14 Health and safety metrics Since safety is a major concern, CFE has developed QHSE dashboards to keep close track of the trend in the figures and to take the necessary remedial action as soon as possible. The severity rate (one of the traditional security indicators) was chosen to be one of the KPI’s governing our sustainability linked loans with the banks. The dashboards, which contain the main information for each subsidiary, are updated at least once a month to keep track of the safety data. They include traditional safety information (frequency and severity rates etc.) but also indicators of proactive safety actions (toolbox meetings, management involvement, taking into account incidents and feedback, etc.). This data covers 100% of the Group’s own workers. This does not include self-employed workers, temporary staff or subcontractors. The monitoring of this data follows the rules prescribed by ISO 9001 and the Belgian legal definitions for safety indicators: • Frequency rate = number of lost-time accidents x 1 million divided by the number of working hours. • Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of working hours. • A lost-time accident is an accident in the workplace resulting in at least one day’s incapacity, not including the day of the acci­ dent. • An accident without incapacity is an accident that does not result in incapacity for work beyond the day of the accident. • A first aid accident is an accident requiring only first aid on the spot. These are not included in this report. • Recordable incidents are the sum of lost-time accidents and accidents without incapacity (excluding first-aid). • The frequency rate is calculated as follows: number of lost-time accidents x 1,000,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The severity rate is calculated as follows: Severity rate = number of calendar days of absence x 1,000 divided by the number of hours worked. • The recordable incident rate is calculated as follows: number of recordable incidents x 1,000,000 divided by number of hours worked. ESRS S1-14 87 Table 28: Data on accidents involving our own workforce 2022 2023 2024 % of workers included in the health and safety risk management 100 100 100 Number of work-related fatalities (own workforce) 0 0 0 Number of work-related fatalities (subcontractor or third party) 1 1 0 Number of recordable accidents (excluding first aid) 145 139 115 Number of lost-time accidents 93 77 64 Frequency rate 21.96 18.47 15.34 Severity rate 0.72 0.68 0.56 Recordable accident rate NC NC 27.55 Number of cases of illness directly linked to work 0 0 0 Number of days lost due to an accident at work 3,050 2,847 2,321 The number of accidents reported and the number of days lost correspond to data recorded and validated by insurers for Belgium and Luxembourg. In Poland, on the other hand, accidents and their consequences are recorded in national records. This information is therefore robust, complete and reliable. ESRS S1-14 88 The safety of subcontractors is also taken into account in a specific dashboard (see chapter 3.2.7). 3.1.11.1 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts No offences or complaints of discrimination or failure to respect human rights were recorded in 2024. No fines have been reapplied either. ESRS S1-17 3.2. ESRS S2: Workers in the value chain This analysis focuses specifically on subcontractors rather than the entire value chain of a construction project. The main reason is that the value chain in this sector is often very long and fragmented, involving many different players with varying roles. Further­ more, there is not always direct contact with the lower links in this chain, which makes it difficult to assess all the potential risks and impacts in a comprehensive and accurate way. By focusing on subcontractors, who are key partners and directly involved in site operations, it is possible to implement more targeted and effective safety measures, ensuring better management of material risks and a significant improvement in working conditions. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 114 3.2.1. SBM2 Interests and views of stakeholders Collaboration and dialogue with subcontractors are essential elements of CFE’s group strategy. We consider them as important as our own workforce. By fostering open, ongoing communication, we ensure that subcontractors are fully integrated into our process­ es and share our safety and quality objectives. This collaborative approach strengthens relationships based on trust, improves co­ ordination on construction sites and ensures that everyone works together harmoniously and efficiently. By valuing the contributions of subcontractors and treating them as key partners, we create a safer, more productive working environment for all. ESRS 2 SBM-2 3.2.2. SBM3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model The DMA exercise (chap 1.5.1) has demonstrated that health and safety are material sub-themes for CFE and its subcontractors. In particular, there is a significant risk of negative impact, as accidents can occur on site, leading to serious incapacity, permanent after-effects and even death. The heart of CFE’s business happens on the construction sites. The work is carried out by CFE’s own workers or by subcontractors. At present, there’s no way of carrying out these projects without manpower. Every effort must therefore be made to limit these risks. CFE considers that it is just as important to fight to limit safety risks on site for its own workforce as for subcontractors, since every human being deserves to be treated equally in the face of danger. The analysis carried out in chapter 3.1.2 therefore also covers the entire value chain. ESRS S2-SBM-3 11 a,c 3.2.3. S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers CFE has adopted a series of policies that apply both to its own workforce and to the various parties involved on site. These include the Human Rights Policy and the QHSE Policy. These documents are described in detail in chapter 3.1.3. A Code of Conduct for commercial partners has also been drawn up. It includes an obligation to comply with the internal Code of Conduct, and in particular to respect the safety rules set out in the QHSE policy. The obligation to comply with local and European laws and regulations, as well as with the aforementioned policies, are an integral part of the contractual clauses for sub-contractors. ESRS S2-16, 17, 18, 19 3.2.4. S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts Ongoing dialogue with the various parties involved on our worksites is a priority, and this primarily concerns safety. The onboarding of all subcontractors is formalised by means of a short training session introducing the site, the contact persons and the specific rules relating to the project. It is vital to ensure that everyone can identify the various stakeholders involved, and knows who to contact in the event of any problems. The site manager will ensure that all this information is understood by providing training in a language that the workers understand. Each team should have a manager who speaks one of the project’s national languages, to ensure that he or she can communicate with the site management teams at all times. Formal meetings are held at least once a week with subcontractors working on the site. To ensure that these meetings run smoothly, team leaders from the various subcontractors represent their companies. These meetings are followed by a clear report setting out the actions to be taken by the various parties involved, an update on the schedule and an overview of the phases to come. A LEAN and collaborative approach is adopted on all projects. Engagement with the value chain on worksites on safety issues, using a LEAN approach, is essential to ensure a safe and efficient working environment. Secondly, value chain mapping enables us to analyse each stage of the construction process, from design to delivery, and detect critical points where safety incidents may occur. A culture of safety must be established, with visible leadership where managers set the example by respecting and valuing safety practices and open communication. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation of safety performance, through key indicators and regular site visits, ensures compliance with standards and identifies areas for improvement. By integrating these LEAN principles into worksite safety management, it is possible to create a safer, more efficient and more col­ laborative working environment. The key lies in the commitment of all players in the value chain and in a culture of continuous im­ provement. Penalties are foreseen and communicated for any worker who does not respect the safety rules in force on projects. ESRS S2-2 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 115 3.2.5. S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns To remedy negative impacts on sites, it is essential to put in place a structured process and effective communication channels. This process begins with the identification and assessment of potential impacts. This includes carrying out risk analyses to identify potential hazards and assess their severity and probability. At the start of site activities, each subcontractor is required to share this specific risk analysis with the site management team, in order to analyse the resources to be implemented and responsibilities to­ gether. Once the impacts have been identified, preventive and/or corrective measures must be implemented. This can include modifying work procedures, improving safety equipment, or training workers to better manage identified risks. It is crucial to document these measures and ensure that they are clearly communicated to all team members. To enable workers in the value chain to voice their concerns, several communication channels need to be established: Onboarding new workers: This onboarding provides information and training for new workers on a project. In particular, the organi­ sational chart of site management and their contact details are provided to facilitate future exchanges. Regular meetings: Weekly safety meetings are organised on projects where workers can discuss safety issues and propose solu­ tions. Direct communication lines: Subcontractors are encouraged to communicate any concerns or comments directly with site teams as a matter of priority. Mobile applications: On most worksites, a mobile app enables workers to report incidents or concerns quickly and easily. Security representatives: The site’s QHSE manager, along with the entire site management team, makes regular visits to the site, enabling direct interaction with all those involved. It’s also important to create a safety culture where workers feel comfortable reporting problems without fear of reprisal. This is en­ couraged by visible, committed leadership that values and respects workers’ contributions to safety. Finally, it is essential to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the measures put in place, by tracking safety indicators. ESRS S2-3 27, 28 3.2.6. S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions Each project is unique and requires a specific risk analysis. This exercise must be carried out both by the project management team and by subcontractors. This analysis must be carried out before work begins, to enable a dialogue with the project’s management teams and to validate the most suitable working methods for limiting risks together. Scheduling will also be defined in such a way as to keep co-activities between workers to a minimum. Weekly site meetings allow us to see whether or not we need to adapt or correct the chosen work methods. Everyone involved in a project is jointly responsible for their own safety and that of others. On the other hand, subcontracting agree­ ments specify in detail the roles and responsibilities of all parties involved. Among other things, it defines who is responsible for the breakdown and maintenance of collective protection equipment. Each subcontractor is responsible for his or her own personal protective equipment. On the other hand, the site management team will ensure that each employee uses the equipment correctly. The site management team will ensure that a responsible, collaborative and respectful site culture is in place. This working atmos­ phere facilitates communication and a genuine safety culture. Regular checks are carried out on site by the BU’s QHSE manager and by management teams. These visits enable us to identify safety shortcomings and correct them as quickly as possible. These visits are always accompanied by a visit report to ensure that every remark has been addressed. Control also involves regular monitoring and communication of safety indicators. A specific monthly dashboard also includes the number of incidents and accidents involving subcontractors. The management team will also ensure that subcontracting teams receive the necessary training. In the event of failure to comply with the established rules, penalties are applied. In the event of serious misconduct, the person responsible will be asked to leave the site with immediate effect and will not be allowed to return. CFE also monitors the company’s track record in terms of safety compliance and safety culture, and takes this into account when selecting subcontractors. CFE is not aware of any serious human rights problems or incidents linked to the upstream or downstream value chain (other than the site accidents listed in the following chapter). Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 116 All these actions do not represent any particular cost. In fact, most of these actions are already taken for own workers and are therefore already accounted for in chapter 3.1.6. ESRS S2-4 3.2.7. S2-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities At this stage, no quantifiable annual target has been set. Nevertheless, the overall objective is the same as for own workforce, i.e. to aim for zero accidents. ESRS S2-5 41 To this end, the number of work-related, lost-time accidents is monitored for all subcontractors working on our projects. This infor­ mation forms part of the safety dashboard presented to the Executive Committee on a monthly basis. Table 29: Subcontractor accident data 2022 2023 2024 Number of work-related fatalities (subcontractor or third party) 1 1 0 Number of accident with incapacity of subcontractors 29 30 35 ESRS S2-5 40 This data should be treated with great caution, as they are supplied by the subcontractors themselves, and their quality or com­ pleteness cannot be guaranteed. It is not possible to measure the frequency or severity rate for subcontractors, as these calcu­ lations would require knowing the number of days of incapacity and the number of hours worked by each subcontractor, but this data is not communicated to the general contractor. Please note that this data is limited to Tier 1 (subcontractors). Given the extent and complexity of the value chain, it is currently not physically possible to extend data collection to the lower levels of the chain (suppliers, manufacturers, etc.). Nevertheless, CFE is continuing to develop more robust processes for collecting value chain infor­ mation. At this stage, subcontractors are not involved in defining the target. This is mainly due to the size and complexity of the value chain involved in CFE projects. The global ambition for continuous improvement in terms of safety is a concern for the entire value chain. CFE and its various BUs actively participate in the ADEB-VBA Safety Board, where examples of best practices are shared and sec­ tor-specific projects initiated. ESRS S2-5 42 4. GOVERNANCE INFORMATION 4.1. ESRS2 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities The double materiality exercise shown in chapter 1.5.1. also shows that the topics of corporate culture, whistleblower protection and corruption and bribery (combined in a “business conduct and compliance with the law” theme) are not material, which might seem surprising at first glance. The same applies to the theme of partnership, which covers such topics as supplier relations and payment practices etc. Nevertheless, CFE is committed to respecting these rules of business conduct as well as all stakeholders. The Group’s SPARC strat­ egy calls on us to “Perform” by aiming for excellence in our processes and risk management (the “P”), and to place people and the community at the heart of all our activities (the “C”). Consequently, compliance with the highest standards of probity and business integrity, as well as respect for human rights, are an integral part of the Group’s strategy. 4.2. Policies on responsible business culture All these rules and measures are set out in the “Code of Conduct” and the “Business Integrity Policies” manual. Both documents are available to all employees on the Group intranet. The code of conduct is also available on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe). CFE also ensures that its entire value chain respects these rules. The rules and measures are set out in the “Business integrity policies for commercial partners” manual. The obligation to comply with these rules and measures is an integral part of the contracts we sign with our various business partners. This obligation applies equally to responsible business culture, social and environmental issues. ESRS G1-2 15a, ESRS G1-2 15b Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 117 Finally, specific policies on human rights and data protection, as well as procedures in the event of personal data breaches and data leaks, are available on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe) and on the intranet. All these documents have been validated by the various administrative, management and supervisory bodies. At Executive Com­ mittee level, responsibility for business culture issues is assumed by the Group’s General Secretary, who is a permanent guest. The expertise of the various members of the administrative and supervisory bodies can be found in the chapter on the “Corporate Gov­ ernance Statement”. The roles and responsibilities of each body are also set out in the Corporate Governance Charter, also availa­ ble on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe). ESRS G1.GOV-1_5a, ESRS G1.GOV-1_5b In particular, the “Business Integrity Policies” manual includes the following policies: • Gifts and entertainment policy • Policy on political involvement • Antitrust policy • International sanctions policy • Conflict of interest policy • Policy against bribery and corruption The Code of Conduct, while not exhaustive, deals with a set of general principles and ethical guidelines that can be applied at dif­ ferent levels of the Group and within the various Business Units. These include (among others): • Protecting teams and partners • diversity, equal opportunity and non-discrimination • health and safety • respect and freedom from harassment • data privacy • Ethical business conduct (this refers to the rules set out in the specific “Business Integrity Policies” manual described above) • Financial integrity • Themes relating to the environment, sustainability and respect for human rights and communities These various policies respect the International Bill of Human Rights (United Nations), the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (International Labour Organization) and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Respect for the human rights of every individual is essential to CFE and lies at the heart of our fundamental values. We respect and protect human rights and take care not to exploit anyone, wherever we work in the world. Everyone we do business with is held to the same standards. We will never tolerate slavery, child labour, forced or compulsory labour, or trafficking in human beings. We respect the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our human rights policy is aligned with our Code and is overseen by CFE’s legal and human resources departments. In particular, as part of its human rights policy (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe), CFE is committed to respecting the eight fundamental ILO conventions. Specific policies on safety and diversity have also been implemented and communicated to all employees. 4.3. Specific objectives and monitoring of these policies The “code of conduct” and the various “business integrity policies” were completely revised in 2024. These documents are available on the intranet. To ensure knowledge and understanding of the rules contained therein, an online training cycle, which is mandatory for all employees, was rolled out during the last quarter of 2024 concerning the “Code of Conduct”, “Business Integrity Policies” and “Human Rights Policy”. ESRS G1-1 9, ESRS G1-1 10g, ESRS G1-3 20, 21a, 21b, 21c Alongside this training cycle, specific training courses and communication campaigns on cybersecurity, safety and diversity are also organised annually. Each entity regularly undergoes an analysis of risks and procedures by the internal audit unit. Internal audit is an independent func­ tion, and its main task is to support management and help it improve the management of risks. Internal audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee of CFE by submitting the annual audit plan and presenting the main findings of the audits carried out and a follow-up of the action plans. If necessary, additional audit assignments may be carried out at the request of the Audit Committee or of the Executive Committee of CFE. Employees are expected to be vigilant about the risks to which our Group could be exposed in the course of its activities. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 118 Any behaviour perceived (or suspected) to be unethical or illegal must be disclosed or reported without delay so that CFE can in­ vestigate promptly and take appropriate action. CFE encourages open dialogue and transparency regarding ethical concerns and potential violations of the “Code of Conduct”. Employees are encouraged to report any suspected violations, starting with the usual reporting channels including, but not limited to, reporting to their team leader, manager, any other responsible person, the HR Department and the Group Compliance Depart­ ment. Reports can be made in any language and are confidential. All reports will be promptly and thoroughly investigated, and appropriate corrective action will be taken as necessary. As an alternative, employees may also report ethical concerns or viola­ tions of this Code of Conduct through CFE’s whistleblowing tool. A simplified procedure (infographic) has been communicated to all employees. Use of the CFE alert tool is also part of the training cycle. ESRS G1-1_10a, ESRS G1-1_10c, ESRS G1-3_18a No violations were recorded at 2024. No fines have been imposed either. Nevertheless, the Belgian judicial authorities are currently conducting an investigation into alleged criminal acts relating to the con­ struction of the Grand Hotel in N’Djamena, Chad. As a reminder, this contract, which dates back to 2011, resulted in a loss of more than EUR 50 million for CFE, due to the non-payment of part of its receivables. The work was carried out by CFE Tchad, a Group sub­ sidiary until its sale in 2021. As part of this investigation, a search was carried out at CFE’s head office on 4 September 2024. In addition, several members of management and the Board of Directors, as well as former employees of the CFE group, were interviewed. However, at the date of this report, CFE has not yet had access to the investigation file and no charges have been brought against CFE or its current man­ agers and/or directors, nor, to its knowledge, against former employees of the CFE group. CFE is cooperating fully with the current investigation. In the current circumstances and in light of the above, CFE is unable to reliably estimate the financial consequences of this ongoing procedure. Consequently, no provision has been recognised as at 31 December 2024, in accordance with the provisions of IAS 37. ESRS G1-4_01, ESRS G1-4_02 5. ANNEXES 5.1. Annex 1: Glossary and abbreviations • ADEB/ VBA (Association des Entrepreneurs Belges de Grands Travaux, Belgian Association of Major Works Contractors): An organisation that represents and defends the interests of the major construction companies in Belgium. • BA4SC: Oragnisation promoting sustainable and innovative practices in the construction sector • BACA (Belgian Alliance for Climate Action): a platform for Belgian organisations that want to reduce their GHG emissions, show climate ambition and use SBTi (Science Based Targets initiative) to define their goals. • BD (Business Division): Intermediate structure grouping together Business Units (BU’s) under the same management within a Business Segment (BS). • BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method): international sustainability benchmark and standard for the optimal realisation (new construction) or renovation (buildings in use) and exploitation of buildings with a minimal environmental impact, based on scientifically substantiated sustainability metrics and indices encompassing a range of environmental issues, such as energy and water use assessment, the impact on health and well-being, pollution, transport, materials, waste, ecology and management processes. • BS (Business segment): Reporting structure grouping together BD’s and BU’s active in the same sector. • BU (Business unit): Any organisation with resources, staff and capital whose activity is concentrated on a single integrated core business in a given territory. • Circularity: This means reusing raw materials, components and products after their useful life in order to preserve their value. • CO2PL (CO2 Prestatie Ladder): The CO2PL (CO2 Performance Ladder) is a sustainability management tool that helps compa­ nies and governments reduce their CO2 emissions and costs. It operates as a certification and management scheme, encour­ aging organisations to adopt more sustainable practices and reduce their carbon footprint across their operations and supply chain. • Corporate governance: Corporate governance refers to the system of rules, practices and processes by which a company is managed and monitored. • CPPT (Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work): It is a consultative body within Belgian companies with at least 50 employees. Its main task is to actively contribute to improving the well-being of employees in the performance of their work. This includes aspects such as health, safety, ergonomics, hygiene at work, psychosocial aspects and making the workplace attractive. • CSRD (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive): EU legislation on ESG disclosure to come into force from 2024. This di­ rective modernises and strengthens the rules governing the environmental and social information on which companies must report. The new rules will provide investors and other stakeholders with the information they need to assess the impact of com­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 119 panies on people and the environment, as well as to evaluate the financial risks and opportunities arising from climate change and other sustainability issues. • DMA (Double Materiality Assessment): assesses both the impact of the company’s activities on the environment and society (from the inside out, impact materiality) and the impact of environmental and social issues on the company’s financial perfor­ mance (from the outside in, financial materiality). • DEI (Diversity, Equity & Inclusion): This concerns the involvement of different points of view and the avoidance of discrimina­ tion, by promoting diversity in various areas, such as gender, religious beliefs and origins, as well as the implementation of a policy of inclusion. • DNSH (Do No Significant Harm): The concept of “Do No Significant Harm” (DNSH) is used in the EU Taxonomy as one of the con­ ditions for classifying an activity as “green”. This means that an economic activity must not only make a substantial contribu­ tion to one or more environmental objectives, but must also not cause significant harm to any of these objectives. • eNPS (employee Net Promoter Score): This is an indicator used to measure the likelihood of your employees recommending your organisation as a place to work. To calculate the eNPS, employees are asked the following question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, how likely are you to recommend our company as a good place to work?” The responses are then classified into three catego­ ries: • Detractors (scores from 0 to 6): employees who are not very satisfied and would not recommend the company. • Passive (scores of 7 to 8): employees who are satisfied but not enthusiastic, and who would not actively recommend the company. • Promoters (scores of 9 to 10): very satisfied employees who would actively recommend the company. The eNPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of detractors from the percentage of promoters, giving a score between -100 and 100. • EPB (Energy Performance of Buildings): This refers to the efficiency with which buildings use energy. • EPD (Environmental Product Declaration): Standardised document providing detailed information on the environmental im­ pact of a product throughout its life cycle. • ESG ( Environment, Social and Governance): This is a set of criteria used to assess a company’s sustainability and ethical impact • ESG (Policy): Statement setting out the company’s approach to environmental, social and governance issues, as well as the plan for achieving this, and the indicators used to measure progress. • ESRS (European Sustainability Reporting Standards): Companies subject to the CSRD will have to report in accordance with the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). Standards are adapted to EU policies, while drawing on and contribut­ ing to international standardisation initiatives. • EU Taxonomy: regulations that determine which investments can be classified as ‘green’ and which contribute to the realisa­ tion of the EU Green Deal. The classification is based on technical screening criteria (TSC) and minimum criteria to avoid signif­ icant harm (DNSH). • Frequency rate: The frequency rate measures the number of accidents at work resulting in at least one day’s absence from work per million hours worked. It is used to assess the degree to which employees are exposed to occupational risks. • GHG - scope 1: all direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company (e.g. fleet, fuel and natural gas combus­ tion). • GHG - scope 2: all indirect emissions from the production of electricity purchased by the company. Scope 2 emissions occur physically at the facility where the electricity is generated. • GHG - scope 2 location based: This method calculates emissions using the average emission factor of the electricity network where the energy is consumed. It reflects the average emissions intensity of local electricity networks • GHG- scope 2 market based: This method calculates emissions based on the electricity that organisations have chosen to purchase, often specified in contracts or instruments such as renewable energy certificates (RECs). It takes into account the company’s specific energy supply choices. • GHG – scope 3: indirect emissions from a company’s activities, such as emissions from the production of sourced products (upstream) or from products, services or projects sold by the company (downstream). • GHG protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol): A standardised global framework for measuring and managing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from private and public sector operations, value chains and mitigation actions. It provides the most widely used standards for GHG emissions accounting, helping companies, countries and cities to track their progress towards climate goals. • Human Rights: Rights as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • ILO (International Labour Organization) : This is a specialised agency of the United Nations. Its mandate is to promote social and economic justice by establishing international labour standards • IRO (Impact, Risks and Opportunities); • Impacts: The effects that the company’s activities have on the environment and society. • Risks: The potential threats facing the company, such as climate or financial risks. • Opportunities: Potential opportunities for development and innovation • JV (Joint Venture): This is a commercial partnership in which two or more companies join forces to carry out a joint project. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 48 The Real Estate market remains disrupted in the short term, both in the residential and office sectors. BPI Real Estate is expected to post a positive net income in 2025, although the extent of this will depend on the strength and speed of the real estate market recovery in Belgium as in Luxembourg. VMA expects a stable activity level for 2025 combined with an improvement in operating margin. At MOBIX, the benefits of the diversification of its operations is set to intensify in 2025. The Construction & Renovation subsidiaries anticipate a decline in sales in 2025, given the persistently unsettled economic environ­ ment. Priority will be given to selectively taking on new orders and improving operating performance. CFE expects a moderate contraction in turnover in 2025 and net income close to that of 2024. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 49 III. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 1. Reference code With regard to corporate governance, this statement contains the information required by the Code of Companies and Associa­ tions (“CSA”), as well as by the Belgian Corporate Governance Code 2020 (“Code 2020”). CFE has adopted the 2020 Code as its code of reference and applies its recommendations in accordance with the “comply or ex­ plain” principle. The Company’s Corporate Governance Charter and Dealing Code can be consulted on the Company’s website www.cfe.be.www. cfe.be. This Corporate Governance Statement describes the composition of the CFE’s Board of Directors and its Committees, and how they operate. It comments on the practical application of CFE’s governance rules during the fiscal year ending 31 December 2024. It also specifies the provisions of the Code 2020 the Company does not comply with and explains these derogations. It also includes the remuneration policy and the remuneration report. Lastly, it reflects the main features of the Company’s internal control and risk management systems. 2. The Board of Directors and its Committees 2.1. Board of Directors The Company has opted for a single-tier structure. Consequently, the Board of Directors is responsible for the general conduct of the Company’s business and is accountable for its management in accordance with articles 7:93 and 7:94 of the CSA. The Board of Directors determines the direction of the Company’s activities, its strategy and key policies. It examines and approves related significant operations, ensures that they are properly executed and defines any measures needed to carry out its policies. It decides on the level of risk the Company is prepared to take. In particular, the Board of Directors: • approves the general internal control and risk management system and checks that this system is correctly implemented; • takes all measures needed to ensure the integrity of the financial statements; • supervises the activities of the auditor; • reviews the performance of the CEO and the Executive Committee, and • ensures that the special committees within the Board of Directors function properly and efficiently. 2.1.1. Members of the Board of Directors as of 31 December 2024 LUC BERTRAND Capacity Non-executive director - Chairman (since February 2016) Committees Chair of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since May 2021 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1951 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Luc Bertrand obtained a commercial engineering degree from KU Leu­ ven in 1971. He started his career at Bankers Trust, where he worked as Vice-President and Regional Sales Manager, Northern Europe. He was appointed director of Ackermans & van Haaren in 1985 and was chair­ man of the Executive Committee until 2016. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ackermans & van Haaren, DEME, SIPEF and JM Finn and a director of Delen Private Bank, Bank Van Breda (until 4 May 2023) and Verdant Bioscience. Luc Bertrand has extensive expertise in corporate governance. Having served on a number of audit and risk committees, he is well versed in risk management and internal control systems. He was also a founding member of Guberna, a Belgian institute that promotes sound governance, and for many years was Chairman of its Board and then Chairman of its Board of Trustees. He is also Chairman of the Institut de Duve and Middelheim Promotors, and a member of sever­ al other boards of non-profit associations and public institutions such as the Mayer van den Bergh Museum and Europalia. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 50 PIET DEJONGHE Capacity Non-executive director Committees Member of the Audit Committee (since June 2022) Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1966 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Piet Dejonghe received, after a degree in law (KU Leuven, 1989), a post­ graduate degree in management (KU Leuven, 1990) and an MBA from INSEAD (1993). He is co-CEO of Ackermans & van Haaren. Before joining them in 1995, he was a lawyer with A§O Shearman and a consultant with BCG. As a member of the investment team of Ackermans & Van Haaren, Piet Dejonghe participates in continuous training to identify ESG risks and opportunities and stays updated on ESG regulations. Piet Dejonghe is also a member of Ackermans & Van Haaren’s ESG steering committee, where he monitors and advises on Ackermans & Van Haaren’s ESG stra­ tegic priorities and progress. KOEN JANSSEN Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1970 First appointment as Director December 2013 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Koen Janssen received, after a degree in civil engineering and elec­ tromechanics (KU Leuven, 1993), an MBA from IEFSI (France, 1994). He worked for Recticel, ING Investment Banking and ING Private Equity before joining Ackermans & van Haaren in 2001. He is a member of the Exec­ utive Committee. Koen Janssen has expertise in, among other things, offshore energy solutions, marine infrastructure, environmental projects, energy storage facilities and biogas installations. As a member of the Ackermans & Van Haaren investment team, Koen Janssen participates in continuous training courses to identify ESG risks and opportunities and stays updated on ESG regulations. AN HERREMANS Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1982 First appointment as Director June 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience An Herremans received a Master’s degree in Business Engineering from the KU Leuven and a Master’s degree in Finance from the Vlerick Business School. She has worked as Strategy Office Manager at Barco and as Senior Consultant at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. She is currently a member of the Executive Committee at Ackermans & van Haaren. As a member of the Ackermans & Van Haaren investment team, An Herre­ mans takes part in continuous training to identify ESG risks and opportu­ nities and stays updated on ESG regulations. WARAKU BV, represented by HELENE BOSTOEN (since 1 January 2024 following co-optation, previously Hélène Bostoen as an individual) Capacity Independent Director Committees Member of the Audit Committee since May 2021 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1977 First appointment as Director May 2021 Current term of office expires 2025 AGM Training and experience Hélène Bostoen is a management engineer (Solvay Business School, ULB, Brussels) and holds an MBA from INSEAD. She began her career at Merrill Lynch in New York. In 2005, she founded Itza Food, now Mexma Food, which produces tortillas. In 2007, she took over the management of a family group, Fenixco, active in residential real estate development in Belgium, Poland and France. She is an independent director of Home Invest Belgium and Abattoir NV and is co-chair of the UPSI-BVS profes­ sional federation’s developers’ commission. Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 51 LIEVE CRETEN BV, represented by LIEVE CRETEN Capacity Independent Director Committees Chair of the Audit Committee since July 2022 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since July 2022 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1965 First appointment as Director May 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience Lieve Creten is a management engineer (KU Leuven, 1989) and also holds a Master’s degree in taxation (1989). She was a partner at Deloitte for over twenty years, where she developed the M&A practice and led the Financial Advisory practice as a Managing Partner from 2008 to 2019. She was a member of the Executive Committee of Deloitte Belgium until 2019. In addition, she was a member of Deloitte Financial Advisory’s glob­ al executive team from 2015 to 2021. Lieve Creten is currently active as an independent director in several companies and also as an independent consultant. B Global Management SRL, represented by STÉPHANE BURTON Capacity Independent Director Committees Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee since June 2022 Nationality and year of birth Belgian, born 1973 First appointment as Director June 2022 Current term of office expires 2026 AGM Training and experience Stéphane Burton received a Master in Law at the Catholic University of Leuven (1996), a Master in Social, Economic & Tax Law at Universiteit Gent (1997) and a Global Executive MBA from INSEAD (2013). He began his career as a corporate lawyer, before joining the TAT/Sabena Technics group in 2007. He held a number of different positions, becoming director of the Belgian subsidiaries in 2008 and a member of the Group Man­ agement Board in 2009. In 2014, he led a management buy-out of the Belgian subsidiaries In 2014, he led a management buy-out of the Belgian subsidiaries of the group and has since continued – as CEO - to develop the ORIZIO group, which was created by the merger of Sabena Aerospace and Sabca, now Orizio Group. He is also Vice-Chairman of Liege Airport and an independent director of SECO, Charleroi Airport and Sopartec/UCLouvain- Technology Transfer Office. Fernando Sistac Management et Conseil SAS, represented by FERNANDO SISTAC (since 26 March 2024 following co-optation, previously Fernando Sistac as an individual) Capacity Non-executive director Committees / Nationality and year of birth French, born 1959 First appointment as Director May 2023 Current term of office expires 2027 AGM Training and experience Fernando Sistac is a civil and geotechnical engineer (Polytech Lille, 1982). Until 2022, he was Managing Director of Vinci Environnement and Chief Operating Officer of Entrepose Group (Vinci). He joined the Vinci group in 2000 as CEO of CBC (Sogea Group). From 2012 to 2016, he was Deputy Managing Director of Vinci Construction France, and from 2016 to 2018, Chief Operating Officer of Vinci Construction France. He was a member of the Comex of Vinci Construction France until 2018. In view of the expiry of several directorships (including one as an independent director), it will be proposed, on the recommenda­ tion of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, at the Ordinary General Meeting of 30 April 2025, to renew for a period of four years the appointment of Luc Bertrand, Piet Dejonghe and Koen Janssen as directors and of Waraku BV, represented by Hélène Bos­ toen as an independent director. 2.1.2. Composition and diversity of the Board of Directors The composition of CFE’s Board of Directors reflects the company’s controlling shareholders. CFE is controlled by Ackermans & van Haaren SA, a Belgian company whose shares are listed on Euronext Brussels, and by VINCI Construction SAS. As at 31 December 2024, CFE’s eight-member Board of Directors includes four representatives put forward by the leading shareholder, Ackermans & van Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 52 Haaren NV, and a representative put forward by VINCI Construction SAS. This situation of control also justifies the presence on 31 December 2024 of representatives put forward by the leading shareholder, Ackermans & van Haaren NV, at the Audit Committee (one member out of three) and on the Nomination and Remuneration Com­ mittee (one member out of three). The composition of the Board of Directors is also based on a balance between experience, competence and independence, with respect for diversity, in particular the equality between men and women. The Board of Directors includes a sufficient number of in­ dependent directors to ensure that the interests of all the Company’s shareholders are respected, and one-third of its members are women, thus meeting the requirements of article 7:86 of the CSA. The balance of attendees is re-evaluated each year by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. 2.2. Role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors The duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors are detailed in the Company’s Corporate Governance Charter. The Chairman maintains close links with the Chairman of the Executive Committee and ensures, in close collaboration with the latter, that the Board of Directors, in its composition, deliberations, decision-making and implementation of decisions, operates in accordance with the provisions of the Charter, and draws up, again in close collaboration with the Chairman of the Executive Com­ mittee, the agenda for Board meetings. Generally speaking, the Chairman of the Board also ensures effective communication with all directors, creating a climate of trust that allows open discussion and constructive criticism, and with the Company’s shareholders and other stakeholders. The Chairman is also in charge of the various evaluation procedures for the Board and its Committees. 2.3. Attendance, functioning and competences of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is organised so as to ensure that decisions are taken collectively in the interests of the Company and in a way that allows work to be carried out efficiently. The Board of Directors meets at least five times a year, at times set at the beginning of the year, and whenever the Company’s in­ terests so require. The Board of Directors met on six occasions in 2024. The attendance rate for Board meetings in 2024 is shown below: Name Capacity Attendance rate Luc Bertrand Non-executive director, Chairman 6/6 Piet Dejonghe Non-executive director 6/6 Koen Janssen Non-executive director 6/6 An Herremans Non-executive director 6/6 Waraku BV, represented by Hélène Bostoen Independent Director 5/6 Lieve Creten BV, represented by Lieve Creten Independent Director 5/6 B Global Management SRL, represented by Stéphane Burton Independent Director 6/6 Fernando Sistac Non-executive director until 26 March 2024 2/2 Fernando Sistac Management& Conseil SAS, represented by Fernando Sistac Non-executive director since 26 March 2024 (following co-optation) 4/4 In addition to defining corporate strategy and culture and supervising the work of the Committees, the Board of Directors approves the statutory and consolidated financial statements and the management report, decides on the appropriation of profits and the publication of financial and non-financial information. Specific decisions taken by the Board of Directors in 2024 mainly concerned: • approval the financial statements for 2023 as well as the financial statements for the first half of 2024; • examination of the 2024 budget updates; • examination of the 2025 budget; Message from the Chairman and CEO Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 102 other actions concern raising awareness or switching to alternative means of transport, which are included in the Group’s mobility plan. This plan takes into account all aspects of mobility (TCO, taxes, etc.) and does not involve any particular costs or investments. Levers 2 and 3: Energy consumption on site and in the offices To limit this, on-site consumption is monitored daily to prevent energy wastage, solar panels are being installed on the site barracks and more efficient generators are being used. There are no major costs associated with these actions, as the reduction in con­ sumption generally offsets the investment in equipment. These amounts are marginal. At the same time, a switch to green energy has already been in place since 2020. The relocation of CFE and its subsidiaries BPC, BPI, CLE, VMA and Van Laere to new buildings that consume very little energy (notably Wood Hub), as well as the renovation of other group headquarters, has also significantly reduced the group’s energy consumption. CFE has not identified any assets whose economic lifetime should be reduced. Note on CAPEX aligned with European taxonomy Capex plays an essential role in the development of sustainable activities. These relate to equipment and machinery, CFE’s own fleet and, to a lesser extent, CFE’s offices and production sites. In 2024, a total of EUR 27 million was invested in these categories, 13.97% of which was directly linked to sustainable projects, in accordance with the EU taxonomy. Indirect emissions: Scope 3 At this stage, it is too early to draw conclusions on the resources supporting the transition plan for Scope 3 emissions. It’s a complex subject because it concerns the entire value chain. A more detailed analysis will be carried out in 2025. Nevertheless, the initial trends are as follows: The CFE group’s activities will be developed to reduce costs in terms of CO2 emissions, particularly in terms of the choice of materi­ als and transporting materials and waste in the Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments. It is also expected that the proportion of renovation and energy-efficiency renovation work will increase as the regulatory framework evolves. The financial impact of the choice of materials or the development of new approaches to transport is estimated at the project submission stage and then incorporated into the commercial offer submitted to the customer. This study is carried out on a pro­ ject-by-project basis, so margins are re-evaluated at the start of each new order. On the other hand, a residual risk is the cost of the inefficiencies inherent in learning new production techniques or new approaches to logistics. This is because it is not always possi­ ble to anticipate (both at contractual level and when preparing for project implementation) and quantify with sufficient accuracy. The real estate business systematically includes solutions for reducing the energy consumption of buildings during the develop­ ment of new projects. In addition, renovation projects for existing buildings are becoming increasingly common. Once the land has been acquired to develop a project, a feasibility study is carried out. The cost price of the project is estimated and incorporated into the commercial offer made to customers. Specific framework To ensure that these actions are implemented, CFE has strengthened its management team with local Sustainability Officers work­ ing in the various Business Units, as well as a team working at the holding company to consolidate information and support local teams. The cost of this specific framework is included in “operating costs” as presented in the Financial Report on page 128. Further details will be provided from 2025 onwards. ESRS E1-3 29 ci, ESRS E1-1 16c The resources linked to the transition plan will be reassessed in greater detail in 2025 to analyse the costs linked to the scope 3 re­ duction plan, once this has been finalised. Similarly, an analysis will be made to take account of the 2050 targets and the corresponding reduction plan once it has been final­ ised. No significant capital investment is planned for economic activities related to thermal coal, nuclear power or fossil fuel. ESRS E1-1 16 f; ESRS E1-3 29 c ii,16 c & c iii,16 c 2.2.4.3 Risks of blocking GHG emissions Capital expenditure (CAPEX) has been assessed and the blocking risk has not been considered significant. ESRS E1-1 16 d 2.2.4.4 EU benchmarks aligned with Paris agreements Neither CFE nor any of its subsidiaries are excluded from the EU benchmarks aligned with the Paris agreements. ESRS E1-1 16 g Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 103 2.2.5. E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 2.2.5.1 Total GHG footprint Gross greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG protocol. This means that they are not limited to car­ bon dioxide (CO2) alone, but also include other greenhouse gases such as methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). ESRS E1-6 AR 39b For the CFE group, the limits of GHG reporting under financial (accounting) and operational control are the same. This is due to the fact that all Business Units are fully integrated into the consolidated financial statements. Projects under joint control (joint ventures or joint operations) are accounted for according to CFE’s share (pro-rata) in the project. This integrated approach ensures that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting is consistent with financial reporting. ESRS E1-6 50 Table 21 : GHG emissions by scope Datapoints Unit 2020 reference year 2022 2023 2024 Reference GHG emissions for scope 1 Total gross Scope 1 GHG emissions tCO2eq 15,812.17 13,914.14 13,974.48 11,235.58 ESRS E1-6 48 a Percentage of scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading schemes % 0% 0% 0% 0% ESRS E1-6 48 b GHG emissions for scope 2 Total gross scope 2 lease-based GHG emissions tCO2eq NC* NC NC 3.520,07 ESRS E1-6 49 a, 52 a Total gross scope 2 market-based GHG emissions tCO2eq 1.872.00 1,394.96 1,412.11 1,954.99 ESRS E1-6 49 b, 52 b Significant GHG emissions for scope 3 Total gross indirect scope 3 GHG emissions tCO2eq NC NC NC 482,306.42 ESRS E1-6 51 Category 1. Purchased goods and services tCO2eq NC NC NC 445,204.25 Category 2. Capital goods tCO2eq NC NC NC 4,968.62 Category 3. Fuel and energy-related activities tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 4. Upstream transportation and distribution tCO2eq NC NC NC Included in Category 1 Category 5. Waste generated in operations tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 6. Business travel tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 7. Employee commuting tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Category 8. Upstream leased assets tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 9. Downstream transportation and distri­ bution tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 10. Processing of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 11. Use of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC 32,133.75 Category 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products tCO2eq NC NC NC Included in Category 1 Category 13. Downstream leased assets tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 14. Franchises tCO2eq NC NC NC Not applicable Category 15. Investments tCO2eq NC NC NC Non material Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 location based tCO2eq NC NC NC 497,062.07 ESRS E1-6 44, 52 a Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 market based tCO2eq NC NC NC 495,496.99 ESRS E1-6 44, 52 b Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 104 Datapoints Unit 2020 reference year 2022 2023 2024 Reference GHG emissions outside scope 1-2-3 Direct biogenic carbon emissions (Scope 1-2-3) NC NC NC Not applicable ESRS E1-6 AR 43c, 45e, 46j *NC means not considered ESRS E1-6 44, 46d ; ESRS ­E1-6 48 a,b, 49 a,b, 52 a,b,­ 51, AR43c, AR45e, AR46j Table 22 : Désagrégation des émissions de GES par segment d’activité Disaggregation of 2024 GHG emissions by business segment Unit Construction and Renovation segment Real Estate Develop­ ment segment Multitechnics segment Investment and Holdings segment Total gross GHG emissions for scope 1 and 2 market based tCO2eq 6,530.58 53.81 6,518.67 87.51 Total significant gross Scope 3 GHG emissions tCO2eq 337,228.42 36,513.53 108,564.46 Non-material Total GHG emissions for scope 1-2-3 market based tCO2eq 343,759.00 36,567.34 115,083.13 Non-material ESRS E1-6 AR 41 Scope 1 – direct emissions Direct emissions are reported according to the GHG protocol and are calculated for all Group activities. The Holdings and Invest­ ment segment, of which CFE does not exercise exclusive control, only takes into account emissions linked to the head office. Emis­ sions come mainly from the fleet (cars, vans and trucks) and energy (gas and fuel oil) used on construction sites and at the Group’s various headquarters. The fleet alone accounts for 74% of these emissions. The emission factors used to calculate Scope 1 direct emissions are taken from the database www.CO2emissiefactoren.be. This database is regularly updated, and the factors taken into account relate to the year 2024. ESRS E1-6 AR39 b The accuracy level is 100% based on primary data. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c Scope 2 – indirect emissions Scope 2 emissions, as reported according to the GHG protocol, are calculated for all group activities, with the exception of the In­ vestments and Holdings segment, for which CFE does not have operational management. They include indirect GHG emissions mainly arising from the production of electricity purchased and consumed by CFE and its subsidiaries. Scope 2 emissions based on location are calculated by multiplying purchased electricity volumes by the emission factors specific to each country. To calculate Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions using the market-based approach, CFE relies on green electricity contracts as the contractual instruments for the electricity purchased. In total, CFE’s commitment is reflected in the fact that 73% of the kWh purchased and con­ sumed uses green electricity. This percentage of green electricity corresponds fully to combined contractual instruments. Percentage of contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy grouped with attributes concerning energy gener­ ation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions. 73% Percentage of contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy attribute claims not grouped in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions. 0% ESRS E1-6 45d The emission factors used to calculate emissions from electricity used in Belgium come from the www.CO2emissiefactoren.be data­ base and from www.aib-net.org. The emission factors used to calculate emissions from the energy mix in Poland, Luxembourg and Germany come from the www.aib-net.org database. Finally, the emission factors used to calculate emissions from location-based electricity in Poland, Luxembourg and Germany come from the Statista database. These databases are regularly updated, and the factors taken into account relate to the year 2024, or the most recent values if those for 2024 are not available. ESRS E1-6 AR39b The accuracy level is estimated at 100% based on primary data. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 105 Scope 3 – indirect emissions Scope 3 emissions are reported according to the GHG protocol, with the Scope 3 inventory divided into 15 categories. CFE plans to gradually improve the accuracy of the values reported for Scope 3. 2024 is considered a reference year for determin­ ing a base value on which CFE can set its decarbonisation targets. In 2024, CFE will only report on those categories of scope 3 that are material, i.e. whose value is greater than 1% of the total value of scope 3. The calculation method used in 2024 means that the categories ‘Upstream transportation and distribution’ and ‘end-of-life treat­ ment of sold products’ are already included in the ‘Purchased goods and services’ category. This is due to the fact that almost all the emission factors used in category 1 concern full EPDs integrating the end of the production cycle and transportation of products. This methodology is applied to avoid double counting. Next year this figure will be disaggregated as far as possible to reflect a cor­ rect allocation, in order to be fully aligned with the GHG Protocol. ESRS E1-6 AR 46 i, 46 h The following relevant categories have been identified at this stage as material in line with the methods used to estimate emissions: • Category 1: Purchased goods and services: This category mainly concerns emissions linked to the manufacture and use of materials in projects carried out by the Group. In 2024, the calculation method used is as follows. CFE has listed the types of materials which, according to recent studies in the sector, account for the largest share of emissions linked to their production (around 80%). CFE then inventoried all the expenses linked to these materials and services. Finally, the selected expenditure is multiplied by the corresponding generic emission factors. These emission factors are taken from generic EPDs. • Category 2: Capital goods: The starting point for this category is the CFE balance sheet. Capital goods are classified under ‘property, plant and equipment’. This section can be divided into the following categories: • Land - Buildings - Equipment - Vehi­ cles. Each of these categories is associated with a CAPEX value, which is multiplied by a corresponding generic emission factor. These emission factors are taken from generic EPDs. • Category 11: Use of sold products: This concerns energy consumption for the next 50 years in buildings developed by BPI Real Estate, and in buildings for which an ESCO-type contract has been signed with Vmanager. The basis for calculating scope 3 is directly linked to the provisional EPB of the buildings under construction. Non-material categories: 3. Fuel and energy-related activities, 5. Waste generated in operations, 6. Business travel, 7. Employee commuting, 15. Investments. Categories accounted for elsewhere: 4. Upstream transportation and distribution is included in category 1. Purchased goods and services, 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products is recorded in category 1. Purshased goods and services Categories that do not apply to CFE activities: 8. Upstream leased assets, 9. Downstream transportation and distribution, 10. Process­ ing of sold products, 13. Downstream leased assets and 14. Franchises. ESRS E1-6, AR 46 i The Scope 3 figures disclosed should be considered as initial estimates, mainly based on expenditure data or provisional EPB. This results in 0% primary data. These estimates are subject to subsequent adjustments. More granular activity data will be implemented over the coming years. ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c, E1-6, AR 46 g The conversion factors used for categories 1 and 2 come either from generic EPDs, or from material-specific databases. These are ADEME, INIES and Climatiq. For concrete materials, the EPDs used come from Fedbeton. For category 11, the conversion factors used are the same as those used to calculate location based on scopes 1 and 2. ESRS E1-6 AR39 b Scope 3 emissions are calculated and reported for the first time in 2024. There are no changes in scope or method to report for Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are presented for the first time in 2024, distinguishing between “market-based” and “location-based” values. In the past, only market-based values were reported. There are no events to report that could have had a significant impact on the values reported. ESRS E1-6 47, 42c 2.2.5.2 GHG intensity based on net revenues Carbon intensity is calculated by dividing the quantity of CO2 produced by the consolidated turnover of the past year for all CFE and subsidiary activities. ESRS E1-6 53, 55 & AR55 This calculation method differs from that used in previous years. The relative emissions previously reported were calculated by Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 106 taking into account only direct emissions from Scope 1 and indirect emissions from Scope 2, as well as turnover from “productive” activities, i.e. those responsible for these emissions (Construction & Renovation and Multitechnics segments only). From this year onwards, indirect scope 3 emissions are also taken into account. It is therefore more consistent to use consolidated turnover as the divisor. This value is identical to the turnover figure in the financial statement. Table 23 : GHG emissions intensity Datapoints 2024 Reference Intensity of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by net income Location-based (tCO2eq/M€) 12.48 Market based (tCO2eq/M€) 11.16 Intensity of Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by net income Location-based (tCO2eq/€M) 420.47 ESRS E1-6 53 Market based (tCO2eq/€M) 419.14 ESRS E1-6 53 The table below shows a reconciliation with net income on the income statement. ESRS E1-6 AR 55 Table 24: Net income used for intensity calculations Revenue reconciliation 2024 Reference Net income used to calculate GHG intensity (€) 1,182,169,203.98 Other revenue (€) - Total net income (as stated in the financial declaration)(€) 1,182,169,203.98 ESRS E1-6 AR55 2.2.6. E1-7: GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits CFE has no disposal or storage of GHGs resulting from projects developed as part of its own activities or to which it has contributed in their upstream and downstream value chain. In addition, there are no GHG emission reductions or removals taken into account in the GHG emissions disclosed from climate change mitigation projects outside their value chain, which they have financed or intend to finance through the purchase of carbon credits. ESRS E1-7 2.2.7. E1-8: Internal carbon pricing CFE does not have internal, structured carbon pricing systems to support decision-making or incentivise the implementation of climate-related policies and objectives. ESRS E1-8 2.2.8. E1-9: Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities In 2024, guidelines for Group companies were drawn up in collaboration with other AvH Group companies to define climate risks (both physical and transitional) and identify opportunities. Pilot projects were carried out with an external consultant to gain a better understanding of the data requirements needed to translate climate risks into monetary value. An initial analysis of CFE’s activities has shown that, generally speaking, they do not present any physical climatic risks. Indeed, CFE is a company with a limited number of physical assets (such as buildings, machinery or land). The risk of these assets be­ ing exposed to the physical risks associated with natural disasters (floods, storms, etc.) which could damage them is not very material. Our business model is based on carrying out and selling projects rather than owning and operating physical assets, so physical risks are considerably reduced. ESRS E1-9 66a,b,c,d, ESRS E1-9 AR70ci, ESRS E1-9 AR69a,b With regard to transition risks, the complementary analysis exercise is still ongoing. CFE will therefore be gradually introducing infor­ mation on this subject. From the next reporting year onwards, qualitative information will be provided, and by the year ending 31 December 2027, a mone­ tary impact should be reported. Phase in requirements for ESRS E1-9 67, 68,69 & AR 72,73 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 117 Finally, specific policies on human rights and data protection, as well as procedures in the event of personal data breaches and data leaks, are available on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe) and on the intranet. All these documents have been validated by the various administrative, management and supervisory bodies. At Executive Com­ mittee level, responsibility for business culture issues is assumed by the Group’s General Secretary, who is a permanent guest. The expertise of the various members of the administrative and supervisory bodies can be found in the chapter on the “Corporate Gov­ ernance Statement”. The roles and responsibilities of each body are also set out in the Corporate Governance Charter, also availa­ ble on the CFE group website (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe). ESRS G1.GOV-1_5a, ESRS G1.GOV-1_5b In particular, the “Business Integrity Policies” manual includes the following policies: • Gifts and entertainment policy • Policy on political involvement • Antitrust policy • International sanctions policy • Conflict of interest policy • Policy against bribery and corruption The Code of Conduct, while not exhaustive, deals with a set of general principles and ethical guidelines that can be applied at dif­ ferent levels of the Group and within the various Business Units. These include (among others): • Protecting teams and partners • diversity, equal opportunity and non-discrimination • health and safety • respect and freedom from harassment • data privacy • Ethical business conduct (this refers to the rules set out in the specific “Business Integrity Policies” manual described above) • Financial integrity • Themes relating to the environment, sustainability and respect for human rights and communities These various policies respect the International Bill of Human Rights (United Nations), the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (International Labour Organization) and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Respect for the human rights of every individual is essential to CFE and lies at the heart of our fundamental values. We respect and protect human rights and take care not to exploit anyone, wherever we work in the world. Everyone we do business with is held to the same standards. We will never tolerate slavery, child labour, forced or compulsory labour, or trafficking in human beings. We respect the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our human rights policy is aligned with our Code and is overseen by CFE’s legal and human resources departments. In particular, as part of its human rights policy (https://www.cfe.be/fr/documents-de-la-societe), CFE is committed to respecting the eight fundamental ILO conventions. Specific policies on safety and diversity have also been implemented and communicated to all employees. 4.3. Specific objectives and monitoring of these policies The “code of conduct” and the various “business integrity policies” were completely revised in 2024. These documents are available on the intranet. To ensure knowledge and understanding of the rules contained therein, an online training cycle, which is mandatory for all employees, was rolled out during the last quarter of 2024 concerning the “Code of Conduct”, “Business Integrity Policies” and “Human Rights Policy”. ESRS G1-1 9, ESRS G1-1 10g, ESRS G1-3 20, 21a, 21b, 21c Alongside this training cycle, specific training courses and communication campaigns on cybersecurity, safety and diversity are also organised annually. Each entity regularly undergoes an analysis of risks and procedures by the internal audit unit. Internal audit is an independent func­ tion, and its main task is to support management and help it improve the management of risks. Internal audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee of CFE by submitting the annual audit plan and presenting the main findings of the audits carried out and a follow-up of the action plans. If necessary, additional audit assignments may be carried out at the request of the Audit Committee or of the Executive Committee of CFE. Employees are expected to be vigilant about the risks to which our Group could be exposed in the course of its activities. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 118 Any behaviour perceived (or suspected) to be unethical or illegal must be disclosed or reported without delay so that CFE can in­ vestigate promptly and take appropriate action. CFE encourages open dialogue and transparency regarding ethical concerns and potential violations of the “Code of Conduct”. Employees are encouraged to report any suspected violations, starting with the usual reporting channels including, but not limited to, reporting to their team leader, manager, any other responsible person, the HR Department and the Group Compliance Depart­ ment. Reports can be made in any language and are confidential. All reports will be promptly and thoroughly investigated, and appropriate corrective action will be taken as necessary. As an alternative, employees may also report ethical concerns or viola­ tions of this Code of Conduct through CFE’s whistleblowing tool. A simplified procedure (infographic) has been communicated to all employees. Use of the CFE alert tool is also part of the training cycle. ESRS G1-1_10a, ESRS G1-1_10c, ESRS G1-3_18a No violations were recorded at 2024. No fines have been imposed either. Nevertheless, the Belgian judicial authorities are currently conducting an investigation into alleged criminal acts relating to the con­ struction of the Grand Hotel in N’Djamena, Chad. As a reminder, this contract, which dates back to 2011, resulted in a loss of more than EUR 50 million for CFE, due to the non-payment of part of its receivables. The work was carried out by CFE Tchad, a Group sub­ sidiary until its sale in 2021. As part of this investigation, a search was carried out at CFE’s head office on 4 September 2024. In addition, several members of management and the Board of Directors, as well as former employees of the CFE group, were interviewed. However, at the date of this report, CFE has not yet had access to the investigation file and no charges have been brought against CFE or its current man­ agers and/or directors, nor, to its knowledge, against former employees of the CFE group. CFE is cooperating fully with the current investigation. In the current circumstances and in light of the above, CFE is unable to reliably estimate the financial consequences of this ongoing procedure. Consequently, no provision has been recognised as at 31 December 2024, in accordance with the provisions of IAS 37. ESRS G1-4_01, ESRS G1-4_02 5. ANNEXES 5.1. Annex 1: Glossary and abbreviations • ADEB/ VBA (Association des Entrepreneurs Belges de Grands Travaux, Belgian Association of Major Works Contractors): An organisation that represents and defends the interests of the major construction companies in Belgium. • BA4SC: Oragnisation promoting sustainable and innovative practices in the construction sector • BACA (Belgian Alliance for Climate Action): a platform for Belgian organisations that want to reduce their GHG emissions, show climate ambition and use SBTi (Science Based Targets initiative) to define their goals. • BD (Business Division): Intermediate structure grouping together Business Units (BU’s) under the same management within a Business Segment (BS). • BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method): international sustainability benchmark and standard for the optimal realisation (new construction) or renovation (buildings in use) and exploitation of buildings with a minimal environmental impact, based on scientifically substantiated sustainability metrics and indices encompassing a range of environmental issues, such as energy and water use assessment, the impact on health and well-being, pollution, transport, materials, waste, ecology and management processes. • BS (Business segment): Reporting structure grouping together BD’s and BU’s active in the same sector. • BU (Business unit): Any organisation with resources, staff and capital whose activity is concentrated on a single integrated core business in a given territory. • Circularity: This means reusing raw materials, components and products after their useful life in order to preserve their value. • CO2PL (CO2 Prestatie Ladder): The CO2PL (CO2 Performance Ladder) is a sustainability management tool that helps compa­ nies and governments reduce their CO2 emissions and costs. It operates as a certification and management scheme, encour­ aging organisations to adopt more sustainable practices and reduce their carbon footprint across their operations and supply chain. • Corporate governance: Corporate governance refers to the system of rules, practices and processes by which a company is managed and monitored. • CPPT (Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work): It is a consultative body within Belgian companies with at least 50 employees. Its main task is to actively contribute to improving the well-being of employees in the performance of their work. This includes aspects such as health, safety, ergonomics, hygiene at work, psychosocial aspects and making the workplace attractive. • CSRD (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive): EU legislation on ESG disclosure to come into force from 2024. This di­ rective modernises and strengthens the rules governing the environmental and social information on which companies must report. The new rules will provide investors and other stakeholders with the information they need to assess the impact of com­ Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 119 panies on people and the environment, as well as to evaluate the financial risks and opportunities arising from climate change and other sustainability issues. • DMA (Double Materiality Assessment): assesses both the impact of the company’s activities on the environment and society (from the inside out, impact materiality) and the impact of environmental and social issues on the company’s financial perfor­ mance (from the outside in, financial materiality). • DEI (Diversity, Equity & Inclusion): This concerns the involvement of different points of view and the avoidance of discrimina­ tion, by promoting diversity in various areas, such as gender, religious beliefs and origins, as well as the implementation of a policy of inclusion. • DNSH (Do No Significant Harm): The concept of “Do No Significant Harm” (DNSH) is used in the EU Taxonomy as one of the con­ ditions for classifying an activity as “green”. This means that an economic activity must not only make a substantial contribu­ tion to one or more environmental objectives, but must also not cause significant harm to any of these objectives. • eNPS (employee Net Promoter Score): This is an indicator used to measure the likelihood of your employees recommending your organisation as a place to work. To calculate the eNPS, employees are asked the following question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, how likely are you to recommend our company as a good place to work?” The responses are then classified into three catego­ ries: • Detractors (scores from 0 to 6): employees who are not very satisfied and would not recommend the company. • Passive (scores of 7 to 8): employees who are satisfied but not enthusiastic, and who would not actively recommend the company. • Promoters (scores of 9 to 10): very satisfied employees who would actively recommend the company. The eNPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of detractors from the percentage of promoters, giving a score between -100 and 100. • EPB (Energy Performance of Buildings): This refers to the efficiency with which buildings use energy. • EPD (Environmental Product Declaration): Standardised document providing detailed information on the environmental im­ pact of a product throughout its life cycle. • ESG ( Environment, Social and Governance): This is a set of criteria used to assess a company’s sustainability and ethical impact • ESG (Policy): Statement setting out the company’s approach to environmental, social and governance issues, as well as the plan for achieving this, and the indicators used to measure progress. • ESRS (European Sustainability Reporting Standards): Companies subject to the CSRD will have to report in accordance with the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). Standards are adapted to EU policies, while drawing on and contribut­ ing to international standardisation initiatives. • EU Taxonomy: regulations that determine which investments can be classified as ‘green’ and which contribute to the realisa­ tion of the EU Green Deal. The classification is based on technical screening criteria (TSC) and minimum criteria to avoid signif­ icant harm (DNSH). • Frequency rate: The frequency rate measures the number of accidents at work resulting in at least one day’s absence from work per million hours worked. It is used to assess the degree to which employees are exposed to occupational risks. • GHG - scope 1: all direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company (e.g. fleet, fuel and natural gas combus­ tion). • GHG - scope 2: all indirect emissions from the production of electricity purchased by the company. Scope 2 emissions occur physically at the facility where the electricity is generated. • GHG - scope 2 location based: This method calculates emissions using the average emission factor of the electricity network where the energy is consumed. It reflects the average emissions intensity of local electricity networks • GHG- scope 2 market based: This method calculates emissions based on the electricity that organisations have chosen to purchase, often specified in contracts or instruments such as renewable energy certificates (RECs). It takes into account the company’s specific energy supply choices. • GHG – scope 3: indirect emissions from a company’s activities, such as emissions from the production of sourced products (upstream) or from products, services or projects sold by the company (downstream). • GHG protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol): A standardised global framework for measuring and managing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from private and public sector operations, value chains and mitigation actions. It provides the most widely used standards for GHG emissions accounting, helping companies, countries and cities to track their progress towards climate goals. • Human Rights: Rights as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • ILO (International Labour Organization) : This is a specialised agency of the United Nations. Its mandate is to promote social and economic justice by establishing international labour standards • IRO (Impact, Risks and Opportunities); • Impacts: The effects that the company’s activities have on the environment and society. • Risks: The potential threats facing the company, such as climate or financial risks. • Opportunities: Potential opportunities for development and innovation • JV (Joint Venture): This is a commercial partnership in which two or more companies join forces to carry out a joint project. Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 120 • KPI (Key Performance Indicator): This is a a measure used to evaluate the efficiency of a company, a project or a specific process. • Limited assurance: Limited assurance is a form of audit in which the auditors provide a moderate opinion on a company’s financial or non-financial statements. This means that they have not obtained enough evidence to completely guarantee the veracity of the information, but they have carried out basic checks. • NACE code: This is a classification system for economic activities used in Europe • NFRD (Non-Financial Reporting Directive): The NFRD is a European directive that requires large companies to publish non-fi­ nancial information, such as their environmental, social and governance (ESG) impact. It aims to improve the transparency and accountability of companies. • NOSACQ (Nordic Occupational Safety Climate Questionnaire): NOSACQ-50 is a questionnaire used to assess the safety cli­ mate at work. It measures co-workers’ perceptions of security policies, procedures and practices in their organisation. • nZEB (nearly Zero Energy Buildings): A near-zero energy building (nZEB) is a building with a very high energy performance. • OECD: (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development): An intergovernmental organisation founded in 1961 to promote policies that improve the economic and social well-being of people throughout the world. • Reporting: Relates to financial and non-financial reporting, with a focus on the material themes identified in the DMA. • Risk management: Structured risk management- • SBM (Sustainable Business Model): A strategic approach that integrates environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria into the company’s activities and decisions. The aim is to create long-term value while minimising negative impacts on the environment and society. • SBTi (Science Based Targets initiative): an initiative that defines best practices in the area of GHG emissions reductions and targets in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement. • SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals): The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are a call to action to promote prosperity while protecting the planet from climate change. They encompass strategies that support economic growth and meet social needs. • Severity rate: The severity rate measures the seriousness of accidents at work in terms of the number of working days lost to temporary incapacity per thousand hours worked. • Sustainalytics: A company that researches and assesses the sustainability of listed companies, based on their environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. • TSC (Technical Screening Criteria): Technical selection criteria defined for each economic activity in the EU Taxonomy and used to determine whether a particular activity can be classified as “green”. • UPSI/VBS (Union professionnelle du secteur immobilier, professional union of the real estate sector): A Belgian organisation that represents the interests of real estate professionals. • Value chain: All activities and processes by which a company creates value for its customers. This includes all stages, from the sourcing of raw materials to the delivery of the final product or service to the customer. • Value Chain - upstream: This refers to the stages and activities that take place before a final product or service is produced. This includes all operations relating to the supply of raw materials, inbound logistics and the preparation processes required to start production. • Value Chain - downstream: This refers to the stages and activities that take place after the production of a final product or service. • Works Council: A works council is a staff representation body within a company. It results from the merger of staff delegates, the works council, the CHSCT (Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee) and trade union delegates Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
"Annual report 2024 - CFE 121 5.2. Annex 2: List of references ESRS 2 BP-1 5 a , ESRS 2 BP-1 5 b i  74 ESRS 2 BP-1 5 b ii  75 ESRS 2 BP-2 9 a , ESRS 2 BP-2 9 b  75 ESRS 2 BP-2 10 a, b, c & d , ESRS 2 BP-2 11 a, 11 b i & 11 b ii 76 ESRS 2 BP-2 16 76 ESRS 2 BP-2 17 77 ESRS 2 BP-2 13 a, b &c ; ESRS 2 ­BP-2 14 a, b & c 77 ESRS 2 BP-2 15 77 ESRS 2 GOV-5 ; ESRS 2 IRO-1 53 d,e,f 78 ESRS 2 GOV-4 79 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 a i,ii; ESRS 2 SBM-1 42 79 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 a iii 79 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 d 80 ESRS 2 SBM-1 42 a, b 80 ESRS 2 SBM-1 42 c 80 ESRS 2 SBM-1 42  80 ESRS 2 BP-1 5c 80 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a i 81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a 81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 b  81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a iv  81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a v 81 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a 82 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a  82 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a ii  83 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a iii  83 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 c ii 83 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 d 83 ESRS 2 SBM-2 45 a v 84 ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 a 85 ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 a ;b; 48c I, ii, iii, iv; d; f; g; h  87 ESRS 2 SBM-3 48 e 87 ESRS 2 IRO-1 53 b,c,d,g 87 ESRS 2 IRO-1 53 a 88 ESRS 2 GOV-2 89 ESRS 2 GOV-1 & 3 89 ESRS E1 GOV-3 13 97 ESRS E1 SBM-3 18 97 ESRS E1 SBM-3 19c 98 ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 a, b , ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR7b 98 ESRS E1 SBM-3 19 c, ESRS E1 SBM-3 AR 8b 98 ESRS E1.IRO-1 20 a,b,c, AR 9 et AR12a 98 Phase in requirements for ESRS ­E1.IRO-1, ­AR 11 a, b, c & d, 21, AR 12 a, b, c & d, 21 et AR 15 98 ESRS E1-2 24, 25 98 ESRS E1-2 24 99 ESRS E1-1 16a 99 ESRS E1-1, 16 h & i 99 ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a 99 ESRS E1-4, 34 e & 16 a,g 100 ESRS E1-4 33 100 ESRS E1-4 34b 100 ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j, ESRS E1-4 34f, 16b 101 ESRS E1-3 29 b 101 ESRS E1-3 29 b, ESRS E1-4 34 a,b 101 ESRS E1-3 AR21, ESRS E1-4 33, ESRS E1-4 34b 101 ESRS E1-3 29 b 101 ESRS E1-3 29a, ESRS E1-1 14, 16b,j 102 ESRS E1-4 34 a,b 102 ESRS E1-4 AR 25 a,b 102 ESRS E1-3 29 ci, ESRS E1-1 16c 103 ESRS E1-1 16 f; ESRS E1-3 29 c ii,16 c & c iii,16 c 103 ESRS E1-1 16 d 103 ESRS E1-1 16 g 104 ESRS E1-6 AR 39b 104 ESRS E1-6 50 104 ESRS E1-6 44, 46d ; ESRS ­E1-6 48 a,b, 49 a,b,  52 a,b,­ 51, AR43c, AR45e, AR46j 105 ESRS E1-6 AR 41 105 ESRS E1-6 AR39 b 105 ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c 105 ESRS E1-6 45d 105 ESRS E1-6 AR39b 105 ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c 106 ESRS E1-6 AR 46 i, 46 h 106 ESRS E1-6, AR 46 i 106 ESRS 2 BP-2 10 c, E1-6, AR 46 g 106 ESRS E1-6 AR39 b 106 ESRS E1-6 47, 42c 106 ESRS E1-6 53, 55 & AR55 107 ESRS E1-6 53 107 ESRS E1-6 53 107 ESRS E1-6 AR 55 107 ESRS E1-6 AR55 107 ESRS E1-7 107 ESRS E1-8 107 ESRS E1-9 66a,b,c,d, ESRS E1-9 AR70ci, ESRS E1-9 AR69a,b 107 Phase in requirements for ESRS E1-9 67, 68,69 & AR 72,73 108 ESRS E1-9 67e 108 ESRS 2 SBM-2 108 ESRS S1-SBM-3 109 ESRS S1-1 20 a, b, c, ESRS S1-1 21 109 ESRS S1-1 17,18,19, ESRS S1-1 23 110 ESRS S1-1 22 110 ESRS S1-1 24 a,b,c,d 110 ESRS S1-1 20b, ESRS S1-2 25, 26, 27 111 ESRS S1-3 31, 32 111 ESRS S1-3 32 111 ESRS S1-3 32 e 111 ESRS S1-3 33 111 ESRS S1-4 36, 37, 38, 39, 42 112 ESRS S1-4 43 112 ESRS S1-5 46 112 ESRS S1-5 47 112 ESRS S1-5 47 112 ESRS S1-6 49,ESRS S1-6 50 dii 112 ESRS S1-6 50 a,b 113 ESRS S1-6 51 113 ESRS S1-6 50 di 113 ESRS S1-6 50 c 113 ESRS S1-6 50 e 113 ESRS S1-11 113 Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 b 113 Phase in requirements for ESRS S1-13 83 a, 84, 85 113 ESRS S1-14 87 114 ESRS S1-14 88 114 ESRS S1-17 114 ESRS 2 SBM-2 115 ESRS S2-SBM-3 11 a,c 115 ESRS S2-16, 17, 18, 19 115 ESRS S2-2 115 ESRS S2-3 27, 28 116 ESRS S2-4 117 ESRS S2-5 41 117 ESRS S2-5 40 117 ESRS S2-5 42 117 ESRS G1-2 15a, ESRS G1-2 15b 117 ESRS G1.GOV-1_5a, ESRS G1.GOV-1_5b 118 ESRS G1-1 9, ESRS G1-1 10g, ESRS G1-3 20, 21a, 21b, 21c  118 ESRS G1-1_10a, ESRS G1-1_10c, ESRS G1-3_18a 119 ESRS G1-4_01, ESRS G1-4_02 119 Our ambitions and achievements Management report Sustainability statements Financial statements Message from the Chairman and CEO"
