"We have updated the 2023 financed emissions table to make the 2024 values comparable. With respect to the financed emissions as disclosed in the 2023 report we made the following changes: 1) we included the scope 3 emissions, 2) we have broken down scope 1 and 2 emissions per sector in scope of Terra. Financed emissions 2023 Asset class Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3 Outstanding EUR billion Measured outstanding in EUR billion Financed emissions in ktCO2e PCAF data quality score Share of financed emissions for clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach1 Economic intensity in ktCO2e/ EUR billion2 Financed emissions in ktCO2e PCAF data quality score Share of financed emissions for clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach1 Economic intensity in ktCO2e/ EUR billion2 Residential Real Estate (Mortgages) 332.4 332.0 6,034 3.4 18.2 Commercial Real Estate WB 22.7 16.6 421 3.2 86 % 25.4 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 15.2 360 3.3 86 % 23.7 - Clients not in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 1.4 61 3.0 43.6 Commercial Real Estate BB 23.7 11.6 272 3.0 80 % 23.4 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 11.1 218 3.0 80 % 19.6 - Clients not in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 0.5 54 3.0 108.0 Business Loans - Retail Banking 76.8 76.8 10,789 5.0 140.5 71,886 4.4 936.0 Business Loans - Wholesale Banking 191.4 191.0 39,772 3.7 54 % 208.2 178,436 3.7 29 % 934.0 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Power 10.1 10,410 4.5 26 % 1,026.3 4,413 4.5 2 % 435.1 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Upstream Oil & Gas 1.2 1,569 3.9 4 % 1,358.4 23,668 4.9 13 % 20,494.5 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Mid- & Downstream Oil & Gas 7.2 2,881 3.5 7 % 400.8 16,853 3.4 9 % 2,344.6 - Clients in scope of Transition plan under Terra approach: Cement 0.6 1,232 2.8 3 % 2,113.2 375 2.8 0 % 643.5 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Steel 0.7 528 3.2 1 % 747.1 867 3.1 0 % 1,225.5 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Automotive 2.9 24 2.3 0 % 8.3 2,571 2.3 1 % 884.0 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Aviation 3.5 2,610 4.0 7 % 755.3 1,566 3.9 1 % 453.0 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Shipping 4.9 2,343 4.0 6 % 481.3 1,944 4.0 1 % 399.4 - Clients not in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 160.0 18,174 3.7 113.6 126,179 3.7 788.4 Total Lending in scope 647.0 628.1 57,288 3.7 91.2 250,322 3.9 934.6 Total Equity investments 3.5 78 5.0 22.3 544 4.3 155.4 Total Corporate bonds 1.0 263 5.0 263.0 316 2.4 316.0 1 Share of financed emissions for clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra Approach is calculated as a ratio of financed emissions for clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach to the total financed emission of the asset class. 2 Economic intensity is calculated as a ratio of financed emissions to the measured outstanding. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 125"
"Other information related to our transition plan Disclosure related to decarbonisation levers Decarbonisation levers can be considered as both sector-wide levers, and the levers that are within ING’s control. Quantitative data related to these decarbonisation levers is not yet sufficiently available, as a majority of the counterparties are either not in scope for CSRD or will only be reporting this information starting from 2025. However, for the decarbonisation levers that are within ING’s control, they can be achieved through our financing strategy, as proposed in the NZBA Transition Finance Guide. For that, we see our client-engagement approach following our Client Transition Plan assessment (e.g. growing business for green finance or managed phase out for misaligned clients), committed financing targets (e.g. targets for renewable energy financing), and our exclusion and restriction in financing activities as the key levers of our portfolio transition. While we continue to collect information from our clients and counterparties, we expect more data will be available in the future to refine our transition plan. This will help us to identify and quantify how the decarbonisation levers influence our forward-looking targets. Disclosure related to locked-in GHG emissions Locked-in emissions refer to the estimates of future GHG emissions that are likely to be caused by the key assets or products sold within the operating lifetime. As a financial institution, locked-in emissions may not be directly applicable to us, but we acknowledge that the clients that we finance may continue to invest in stranded assets that jeopardise their net-zero transition. According to our Pillar 3 Template 1 disclosure, as of December 2024, the average weighted maturity of our financing towards sectors that highly contributed to climate change is around five years. While this relatively short maturity allows us to constantly review our portfolio mix, our sector and Client Transition Plan support us in managing the locked-in emissions challenge. When establishing our sector transition plan, we tailor the plan for each sector by taking into account the specific conditions, opportunities, and challenges of that particular industry. This approach helps us translate sector strategies and targets into tangible actions. For example, in the oil & gas sector, recognising that infrastructure such as LNG terminals could become locked in, as guided by the IEA, we have decided to stop providing new financing for new LNG export terminals after 2025. Similarly, in the aviation sector, we focus on increasing the proportion of next-generation aircraft in our portfolio to support investment in future-proof assets. At a client level, our Client Transition Plan assesses whether clients have set targets, strategies and actions to reduce emissions. This guides our engagement approach and the dialogues with our clients, which may also help us to identify if locked-in emissions could impact their goals. Disclosure related to the EU Paris-aligned benchmarks Under the Climate Benchmark Standards Regulation, companies are excluded from benchmark indices of companies if their emissions levels are not aligned with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Under articles 12.1 (d) to (g) of this regulation, companies are excluded from such benchmarks if their revenue originates from the activities including electricity generation, as well as the exploration, mining, extraction, refining, manufacturing or distribution related to hard coal, lignite, oil fuels and gaseous fuel. In addition, as per Article 12 (2) of the aforementioned regulation, companies that significantly harm one or more of the environmental objectives referred to in Article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 shall also be excluded from the Paris-aligned benchmarks. The screening and assessments of such exclusions are assessed internally and / or independently by the Administrators of EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks based on publicly available information and subject to the rules of estimation. Although ING Groep N.V.’s revenue does not meet the revenue-related threshold for exclusion, ING does not have the additional necessary information to disclose if ING itself is excluded from any benchmark. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 126"
"Policies, actions and performance With our sector transition plan we focus on the most carbon-intensive sectors and steering them towards net zero, as described in the previous section. As a bank, we have more measures in place to manage our impacts, risks and opportunities. These actions are not part of our sector transition plan, but do present our strategic direction and are an integral part of how we do and manage our business. This next section includes the relevant policies and guidelines to address the material impacts, risks and opportunities and the related actions to execute those policies and guidelines. Where the Environmental, Social and Governance Risk Policy addresses our negative impacts and risks, our sustainable finance guidelines and green bond framework address our opportunities. The Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Risk Policy The ESG Risk Framework, as further described in the 'ESG risk’ section, outlines ING’s approach to managing ESG risk as a risk driver of existing risk types. The framework is supported by the double materiality assessment (DMA1) and the ESG Risk Policy, ensuring the implementation of obligations, processes and control requirements from the policy. The ESG Risk Policy outlines ING’s approach to effectively identify, assess, mitigate, monitor and report ESG related risks as per ING’s ESG risk appetite, by considering applicable and material risks and negative impacts across the value chain as per ING’s DMA. The policy is applicable to ING Groep N.V. and all majority-owned and/or controlled ING entities, unless deviation is allowed by pursuant to local laws, regulations and/or supervisory acts. Relevant legislation and supervisory guidance on risk management practices, as well as ESG-related disclosures including the EBA Implementing Technical Standards (ITS) on Pillar 3 disclosures on ESG risk, the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), the EU taxonomy for sustainable activities, and Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR) are taken into account when drafting the policy. The ESG Risk Policy outlines its objectives and purpose, referencing relevant laws, regulations and global documentation. It also details the high-level obligations for entities, including control objectives to manage and mitigate ESG risks. The obligations are provided for applicable value-chain components. The ESG Risk Department, as the policy owner, performs oversight and monitoring of the policy implementation to obtain sufficient comfort of compliance with policy obligations across ING. ESG risks are an overarching set of risk drivers affecting financial, non-financial, and other overarching risks. Consequently, ESG risk management is embedded within existing risk processes and procedures related to credit granting criteria, risk appetite steering, and credit risk management. ING local entities integrate global requirements into local policy annexes, taking into account specifics of local regulations and market practices. Mostly such adjustments are done through lending criteria, local systems of loan management, systems of records and sales force procedures. Actions to implement the ESG Risk Policy As part of the risk management cycle (see the ‘ESG risk section’), ING takes a proactive approach to mitigating identified risks in line with its risk appetite. This is achieved through various risk mitigation strategies, such as reducing, avoiding, accepting, or transferring the risk. These measures are embedded in updates to existing policies and procedures across different risk categories. In the following paragraphs we elaborate on the key initiatives for each of the business lines where climate change has been identified as a material risk. Retail Banking: Residential mortgages ING regularly analyses different transmission channels and takes actions to manage associated risks. Transition and physical risks for the mortgage portfolio have been incorporated into ING’s business strategy, data controls, risk appetite, lending criteria and collateral valuation processes for local retail entities. Each local entity implements the ESG Risk Policy via the global guidance on material identified topics. Local adaptations are made in line with local regulations and market practices (reference: Organisational bodies, ‘ESG risk’ section). • Some local entities have already implemented policies to increase financing amounts and reduce pricing for properties with high-quality EPCs. Additionally, customer-engagement procedures, supported by advisory services and duty of care, aim at shifting customer interest towards low-emitting buildings. • One of the most crucial actions ING took to achieve more accurate emissions-based target setting and to better understand the effectiveness of its business strategy was implementing a set of mandatory data controls. For new originations, ING local entities implemented controls to ensure the mandatory collection of EPC data. Additionally, for the existing portfolio, controls on the development of energy performance proxy models facilitated high-quality data remediation. • Risk appetite is aligned with the business strategy and includes specific metrics for managing low-quality EPCs at new origination. Breaches in risk appetite are managed within the Risk Appetite Framework, with timely escalation to the ESG Risk Committee and top management. • The incorporation of climate-related risks into lending criteria is aligned with our risk appetite and business strategy. • Transition and physical risks are incorporated into collateral valuation through external valuers or by internally managing collateral haircuts and loan-to-value limitations for high-emitting properties. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 127 1 In addition to the results of the DMA, ING considers some ESG factors to be important (such as the negative impact of some sectors on affected communities) and the risk assessment and due diligence processes that follow will consider these factors as well. Important ESG factors are determined on a case by case basis and considers international standards such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on responsible business conduct and the UNGPs on Business and Human Rights"
"Retail Banking: Business Banking lending ING regularly reviews its business strategy and sets decarbonisation goals for sectors identified as major drivers of negative impact. Decarbonisation efforts are supported by defining relevant processes and actions, such as data collection and controls (e.g. EPC data for income-producing real estate), specifying dedicated lending criteria for these sectors, and implementing regular monitoring procedures. ING also engages with a selection of clients that have a negative impact to better understand their current situation and plans, and to support them in their transition process. ING takes actions to manage associated risks. In line with its risk appetite, ING accepts exposure to risks inherent to its business model and its commitment to financing the transition to a net-zero economy. These risks are regularly assessed, monitored and managed through client-specific assessments across different entities, defining risk-appetite limits for exposure to transition risks, key risk indicators related to physical risks, and additional acceptance criteria for specific segments like income-producing real estate. Risks that do not align with ING’s risk appetite should be effectively mitigated or may not be accepted. Mitigation strategies may include insurance for physical risks, if possible, incorporating transition and physical risks into collateral valuation, or setting covenants that require certain investments in line with the client’s transition plan. For specific sectors, lending policies are adjusted to ensure that transition and physical risks are properly assessed and mitigated as needed. All these initiatives are supported by data collection procedures and controls tailored to specific sectors, enabling a better assessment of the current portfolio and facilitating active portfolio management. Wholesale Banking lending ING conducts regular reviews of its business strategy and sets decarbonisation objectives for Terra sectors identified as having a high negative impact. These initiatives are supported by the establishment of relevant processes and mitigation actions to address the risks associated with operating in these high-emitting sectors. • Climate Risk Appetite Statement: The primary source of negative impact in Terra sectors arises from financing high-emitting corporate clients. However, the contribution varies among clients. We assess the severity of negative impact at the client level, considering their current emissions, financial capacity for transitioning to net-zero, and the quality of their transition plans. Our client-level transition risk assessment enables us to differentiate risks effectively. High-severity impact clients are managed by setting risk appetite limits to control financing, including imposing growth constraints. A specific metric is established to manage high-risk clients in sectors with the highest GHG emissions, aligning with our decarbonisation targets and guiding future lending. • Lending policies and steering signals: All sector lending policies and steering signals reference the ESG Risk Policy and apply its minimum requirements. In the steering signals, sector transition plans, addressing climate change mitigation and adaptation challenges, are crucial in defining these signals. Lending criteria are established per sector, aligned with the steering. The lending policies include ESG factors and transmission channels relevant to each sector, detailing acceptable mitigants to address potential financial risks from ESG factors. • ESG risk assessment tool: For WB, ING has developed a new ESG risk-assessment approach, which considers the Environmental (including Climate), Social and Governance risk factors, negative impacts and dependencies of our WB customers, and fully integrates the previous ESR framework. Tooling was developed to support the implementation of the assessment approach in the credit granting process. The new approach (including addition of S&G factors) was gradually rolled out over 2024, and enhancements and refinements will continue during 2025. Depending on the ESG risk-assessment outcome, mitigation actions and escalation to the ESR team, for additional due diligence and (binding) advice, might be required. The process steps are as follows: • First, a materiality check is performed for all clients and transactions to determine if a company is likely to have a significant negative impact and/or dependency on an ESG factor, based on its business model. This check is data-driven and relies on the company’s primary sector and the typical negative impacts and dependencies of that sector. • Second, for material ESG factors, an initial assessment for the entity/transaction is provided. Assessing the impact of the ESG factor and reputational risk. • Third, the front office conducts a qualitative assessment and identifies potential mitigants to either reduce the impact or the financial risk of a given transaction. Additionally, the transaction is checked against the minimum standards for the sector and the list of restricted activities and companies. • Fourth, for (very) high-risk outcomes, the ESR desk performs due diligence and provides advice which may contain additional conditions or a go/no go decision. • Fifth, credit risk experts review the ESG factor assessment. Mitigants are reviewed if deemed material for credit risk. • Client-engagement strategy: A business-driven client-engagement strategy is aimed at enhancing clients’ performance and management in terms of climate change. • Data infrastructure: The ESG data infrastructure is being improved to integrate external and internal ESG data sources across the entire business line. This integration provides a foundation for ESG data-driven solutions, such as centralised corporate-client location data and EPC label data for commercial real estate, ensuring the highest possible level of granularity. • Collateral valuation for commercial real estate: Material risks affecting property value are integrated into ING’s collateral valuation practices, including initial valuation, collateral monitoring and re-valuation. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 128"
"Guidelines addressing our opportunities Based on our DMA outcome and publicly disclosed voluntary commitments, we identified several opportunities where we aim to increase our Wholesale Banking volumes mobilised, our ambition to fund the transition to a low carbon economy via our Green funding framework, and via our Terra approach through our renewable financing ambition. Our renewable financing ambition is part of our Terra approach where we aim to triple the financing of renewable power generation to EUR 7.5 billion annually by 2025. For more information, see the power sector in our ‘transition plan’. Sustainable Finance Guidelines The Sustainable Finance Guidelines provide a framework that sets out how Sustainable Finance engages with clients and specifies the products we offer. Depending on sectors, lending, debt & capital advisory, and financial markets solutions, we tailor our proposition to each client's individual needs and sustainability ambitions. This translates into different solutions, which supports the acceleration of sustainable businesses in areas including the energy transition, the circular economy and water. The guidelines are continuously updated following new product offerings (solutions) and changes in regulatory requirements. Actions to support our clients' transition Via our volume mobilised, we are committed to supporting our Wholesale Banking clients in their sustainable transition through our product offering. In 2024, we saw EUR 130 billion of volumes mobilised and updated our ambition with the new target to mobilise EUR 150 billion of annual financing by 2027, up from our previous target of EUR 125 billion annually by 2025. The volume mobilised methodology was developed as one metric for all Wholesale Banking departments that would measure the engagement with our clients on environmental, social or governance topics, regardless of sector and jurisdiction. We differentiate between green and social products and sustainability- linked products, and align with market guidance such as the Green or Social Loan/Bond Principles and the Sustainable Linked Loan/Bond Principles when structuring these sustainable finance products. Generally, for green and social products, the proceedings are dedicated to financing a specific economic activity or asset. Sustainability-linked products are a client-engagement tool and designed to change the behaviour of a client to steer their ESG transition. For more information on the detailed methodology, see the ‘Appendix to the Executive Board report’ and ing.com. The Global Green Funding Framework Our Global Green Funding Framework promotes opportunities for ING and its investors and clients in transitioning to a low-carbon economy on both sides of the balance sheet. On the asset side, we finance sustainable projects that support ING’s sustainability ambition. In particular, we finance two main portfolios. Firstly, we finance a Green Buildings portfolio in the Netherlands and Germany, where we seek to reduce significant financed emissions in real estate and contribute to the transition towards a low-carbon economy. Secondly, we finance a Global Renewables Energy Portfolio, as we strive to lead the banking sector in driving the energy transition with our renewable financing targets. On the liability side, green funding attracts investors and clients that increasingly prioritise sustainability in their investment decisions. By issuing green bonds and other green funding instruments, ING can tap into a growing market of investors, diversify our funding sources, potentially reduce our cost of capital, and provide opportunities for our investors and clients to participate in the transition towards a low-carbon economy through our green-funding product offerings. Actions to implement Green Funding Framework The framework was updated in 2024 and incorporates ING’s revised sustainability strategy and governance. It also considers the latest developments in ESG disclosure regulations. Additionally, we are implementing a sustainable asset classification system to clearly define sustainable activities within ING and its business lines, in line with the EU Taxonomy and other market standards. Furthermore, we have extended our range of green liability instruments, offering a more diversified approach to funding green initiatives. As of 31 December 2024, ING Groep N.V. has an outstanding of EUR 9.9 billion issued green bonds. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 129"
"Retail Banking: Business Banking lending ING regularly reviews its business strategy and sets decarbonisation goals for sectors identified as major drivers of negative impact. Decarbonisation efforts are supported by defining relevant processes and actions, such as data collection and controls (e.g. EPC data for income-producing real estate), specifying dedicated lending criteria for these sectors, and implementing regular monitoring procedures. ING also engages with a selection of clients that have a negative impact to better understand their current situation and plans, and to support them in their transition process. ING takes actions to manage associated risks. In line with its risk appetite, ING accepts exposure to risks inherent to its business model and its commitment to financing the transition to a net-zero economy. These risks are regularly assessed, monitored and managed through client-specific assessments across different entities, defining risk-appetite limits for exposure to transition risks, key risk indicators related to physical risks, and additional acceptance criteria for specific segments like income-producing real estate. Risks that do not align with ING’s risk appetite should be effectively mitigated or may not be accepted. Mitigation strategies may include insurance for physical risks, if possible, incorporating transition and physical risks into collateral valuation, or setting covenants that require certain investments in line with the client’s transition plan. For specific sectors, lending policies are adjusted to ensure that transition and physical risks are properly assessed and mitigated as needed. All these initiatives are supported by data collection procedures and controls tailored to specific sectors, enabling a better assessment of the current portfolio and facilitating active portfolio management. Wholesale Banking lending ING conducts regular reviews of its business strategy and sets decarbonisation objectives for Terra sectors identified as having a high negative impact. These initiatives are supported by the establishment of relevant processes and mitigation actions to address the risks associated with operating in these high-emitting sectors. • Climate Risk Appetite Statement: The primary source of negative impact in Terra sectors arises from financing high-emitting corporate clients. However, the contribution varies among clients. We assess the severity of negative impact at the client level, considering their current emissions, financial capacity for transitioning to net-zero, and the quality of their transition plans. Our client-level transition risk assessment enables us to differentiate risks effectively. High-severity impact clients are managed by setting risk appetite limits to control financing, including imposing growth constraints. A specific metric is established to manage high-risk clients in sectors with the highest GHG emissions, aligning with our decarbonisation targets and guiding future lending. • Lending policies and steering signals: All sector lending policies and steering signals reference the ESG Risk Policy and apply its minimum requirements. In the steering signals, sector transition plans, addressing climate change mitigation and adaptation challenges, are crucial in defining these signals. Lending criteria are established per sector, aligned with the steering. The lending policies include ESG factors and transmission channels relevant to each sector, detailing acceptable mitigants to address potential financial risks from ESG factors. • ESG risk assessment tool: For WB, ING has developed a new ESG risk-assessment approach, which considers the Environmental (including Climate), Social and Governance risk factors, negative impacts and dependencies of our WB customers, and fully integrates the previous ESR framework. Tooling was developed to support the implementation of the assessment approach in the credit granting process. The new approach (including addition of S&G factors) was gradually rolled out over 2024, and enhancements and refinements will continue during 2025. Depending on the ESG risk-assessment outcome, mitigation actions and escalation to the ESR team, for additional due diligence and (binding) advice, might be required. The process steps are as follows: • First, a materiality check is performed for all clients and transactions to determine if a company is likely to have a significant negative impact and/or dependency on an ESG factor, based on its business model. This check is data-driven and relies on the company’s primary sector and the typical negative impacts and dependencies of that sector. • Second, for material ESG factors, an initial assessment for the entity/transaction is provided. Assessing the impact of the ESG factor and reputational risk. • Third, the front office conducts a qualitative assessment and identifies potential mitigants to either reduce the impact or the financial risk of a given transaction. Additionally, the transaction is checked against the minimum standards for the sector and the list of restricted activities and companies. • Fourth, for (very) high-risk outcomes, the ESR desk performs due diligence and provides advice which may contain additional conditions or a go/no go decision. • Fifth, credit risk experts review the ESG factor assessment. Mitigants are reviewed if deemed material for credit risk. • Client-engagement strategy: A business-driven client-engagement strategy is aimed at enhancing clients’ performance and management in terms of climate change. • Data infrastructure: The ESG data infrastructure is being improved to integrate external and internal ESG data sources across the entire business line. This integration provides a foundation for ESG data-driven solutions, such as centralised corporate-client location data and EPC label data for commercial real estate, ensuring the highest possible level of granularity. • Collateral valuation for commercial real estate: Material risks affecting property value are integrated into ING’s collateral valuation practices, including initial valuation, collateral monitoring and re-valuation. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 128"
"Guidelines addressing our opportunities Based on our DMA outcome and publicly disclosed voluntary commitments, we identified several opportunities where we aim to increase our Wholesale Banking volumes mobilised, our ambition to fund the transition to a low carbon economy via our Green funding framework, and via our Terra approach through our renewable financing ambition. Our renewable financing ambition is part of our Terra approach where we aim to triple the financing of renewable power generation to EUR 7.5 billion annually by 2025. For more information, see the power sector in our ‘transition plan’. Sustainable Finance Guidelines The Sustainable Finance Guidelines provide a framework that sets out how Sustainable Finance engages with clients and specifies the products we offer. Depending on sectors, lending, debt & capital advisory, and financial markets solutions, we tailor our proposition to each client's individual needs and sustainability ambitions. This translates into different solutions, which supports the acceleration of sustainable businesses in areas including the energy transition, the circular economy and water. The guidelines are continuously updated following new product offerings (solutions) and changes in regulatory requirements. Actions to support our clients' transition Via our volume mobilised, we are committed to supporting our Wholesale Banking clients in their sustainable transition through our product offering. In 2024, we saw EUR 130 billion of volumes mobilised and updated our ambition with the new target to mobilise EUR 150 billion of annual financing by 2027, up from our previous target of EUR 125 billion annually by 2025. The volume mobilised methodology was developed as one metric for all Wholesale Banking departments that would measure the engagement with our clients on environmental, social or governance topics, regardless of sector and jurisdiction. We differentiate between green and social products and sustainability- linked products, and align with market guidance such as the Green or Social Loan/Bond Principles and the Sustainable Linked Loan/Bond Principles when structuring these sustainable finance products. Generally, for green and social products, the proceedings are dedicated to financing a specific economic activity or asset. Sustainability-linked products are a client-engagement tool and designed to change the behaviour of a client to steer their ESG transition. For more information on the detailed methodology, see the ‘Appendix to the Executive Board report’ and ing.com. The Global Green Funding Framework Our Global Green Funding Framework promotes opportunities for ING and its investors and clients in transitioning to a low-carbon economy on both sides of the balance sheet. On the asset side, we finance sustainable projects that support ING’s sustainability ambition. In particular, we finance two main portfolios. Firstly, we finance a Green Buildings portfolio in the Netherlands and Germany, where we seek to reduce significant financed emissions in real estate and contribute to the transition towards a low-carbon economy. Secondly, we finance a Global Renewables Energy Portfolio, as we strive to lead the banking sector in driving the energy transition with our renewable financing targets. On the liability side, green funding attracts investors and clients that increasingly prioritise sustainability in their investment decisions. By issuing green bonds and other green funding instruments, ING can tap into a growing market of investors, diversify our funding sources, potentially reduce our cost of capital, and provide opportunities for our investors and clients to participate in the transition towards a low-carbon economy through our green-funding product offerings. Actions to implement Green Funding Framework The framework was updated in 2024 and incorporates ING’s revised sustainability strategy and governance. It also considers the latest developments in ESG disclosure regulations. Additionally, we are implementing a sustainable asset classification system to clearly define sustainable activities within ING and its business lines, in line with the EU Taxonomy and other market standards. Furthermore, we have extended our range of green liability instruments, offering a more diversified approach to funding green initiatives. As of 31 December 2024, ING Groep N.V. has an outstanding of EUR 9.9 billion issued green bonds. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 129"
"Biodiversity and ecosystems Biodiversity is the variety of and interaction between all living things (red. species) which work together in ecosystems to maintain, balance and support life. It supports in nature all we need to survive, but since we put increasing pressure on the earth by using and consuming more natural resources, we are upsetting the balance of ecosystems, leading to the loss of biodiversity. Identified impacts, risks and opportunities Our double materiality assessment concluded the below negative impact and risk for ‘state of species’ within biodiversity and ecosystems as material for our Wholesale Banking portfolio: • Negative impact on the state of species occurs due to lending to clients whose operations cause irreversible damage, such as some species disappearing entirely and others undergoing significant changes in behaviour, genetic variability, distribution, and population dynamics. • Risks can materialise following the severity of a negative impact and varies across sectors. This can result in a demise in natural resources, and can disrupt clients’ operations, leading to financial losses. Financial losses can also occur due to reputational damage and litigation risks. This section only focuses on the ‘state of species’ as per our DMA outcome. The identified negative impact for state of species is driven by our portfolio composition in the downstream value chain and the irremediable nature of the negative effects. By financing these downstream activities, we contribute to a cumulative impact on species that goes beyond the initial stages of resource extraction, land use changes, overexploitation of natural resources, increased emissions, and waste (i.e. the drivers of biodiversity loss). The cumulative impact refers to the ongoing and interconnected effects that unfold over time, leading to a significant and often irreversible decline in biodiversity and ecosystem health. Some impacts, such as species extinction, are permanent. Once a species is lost, it cannot be brought back, leading to a permanent reduction in biodiversity. In addition, a significant loss in genetic variability or niche habitat also makes it immensely difficult to bring back a species to a safe state without the risk of extinction. The impact on the state of species by different activities has very different time horizons from short- to long-term. A sudden decline in species can, for example, be caused by a spill of dangerous substances, immediately killing surrounding life. Habitat fragmentation leads to a medium-term decline of the number of species and genetic variability within a species. Climate change can lead to the extinction of species and disrupt ecosystems over decades. See the ‘Technical notes to the double materiality assessment’ for more details on the approach. There is currently still a lack of well-established and scenario-based quantification methods when it comes to the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems, and nature more broadly. However, this field is rapidly developing and is looking at both transition risks, such as nature-related policy and technology changes, as well as physical risks caused by ecosystem losses and climate–nature interactions in order to integrate them into stress testing and modelling. It is estimated that more than 50 percent of global GDP depends on biodiversity, which includes the state of species. As our portfolio reflects the real economy, we expect it to have a similar dependency.1 Assessment of current financial effects is based on ING’s internal risk database. We rely on the existing approach based on the recognition and measurement criteria of provisions in the Financial Statements, for more information see Note 15 'Provisions' and Note 41 'Legal proceedings'. For 2024, there were no significant current financial effects. At this stage, we are not able to provide a more quantitative or qualitative resilience analysis or more specific time horizons. As our business is diverse and distributed across the globe, we do not consider the opinion of location-based stakeholders into our general resilience analysis; these are considered on a transaction level. Before financing specific large-scale projects, we do consider the resilience of our clients’ businesses to local biodiversity-related transition and physical risks, including those with impacts on the local population. In environmental and social management assessments, local stakeholders give key inputs into the outcome of the analysis according to the Equator Principles. For the mid- and long-term horizons, we depend on customer engagement and the ability of our borrowers to understand possible implications of biodiversity loss on their business. ING is currently developing such expertise and so are our borrowers. We are also expecting increasing regulatory pressure from the implementation of the Global Biodiversity Framework, as well as EU-led initiatives to reduce pollution, production and use of plastics and water, and increased concern about species and protected habitats. Our nature strategy The overarching ambition of our nature strategy2 is to empower our clients to contribute to halting and reversing nature loss and support the goals of the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF). Our nature approach, available on ing.com, addresses all the main drivers of nature loss that are inextricably linked to the state of species3. While these drivers are not material for our portfolio, they are relevant for the assessment of all transactions. We are currently developing a transition plan that should become operational in the coming years, building on the structure and experience of our Terra approach for climate, enabling us to engage our clients on relevant environmental topics. Although this approach is focused on nature as a Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 130 1 World Economic Forum, New Nature Economy Report 2020. 2 More information on our nature strategy, also called our nature approach, can be found on ing.com. 3 Habitat loss, over-exploitation of natural resources, pollution, and invasive species (those not native to a specific area)."
"whole, this is relevant for our material sub-topic, state of species. The below visual illustrates our current strategic approach towards nature. Policies, actions and performance As a financial institution, we can make the largest impact through our financing activities. Therefore, we have policies and guidelines in place to manage nature-related risks and impacts. ESG Risk Policy ING’s strategic objectives of managing nature-related risks and impacts are being implemented by the ESG Risk Policy. The ESG Risk Policy is a comprehensive environmental and social risk policy that evaluates material environmental risk factors in relation to our financing. This entails the evaluation of the direct drivers of biodiversity loss, climate change, land-use, sea-use or freshwater use change, pollution and the exploitation of natural resources, as well as the extent to which the company’s operations and products/ services likely impact the state of species and habitats, and the extent and condition of ecosystems, given its sector. It further assesses the extent to which the company is likely dependent on ecosystem services for its operations, products and services, given its sector. The ESG Risk Policy addresses our negative impact on the state of species, our dependencies on species and ecosystems, and our risk related to that. Our risk is lower if we finance fewer transactions that are harmful to the state of species, or support our clients in reducing their impact by implementing minimum requirements and encouraging them to improve. The ESG Risk Policy contains several biodiversity and ecosystem-specific requirements for our financing activities with the aim of avoiding further habitat destruction and species loss. These include, but are not limited to: • We will not finance any operations located in, or that significantly impact, based on experts’ assessments, UNESCO World Heritage Sites, wetlands registered by the Ramsar Convention, or critical natural habitats registered by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Category I and II. • We will not finance operations or any newly developed asset that involves illegal logging, deforestation or burning down of tropical forests, or removal of primary or High Conservation (HCV) forests. • We conduct enhanced due diligence before financing projects requiring significant land-use change, and for operations impacting IUCN Category III and IV sites or potentially vulnerable ecosystems including ‘Key Biodiversity Areas’. These are home to critical populations of the world’s threatened species. Furthermore, we have sector-specific minimum standards that aim at minimising impacts within the industry. They especially target the industry sectors chemicals, bioenergy, forestry & agricultural commodities, manufacturing, metals & mining, and shipping. Examples of restrictions to the most harmful practices within sectors with a high risk of impacting the state of species are: • ING has no intention of expanding its palm oil client base. For existing clients, ING performs strict assessment criteria that are closely monitored; • ING will not directly finance artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) companies or activities; • Use of endangered species or non-human primates for all testing/experimental purposes; and • Arctic offshore oil & gas exploration and production. Specific requirements under the ESG Risk Policy support the traceability of products, components and raw materials. For example, ING requires all relevant clients to adopt the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) schemes or the programme for the endorsement of forest certification schemes. This includes wood plantations, traders, pulp producers, and secondary processors. ING also requires production, sourcing and consumption from ecosystems to limit the impact on species. For example, we expect that our clients producing biofuels or involved in the value chain to understand and assess the climate-related, environmental and social risks related to their biofuels business, and manage and mitigate these risks Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 131"
"responsibly. This includes a request to the client to have a sustainable sourcing policy, including supplier standards, in place together with regular monitoring. As a financial institution, we do not have sustainable land, agriculture, oceans or seas policies in places for our own operations. Under our ESG Risk Policy, we do however encourage our clients to have such policies in accordance with sector initiatives such as the Rainforest Alliance Sustainable Agriculture Standard, UTZ Certified Sustainable Agriculture Practice Standard, and Sustainable Agriculture Initiative Platform. For deforestation information, see the next section. While the ESG Risk Policy and its assessment addresses both environmental and social risks, only if risks are identified does a more in-depth assessment take place that may connect biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts to social consequences. Our deforestation and ecosystem conversion approach Deforestation and other forms of ecosystem conversion is contributing significantly to the demise of species, reducing population sizes, potentially up to the point of extinction. ING’s impact is largely connected to the activities of global Wholesale Banking clients in the commodity, food and agriculture sectors, active in cattle, palm oil, soy, cocoa, and coffee. Even though ING is not in scope of EU Deforestation Regulation, we did develop an engagement approach to address deforestation and ecosystem conversion, which was updated in 2024. We map high-risk commodities and clients via an annually published assessment1, and encourage in-scope clients to put in place: 1. Commitments to achieve no-deforestation and no-ecosystem conversion2; and 2. Actions and targets to work towards full traceability in their supply chains. Full traceability helps to verify whether and where adverse impacts occur. We recognise, however, that not all our clients currently have full traceability, and therefore we plan to engage with our clients to discuss where they stand and what their commitment is. Biodiversity offsetting and the incorporation of local and indigenous knowledge or nature-based solutions may occur but are currently not formally part of this approach. For the proportion of clients unable or unwilling to progress on the conditions set by ING, we may as of 2027, on a case-by-case basis, apply stricter credit conditions on the client, or cease financing them altogether. Our Equator Principles actions The Equator Principles (EPs) are a risk management framework adopted by financial institutions for determining, assessing, and managing environmental and social risk in large infrastructure and industrial projects3 of our Wholesale Banking project clients (downstream value chain). The application of the EPs reduces negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems and therefore (reputational) risks for ING on an ongoing basis whereby time horizons depend on the relevant project. Projects are categorised depending on the impact on human rights, climate change and biodiversity as well as the country where the project will be implemented, and requirements vary depending on the category. Activities under the EPs include: environmental and social assessments; compliance with local laws; regulations and permits or international best practice standards (often supported by independent consultants); developing an environmental and social management system; biodiversity action plan (or similar); and stakeholder engagement (especially with those having local and indigenous knowledge, monitoring and reporting). Furthermore, grievance mechanisms have to be incorporated as part of the EPs to remedy those harmed. In cases where a client does not follow the conditions, ING has the right to adjust or terminate the contract. Within the EPs, ING also follows the IFC Performance Standard PS6 – Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. The standard has the aim of avoiding, minimising, and where residual impacts remain, compensating/offsetting for risks and impacts to biodiversity and ecosystems. Depending on the habitat, the standard sets restrictions and conditions on the permitted activities. The modification of the composition of the state of species is thereby used as a distinctive factor. If biodiversity offsets are proposed as a last resort, the client has the obligation to assess the project’s residual impacts and adequate mitigation. Our planned actions and targets ING aims to integrate nature in the 'Client Transition Plan'in 2025, and in our sustainability approach more generally, and started to identify and collect data that will help us to address nature and climate performance in a holistic manner. With this information we aim to strengthen ING's environmental risk assessments and enrich engagements with clients. We also aim to incentivise them to make business decisions that benefit nature and ecosystems, such as sustainability-linked loans, and reward clients for their sustainability performance linked to positive change. ING does not currently have nature-related metrics or targets in place. This is challenging due to e.g. the lack of sectoral, science-based pathways. Steering our loan book on nature is new terrain. Therefore, we collaborate with external stakeholders to advance knowledge, standards and methodologies (e.g. TNFD Forum) to ‘mainstream nature’. Internally, we are building capabilities in our own organisation e.g. by providing trainings on nature and biodiversity to colleagues, including senior management. We also use recommendations of the UN PRB Nature Target-Setting Guidance to inform on our actions to start aligning our strategy and financing activities with the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework goals. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 132 1 More information on our deforestation and ecosystem conversion approach can be found on ing.com. 2 We check such commitments based on the Accountability Framework: https://accountability-framework.org/use-the-accountability-framework/definitions/. 3 The EPs apply globally to all industry sectors and to five financial products: 1) project finance advisory services, 2) project finance, 3) project-related corporate loans, 4) bridge loans, and 5) project-related refinance and project-related acquisition finance."
"EU Taxonomy regulation The EU Taxonomy regulation is a published regulation in the Official Journal (Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of 18 June 2020) of the European Commission (EC). The EU Taxonomy is part of the EC’s overarching Green Deal and serves as a common classification system for economic activities. The regulation, which introduces a reporting obligation for non-financial and financial corporates to disclose environmentally sustainable economic activities, is based on the six environmental objectives set out by the EU: • Climate change mitigation (CCM); • Climate change adaptation (CCA); • Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources (WTR); • Transition to a circular economy (CE); • Pollution prevention and control (PPC); and • Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO). Next to the overarching regulation, two main reporting concepts are introduced in Article 8, Delegated Act EU 2021/2178 (DA): eligibility and alignment. An activity or asset is deemed eligible when it is described in the Climate Delegated Act or the Environmental Delegated Act, after which an assessment can be performed on whether it is also Taxonomy-aligned. The following visual shows when an activity or asset is deemed aligned, also referred to as ‘environmentally sustainable’: Alignment criteria Eligible activities Activities identified in the EU Taxonomy for each environmental objective Aligned activities Activities that meet the aligned criteria SC: Substantial contribution to at least one of the six environmental objectives DNSH: Do no significant harm to any of the other five environmental objectives MS: Complying with minimum safeguards Besides intrinsically sustainable activities, the EU Taxonomy also defined two specific categories: Transitional and Enabling activities. Enabling activities allow other sustainable activities to occur, like changes to the electricity grid to allow more renewable energy to be used. Transitional activities are economic activities for which there are no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives available yet, and can only qualify where the activity supports the transition to a climate-neutral economy under strict criteria. Examples are energy-efficient vessels and aircrafts. Green Asset Ratio (GAR) and other relevant key performance indicators The most relevant key performance indicator (KPI) for credit institutions is the GAR. This is determined as the proportion of taxonomy-aligned assets (numerator) that we finance in relation to total assets covered by that financing, also referred to as ‘Total GAR assets’ (denominator). The GAR is supported by the granular templates following Annex VI of DA 2021/2178. These regulatory- required templates are included in the ‘Appendix to the Executive Board report’. These templates present a detailed breakdown of ING’s balance sheet items through the lens of the EU Taxonomy, for which the Taxonomy-aligned assets are used to calculate our Green Asset Ratio. For more information on the scope of assets included with Taxonomy information, see the ‘Technical notes to the EU Taxonomy reporting’. Moreover, following Annex XII of DA 2021/2178, ING will report on Taxonomy information for gas & nuclear exposure via additional templates. The aim of these additional templates is to provide details on six specific gas & nuclear activities that are included in the Climate Delegated Act under the CCM or CCA environmental objectives that are on ING’s balance sheet and assets under management. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 133"
