"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 351 ESG risk governance process The ‘ESG Risk Governance Guidelines’ outline the ESG risk governance process of the Group (also on climate change adaptation issues), which is divided into 5 phases: – Identification: Identification and description of ESG risk factors, also in terms of transmission channels, with particular reference to climate and environmental risks (for example, ESG risk scenarios in Stress Testing processes); – Evaluation and measurement: Determination of exposure to ESG risks (e.g. the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process); – Monitoring and control: Outpost in the continuous evolution of exposure to ESG risks (regular reporting of ESG risks to ESG Committee, monitoring of established ESG KPIs in the Risk Appetite Framework); – Mitigation: Containment of ESG risks through appropriate actions and strategies, also preventive, aimed at reducing the severity of the impact of such risks (for example, defining remedial actions in case of exceeding ESG limits in the RAF, definition of Credit Strategies for all relevant sectors); – Communication: Preparation of suitable information flows aimed at ensuring adequate transparency and knowledge of exposure to ESG risks (for example, ESG risk reporting and ESG risk disclosures, including indicators that factor in physical climate risks). In particular, with reference to the above-mentioned evaluation and measurement phase, the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process has been implemented. It aims to identify and assess ex ante the potential ESG and reputational risks (including climate and environmental risks) related to credit proposals, supplier/third-party selection connected to commercial agreements, equity investments, and extraordinary transactions. The ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process is therefore intended to represent the potential ESG and reputational risk pro昀椀les related to a speci昀椀c operation/counterparty or initiative, enabling an informed assumption of risk for the interested decision-making processes. A 昀椀rst level of clearing, carried out by the line functions, is aimed at analysing the main ESG and reputational risk factors and is performed by the structure that manages the relationship with the counterparty. In this context, credit proposals are subject to 昀椀rst-level clearing with differentiated methods based on sectoral assessments and the characteristics of the individual counterparty and operation. A second level of clearing, activated based on the results of the 昀椀rst level, is aimed at deepening and evaluating the critical issues that may have emerged from the 昀椀rst level and involves an expert analysis of these risk pro昀椀les. Generally, the outcome of the evaluation consists of an advisory opinion that includes an assessment of the main critical issues identi昀椀ed, the related mitigants, and the level of risk assigned based on proprietary metrics. In the presence of risk classes that are not consistent with the Group's risk propensity, speci昀椀c escalation mechanisms are activated. The implementation of the Equator Principles (EP) is situated within the broader framework of ESG risk assessment and management. These principles establish a framework for environmental and social risk management in the 昀椀nancing of large projects, thus strengthening the commitment to managing the impacts associated with customer business activities. The EPs are international guidelines that the Intesa Sanpaolo Group adheres to on a voluntary basis since 2007, using the latest updated version (EP IV) applicable to the 昀椀nancing of infrastructure and industrial projects that can have negative effects on people and the environment (such as energy plants, petrochemical plants, mines, infrastructure in the 昀椀eld of transport and telecommunications). These principles are based on the criteria of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank and concern, regarding to environmental issues: pollution prevention and the promotion of energy ef昀椀ciency; the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable management of natural resources. The EP apply, regardless of the industrial sector in which the customer operates, when 昀椀nancing product is used to support the development of new projects and meet speci昀椀c criteria: The project evaluation process begins with the assignment of a risk category on three levels by the Group, which involves the integrated consideration of various factors. Proportionally to the assigned risk level, the requirements to be met are de昀椀ned in terms of both documentations to be produced, and activities to be carried out by the customer. In this context, the Group incorporates environmental and social clauses into the 昀椀nancing documentation and veri昀椀es the correct implementation of the agreed clauses. Management of sustainability issues in sensitive sectors At the portfolio level and with reference to decarbonization objectives, the ESG Risk Management Guidelines also detail the ESG risk management model based on the materiality assessment of ESG risk factors with respect to the different risk families (credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, and reputational risk) and their integration into the various risk management areas. The materiality analysis (Climate/ESG Materiality Assessment) is an evaluation process that assesses the potential impacts of ESG and climate risks on the Group. This analysis is based on an organic and structured approach to risk assessment, which involves a granular breakdown of risk drivers and the integration of forward-looking elements. The aggregated analysis of the materiality of ESG risk factors at"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 352 the sector level facilitates the establishment of an enhanced risk management framework for the sectors most exposed to ESG risks. This process includes de昀椀ning sector-speci昀椀c strategies and implementing speci昀椀c measures within the Risk Appetite Framework (i.e., the RAF). These measures may consist of general criteria for limiting and excluding loans or a detailed criteria applicable to individual sensitive sectors through the application of speci昀椀c sectoral rules. GHG emissions reduction targets The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, aware of the challenge posed by climate change, has committed to contributing to the achievement of global climate goals, by pursuing the Net-Zero goal by 2050 in terms of both own emissions and loans and investments portfolios, also by setting intermediate targets by 2030. The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes and fully commits to ful昀椀lment of the targets at the Group level. Therefore, it has not set GHG emissions reduction targets or adopted transition plan at its own consolidation level. Nevertheless, the VUB Group is contributing to parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group's plan for the reduction of its ‘own’ emissions, adopted in 2022, called the ‘Own Emissions Plan’, which is compliant with Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) protocol (validation obtained in January 2025). The levers to achieve the declared decarbonization objectives are identi昀椀ed as: 1. Achievement of 100% of electricity from renewable sources purchased for its operations until 2030; 2. Reducing overall energy consumption, and especially dependence on fossil fuels for the Group's buildings; 3. Electrification of the company car fleet, both through hybrid and electric vehicles, with the consequent installation of charging stations. The Own Emissions Plan progress is periodically shared during the meetings of the ESG Committee. In this context, as of 31. December 2024, the ISP Group has already reduced emissions by 35% compared to the 2019 baseline. This reduction corresponds to 34,256 thousand tons of CO2e, and the ISP Group con昀椀rms it is on track to meet the target set for 2030. Other targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in own operations Portfolio level To achieve the objectives for reducing emissions and to accompany customers on their path towards decarbonization intermediary 2030 emission reduction targets were set on the ISP Group level, which includes the VUB Group. These targets focus on sectors identi昀椀ed based on a materiality criterion among those with the highest emission intensity as per NZBA. The VUB Group has not set targets on its own consolidated level. To support this objective, the VUB Group has identi昀椀ed several levers: – Dedicated products and incentives, including: o Access to a credit ceiling dedicated to the circular economy, aimed at customers who adopt a circular business model with innovative methods, granting them supportive conditions for access to credit. The ceiling does not follow the technical screening criteria of the European Taxonomy, having been developed before its entry into force, in close partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation; o Green financings aimed at financing projects with a significant environmental impact; o Sustainability-linked financing that provides a discount/bonus mechanism as an incentive for customers who meet predefined sustainability targets; o Advisory services to support customer decarbonization and accompany them in the utilization of proper ESG financial tools linked to their strategies and transition plans. To ensure constant progress, internal KPIs have been set in both Retail and Corporate banking Divisions and their development is being monitored regularly by ESG Committee. Actions and resources related to climate change To support its climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, the VUB Group has designed several action types: – Improvement of physical infrastructure – energy efficiency, renewable energy, and GHG avoidance in own buildings operation; – Improvement of data infrastructure; – Awareness raising and marketing support for dedicated financial products and incentives; – VUB continues in its own ‘ATLAS’ series of conferences, discussions, and panel talks focused on good practices,"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 353 innovation, and knowledge sharing launched in 2022; – Partnerships with professional organizations for knowledge sharing. This involves both knowledge sharing for improvement of Group's own infrastructure, practices and strategies, as well as improvement of the sustainability of the overall economy, primarily in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. The Group is active in the following areas where awareness raising, education, best practice and knowledge exchange projects and events enable mitigation and/or adaptation to climate change: – Sustainable buildings and their energy efficiency, sustainable construction and renovation; e.g. Buildings For Future, Slovak green building council; – Sustainable urban planning, climate change adaptation of cities, and green infrastructure; e.g. Institute for Passive Houses, International Climate Adaptation Institute, Manifest2020; – Circular economy, waste reduction, and sustainable procurement; e.g. Circular Slovakia, Sustainable e-shop project with VISA and Heureka; – Sustainable and biodiversity friendly agriculture and food production; e.g. Living Farm project of Environmentalist association BROZ; – Environmental education and support for innovation for children and young people, e.g. For Better Future of Earth, Lifbee Academy; – Support for relevant programs and projects of VUB Foundation. This includes 昀椀nancial support, provision of creative agency services, and covering marketing costs for projects and programs Envirogrants, and ATLAS Award to raise public awareness, motivate and foster the shift towards sustainability. Climate change actions and resources at the own operation In line with its commitment to addressing climate change, the Bank has implemented and planned a series of key actions aimed at mitigating its environmental impact and achieving medium- and long-term sustainability goals: 1. Energy Ef昀椀ciency Initiatives: o Installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of the VUB headquarters started in 2024, an additional installation is currently underway. o The Bank is progressively replacing obsolete air conditioning and electrical systems at selected sites, specifically LED re-lamping (6 premises), refurbishment of HVAC systems (20 locations), complete refurbishment of electricity consuming systems (5 branches), replacement of boiler (1 branch), refurbishment of natural gas-based heating (7 locations), replacement of windows and building envelope insulation (2 branches). ▪ A comprehensive energy efficiency study was conducted for all the Bank’s premises; ▪ A study on the deployment of LED lighting technology was conducted, with gradual implementation planned. 2. Transition to Renewable Energy: o The Bank finished a procurement process and from the next contractual cycle starting in 2025 the Group will purchase 100% renewable electric energy (Guarantees of origin) via bundled contract for own premises. 3. Fleet and Mobility Enhancements: o The company car fleet is undergoing a gradual transition to hybrid and fully electric vehicles. o Charging stations for electric vehicles are being installed at VUB premises. 4. Infrastructure Improvements: o Ongoing studies are assessing the feasibility of green roofs and green walls, renewable energy, use of sustainable cooling gases. 5. Paper and Material Usage Optimization: o The Bank has long sought and implemented strategies to reduce paper and material consumption. From 2024 onwards, all office paper is being procured exclusively from eco-friendly, sustainable sources. For main material categories there are defined criteria to minimize its negative impact. These actions are expected to contribute signi昀椀cantly to the reduction of the Group’s negative impacts in medium- term and serve as building blocks for long-term sustainability extending to 2050 Medium-term objectives include completing infrastructure upgrades and expanding the deployment of sustainable technologies. The Bank leverages its annual capital budget cycle to ensure funding for these measures while strategically allocating"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 354 resources to areas of the highest impact. Successful implementation is also contingent on access to appropriate technologies, employee expertise, and supportive regulatory frameworks. Climate change actions and resources at the portfolio level In line with the regulatory evolution on sustainability, the Group adopts a medium-long term strategy and a cross- cutting and holistic approach to ESG issues, which is based on: – The definition of a Group ESG strategy; – The integration of ESG factors into the general Risk Management framework, particularly within the Risk Appetite Framework, where a specific section is dedicated to ESG risks and climate change; – The integration of ESG factors in credit processes and in the definition of credit strategies; – A careful evaluation of ESG factors in the development of policies, products and services; – The spread of ESG risk culture throughout the corporate organization. With reference to climate change mitigation, the integration of ESG risks into the Risk Management framework takes place through various actions. In particular, the RAF integrates and translates into speci昀椀c measures what is de昀椀ned in terms of strategic guidelines, ESG/Climate Materiality Assessment and ESG Sectoral Colour Coding, identifying year by year limits, Key Risk Indicators, and speci昀椀c actions aimed at containing ESG risks, with particular reference to the sectors most exposed to such risks. – Specific limits with reference to exposure to the Coal Mining and Oil & Gas sectors, particularly for Coal mining the limit is revised annually in line with the objective of phasing out financing by 2025; – The monitoring of new disbursements broken down by energy performance classes (EPC) with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and, consequently, reducing the transition risk related to mortgage loans; – Specific Risk appetite limits on share of collateral with EPC classes F and G and with Very high physical risk in the Retail Mortgage portfolio, with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and consequently, reducing the risk of transition and physical risk related to mortgage loans. In particular, with reference to the lower energy performance classes (APE certifications) and areas with very high physical risk; – Transactions with potentially high ESG risks undergo ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, utilizing the ESG profile and score of the counterparty and considerations on the impacts that physical and transition risk drivers can have. Within the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, where the ESG pro昀椀le and score of the counterparty are used, which also includes considerations on the impacts that physical climate risk drivers might have. The actions reported are implemented as an essential part of the Group's strategy for managing climate risks and do not require speci昀椀c dedicated resources exclusively for these actions, as they are included in the general context of the Group's ESG strategy. An exact quanti昀椀cation of the reduction of emissions associated with each action at portfolio level is not feasible, due to the complex connection between the actions taken and the trend of emissions in the reference sectors of the counterparties. In 2024, the VUB Group continued its commitment to retail customers, both individual and small business, through the provision of mortgages and loans with environmental purposes. Via Green mortgages, the VUB Bank incentivizes clients with a preferential interest rate for 昀椀nancing a purchase of a property with high energy performance class (‘A’). Clients with other properties are encouraged to assess their energy ef昀椀ciency and when they provide a valid EPC, they receive a reduction of loan granting fee. In addition to offering a new mortgage the VUB Group has implemented a series of activities aimed at collecting the information on the energy performance of the properties that guarantee existing mortgages, which further raises awareness among clients and allow the Bank to precisely manage the associated transition risk. Green loan is a 昀椀nancial solution with incentive for clients who want to improve energy performance through, for example, the replacement of windows and high-yield boilers, insulation and the installation of solar and photovoltaic panels. To support sustainable transition of SME and Corporate clients, the VUB Bank introduced the TERRA product line, offering loans with preferential interest rates to support sustainability in areas of environmental, social and governance sustainability. Within the TERRA Enviro two products are offered: – GREEN S-LOAN+: Dedicated loan to support all types of corporate investments and projects capable of generating a positive environmental impact on processes, infrastructures, technologies, services and products in line with the LMA categorization (e.g., Renewable energies, Energy efficiency, Pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of natural resources, Clean transportation, Sustainable water and"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 355 wastewater management, Climate change adaptation, Eco-efficient and/or circular economy, Green buildings or Projects aimed at activities with zero CO2 emissions, such as electricity production using solar, wind, oceanic, hydroelectric technology). – ENVIRO LOAN: Dedicated loan supporting circular economy projects, including resource efficiency, sustainable sourcing, recyclability, and green innovation. For these loans, individual ESG KPIs can be set up with the client. Below is a summary of the total amount disbursed during the 2024 昀椀nancial year in the 昀椀eld environmental sustainability by business line: Business line Disbursed amount (in million EUR) Retail 599.2 Corporate 187.4 Amount disbursed in Retail Business line relates predominantly to Mortgage loan with EPC A and B. The disbursed data of the 昀椀nancings are calculated using management balances. The VUB Group supports sustainable choices of clients also in the area of investments. Please refer to the standard ESRS S4 – Consumers and end-users, section Sustainability-conscious investments by the VUB Group. Actions and resources related to supply chain To manage the impacts from value chain each vendor undergoes a quali昀椀cation process through the Supplier Portal. The evaluation of registered suppliers considers not only their economic-昀椀nancial and technical-organizational characteristics but also aspects related to business ethics, respect for human rights, workers' rights, and the environment. This evaluation is based on speci昀椀c questionnaires and/or the possession of certain certi昀椀cations (including ISO 50001 and 14001, and the adoption of an energy management system compliant with ISO 50001 standards). In 2024, completing the ESG questionnaire became mandatory as a prerequisite for participating in tenders or direct negotiations through the Supplier Portal and the ESG evaluation was incorporated into the technical assessment of the supplier’s offer in the tender evaluation."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 348 chain namely 昀椀nancing operations to Non-昀椀nancial corporations that did not develop transition plan nor committed to adequate GHG emission goals or loans collateralized by immovable property with low energy ef昀椀ciency. The assessment of exposure to transition events has been concluded as follows: – Credit risk related to counterparties failing to define a transition plan is currently assessed as immaterial. The likelihood of such an event is considered low; – Market risk arising from counterparties' failure to define a transition plan is also assessed as immaterial. This risk is not highly relevant within the business model of the VUB; – Liquidity risk associated with assets not aligned with sustainability objectives has been assessed as immaterial. The assessment, including the HQLA relevance analysis, indicates that such assets are unlikely to be classified as High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), meaning that their impact on overall liquidity is lower. The assessment process is expected to evolve over time to incorporate additional forward-looking methodologies for evaluating transition risks and opportunities, especially further scenario-based analysis such as NGFS or IEA (International Energy Agency) climate scenarios. The only material risk identi昀椀ed in the double materiality assessment is reputational risk arising from both transition and physical climate risks: 1. Transition risk: Failure to meet targets defined in the support of climate change mitigation (e.g., failure to meet targets under the Net Zero Banking Alliance); 2. Physical risk: Lack of focus on objectives supporting climate change adaptation, which could lead to reputational impacts related to business interruptions. This risk is classi昀椀ed as both a transition risk and a physical risk, as it is driven by evolving stakeholder expectations regarding mitigation commitments as well as the company’s response to physical climate-related challenges. A formal resilience analysis based on climate scenarios has not been conducted. However, selected stress tests were performed to assess the potential impact of ESG-related risks on credit risk. These tests are part of the 2024 ICAAP/ILAAP Adverse scenario, and focused on estimating potential effects on risk-weighted assets (RWA) and pro昀椀t/loss (P&L). The stress test methodology includes: – Corporate portfolio: Economic sectors were classified by ESG sensitivity based on an internal methodology. The probability of default (PD) was adjusted according to sector classification; – Retail mortgages: Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) were used as an indicator of transition risk, with adjustments applied to loss given default (LGD); – Flood event scenario: Potential effects of flooding were modelled for the retail portfolio, considering increased PD for affected borrowers and higher LGD for unsecured loans. The approach is based on expert judgment, and does not use climate scenario models such as NGFS or IEA. – The methodology is under development, and may be expanded in the future to incorporate additional factors. – The stress test analysis shows that the VUB Group is able to maintain a sound capital adequacy even under an adverse scenario. VUB Group recognizes the value of a comprehensive resilience analysis and intends to further develop this approach in the future, especially in relation to more detailed climate scenarios. Opportunities in relation to the transition to a low-carbon economy were identi昀椀ed, including the potential for product innovation, competitive advantage through sustainable practices, improved ef昀椀ciency through energy savings and waste reduction and improvement of brand reputation resulting from the achievement of objectives in support of climate change mitigation. Connection to climate-related assumptions in 昀椀nancial statement The company has utilized climate scenarios primarily for the identi昀椀cation and prediction of climate-related risks. Most assessed risks were determined to be immaterial, and as a result, no direct integration of climate scenario outcomes into 昀椀nancial statement assumptions has been made at this stage. However, reputational risk related to climate targets and commitments were assessed as material, but they have not yet been quanti昀椀ed or directly linked to 昀椀nancial statement assumptions. To ensure proactive risk management, the company has established limits and early warning indicators to monitor potential future developments and reassess materiality if necessary."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 349 Integration of climate-related performance in incentive schemes The VUB Group, in line with ISP Group approach, considers it essential to address and monitor climate-related issues and therefore implemented intermediary objectives in the incentive system. The ESG KPI was assigned in the 2024 target sheets to the CEO and approximately 150 managers of the VUB Group in Slovakia and the Czech Republic The characteristics of the KPI are in line with the growing attention on these issues by the Group's Customers, Shareholders, Regulators and other Stakeholders. With speci昀椀c reference to the variable remuneration of the Managing Director and CEO, climate aspects are taken into account both in the Annual Incentive System (15% weight) and in the long-term incentive plan. Speci昀椀cally, the KPIs are linked to the 昀椀nancing of clients in transition to sustainability: 1. % of new production of Sustainable Loans to Retail Customers; 2. % of new production of Corporate & SME Sustainable Loans. Finally, with reference to variable remuneration to Management – 3 bene昀椀ciaries (including the CEO, the remaining Top Management Risk Takers of the Group and the other Group Risk Takers), climate aspects are taken into account through Performance Share Plans (PSP) and recognized against the achievement of performance objectives within the composite ESG KPI. For further information please refer to standard ESRS2 – General disclosure, section Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes. Strategy for combating climate change Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Climate change represents one of the most signi昀椀cant global challenges of our time, with far-reaching impacts on the natural environment, human health, and economic prosperity. Effectively combating this existential threat requires a well-crafted, multidimensional strategy that encompasses global collaboration, technological innovation, policy reform, and community engagement. The VUB Group, recognizing the crucial role that 昀椀nancial institutions can play in this area, has developed and adopted a series of policies governing its business operations, resource procurement, 昀椀nancing and investments to address climate change mitigation, adaptation, energy ef昀椀ciency, renewable energy deployment, and transition to climate neutrality of the economy. These policies incorporate the interests of stakeholders, collected through targeted surveys and dialogues, while also considering feedback from rating agencies and 昀椀nancial regulators. In 2020, the VUB Bank, as a pioneer in the Group in Slovakia, published the Green Manifest where it declared its commitment to sustainability and environmental protection, as an integral part of its business DNA. With regards to climate change, Green Manifest declares supporting the transition to carbon neutral economy. The Bank is committed to supporting its clients by providing sustainable banking products and services while continuously enhancing internal standards and processes. It prioritizes energy ef昀椀ciency, emphasizes the use of renewable energy sources, and collaborates with suppliers who share its commitment to sustainability and engages employees by fostering a culture of environmental responsibility. Furthermore, the Bank supports the non-pro昀椀t sector through partnerships that promote environmental education, and climate change awareness in Slovakia. In this effort, VUB Bank is accompanied by its subsidiaries and strongly supported by the parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group. The cornerstone of VUB Group's environmental policy is its Code of Ethics, a binding document outlining standards and principles for managing and controlling bodies, for employees and contracted third parties in line with the commitments made by the ISP Group in relation to international initiatives: UN Global Compact, the contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, the Women's Empowerment Principles, the Net Zero Alliances as well as the PRB Principles for Responsible Banking, PRI Principles for Responsible Investment and PSI Principles for Sustainable Insurance Programs under the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). It promotes ef昀椀cient and conscious resource use, sustainable decision-making, and 昀椀ght against climate change. The Code also provides guidelines for management of indirect environmental impacts in value chain among others by promoting services and products to foster the development of a low-emission economy, also through the dissemination of renewable energy and energy ef昀椀ciency improvement. It also speci昀椀es the principles of the process of managing purchases of goods and services: – Transparency and fairness in the selection and qualification of suppliers throughout the entire supply chain, also evaluating local specificities, respect for the environment, human rights, working conditions, business ethics; – The adoption of measures and tools aimed at minimizing negative impacts and promoting awareness of ESG risks and opportunities."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 350 The document is publicly available on the Bank's website for all stakeholders (Code of ethics | VUB Bank). The implementation of the Code of Ethics has resulted in supplementary policies and procedures aimed at speci昀椀c areas of operations. For resource procurement, it is the Green Banking Procurement Rules that ensure responsible purchasing in areas such as energy, of昀椀ce materials, and sustainable renovations via identi昀椀cation of the best design solutions, products, or services from an environmental perspective throughout its life cycle, considering market availability. Key impacts considered include energy consumption and the resulting carbon dioxide emissions, waste generation, and the consumption of materials such as paper, toner, stationery, and of昀椀ce machines. The choice of supplier takes into account not only its specialization in the required product 昀椀eld and its economic and 昀椀nancial stability but also its reputational and sustainability pro昀椀le across all ESG areas. This includes assessing potential external risks, such as ongoing judicial and insolvency proceedings. In its operations, the Group adheres to the Environmental and Energy Policy of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. This policy aims to minimize environmental impacts, manage ESG risks, and ensure compliance with regulations. It emphasizes ef昀椀cient resource and energy use, careful supplier selection based on ethical, social, and environmental criteria, and the prevention of environmental harm. The Guidelines for the Governance of environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks address climate change within the broader context of environmental risks across operations, the value chain, and the 昀椀nanced portfolio. These guidelines aim to mitigate material risks associated with climate change and support the transition to a low- carbon economy. The guidelines establish a framework for managing sustainability risks, stating key principles, specifying sectors sensitive to ESG or reputational risks, de昀椀ning responsibilities, and monitoring mechanisms. The core focus is placed on limiting exposure to high-carbon industries, integrating ESG risk factors into credit policies, and promoting sustainable 昀椀nancing solutions. The effectiveness of the policy is monitored through internal limits, ESG Committee oversight, and risk appetite thresholds. The guidelines apply across the entire Group, including all banking activities, risk management processes, and 昀椀nancing operations. They cover both corporate and retail portfolios, ensuring ESG factors are assessed in client screenings and sectoral risk evaluations. Exclusions apply primarily to the coal mining and oil and gas sectors, where stricter rules aim at phasing out exposure for coil mining. The policy aligns with international sustainability frameworks, including the UN 2030 Agenda, the European Commission’s Action Plan for Sustainable Growth, the EBA Guidelines, and ECB expectations. The policy takes into account the interests of key stakeholders, including regulators, investors, and clients, by balancing 昀椀nancial stability with sustainability goals. In lending activities, sustainability-linked 昀椀nancing and advisory services are provided to help clients transition to greener business models. The policy is integrated into internal governance frameworks and embedded in the Group’s risk appetite and credit policies, which de昀椀ne VUB Group’s lending portfolio strategy for each relevant sector based on ESG aspects, among others. Relevant guidelines are communicated to stakeholders through corporate reports, regulatory disclosures, and direct engagement with clients and investors. In order to steer the development of 昀椀nanced portfolio, the Group equipped itself with Rules for the classi昀椀cation of sustainable credit products and operations. This regulation applies to Group companies and outlines various categories of environmentally sustainable activities, with internal criteria different from the European Taxonomy, in favour of both climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation. The classi昀椀cation categories of credit products and sustainable credit operations have been de昀椀ned in line with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Loan Market Association (LMA) on Green Loan, Social Loan and Sustainability-linked Loan Principles. These principles provide a shared framework at a global level, promoting standardization and transparency of practices in the sustainable 昀椀nancial sector. The Group publicly declares its environmental commitments across 昀椀nancial products, suppliers, and the overall environmental impact. The above-mentioned internal policies are accessible to respective internal stakeholders via the Group’s intranet. The main goal of the Environmental Social and Governance Committee (‘ESG Committee’), as a permanent consultative and decision-making committee of VUB Bank, is to coordinate and steer ESG related matters and to ensure the correct implementation of the ESG strategy, policies and respective ISP Group guidelines within the VUB Group. It also regularly evaluates policy effectiveness, reviews sustainability KPIs, and oversees risk mitigation measures. It is headed by the Deputy CEO who acts as ESG Manager - the top management level responsible for the implementation of the policies in sustainability area."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 351 ESG risk governance process The ‘ESG Risk Governance Guidelines’ outline the ESG risk governance process of the Group (also on climate change adaptation issues), which is divided into 5 phases: – Identification: Identification and description of ESG risk factors, also in terms of transmission channels, with particular reference to climate and environmental risks (for example, ESG risk scenarios in Stress Testing processes); – Evaluation and measurement: Determination of exposure to ESG risks (e.g. the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process); – Monitoring and control: Outpost in the continuous evolution of exposure to ESG risks (regular reporting of ESG risks to ESG Committee, monitoring of established ESG KPIs in the Risk Appetite Framework); – Mitigation: Containment of ESG risks through appropriate actions and strategies, also preventive, aimed at reducing the severity of the impact of such risks (for example, defining remedial actions in case of exceeding ESG limits in the RAF, definition of Credit Strategies for all relevant sectors); – Communication: Preparation of suitable information flows aimed at ensuring adequate transparency and knowledge of exposure to ESG risks (for example, ESG risk reporting and ESG risk disclosures, including indicators that factor in physical climate risks). In particular, with reference to the above-mentioned evaluation and measurement phase, the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process has been implemented. It aims to identify and assess ex ante the potential ESG and reputational risks (including climate and environmental risks) related to credit proposals, supplier/third-party selection connected to commercial agreements, equity investments, and extraordinary transactions. The ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process is therefore intended to represent the potential ESG and reputational risk pro昀椀les related to a speci昀椀c operation/counterparty or initiative, enabling an informed assumption of risk for the interested decision-making processes. A 昀椀rst level of clearing, carried out by the line functions, is aimed at analysing the main ESG and reputational risk factors and is performed by the structure that manages the relationship with the counterparty. In this context, credit proposals are subject to 昀椀rst-level clearing with differentiated methods based on sectoral assessments and the characteristics of the individual counterparty and operation. A second level of clearing, activated based on the results of the 昀椀rst level, is aimed at deepening and evaluating the critical issues that may have emerged from the 昀椀rst level and involves an expert analysis of these risk pro昀椀les. Generally, the outcome of the evaluation consists of an advisory opinion that includes an assessment of the main critical issues identi昀椀ed, the related mitigants, and the level of risk assigned based on proprietary metrics. In the presence of risk classes that are not consistent with the Group's risk propensity, speci昀椀c escalation mechanisms are activated. The implementation of the Equator Principles (EP) is situated within the broader framework of ESG risk assessment and management. These principles establish a framework for environmental and social risk management in the 昀椀nancing of large projects, thus strengthening the commitment to managing the impacts associated with customer business activities. The EPs are international guidelines that the Intesa Sanpaolo Group adheres to on a voluntary basis since 2007, using the latest updated version (EP IV) applicable to the 昀椀nancing of infrastructure and industrial projects that can have negative effects on people and the environment (such as energy plants, petrochemical plants, mines, infrastructure in the 昀椀eld of transport and telecommunications). These principles are based on the criteria of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank and concern, regarding to environmental issues: pollution prevention and the promotion of energy ef昀椀ciency; the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable management of natural resources. The EP apply, regardless of the industrial sector in which the customer operates, when 昀椀nancing product is used to support the development of new projects and meet speci昀椀c criteria: The project evaluation process begins with the assignment of a risk category on three levels by the Group, which involves the integrated consideration of various factors. Proportionally to the assigned risk level, the requirements to be met are de昀椀ned in terms of both documentations to be produced, and activities to be carried out by the customer. In this context, the Group incorporates environmental and social clauses into the 昀椀nancing documentation and veri昀椀es the correct implementation of the agreed clauses. Management of sustainability issues in sensitive sectors At the portfolio level and with reference to decarbonization objectives, the ESG Risk Management Guidelines also detail the ESG risk management model based on the materiality assessment of ESG risk factors with respect to the different risk families (credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, and reputational risk) and their integration into the various risk management areas. The materiality analysis (Climate/ESG Materiality Assessment) is an evaluation process that assesses the potential impacts of ESG and climate risks on the Group. This analysis is based on an organic and structured approach to risk assessment, which involves a granular breakdown of risk drivers and the integration of forward-looking elements. The aggregated analysis of the materiality of ESG risk factors at"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 352 the sector level facilitates the establishment of an enhanced risk management framework for the sectors most exposed to ESG risks. This process includes de昀椀ning sector-speci昀椀c strategies and implementing speci昀椀c measures within the Risk Appetite Framework (i.e., the RAF). These measures may consist of general criteria for limiting and excluding loans or a detailed criteria applicable to individual sensitive sectors through the application of speci昀椀c sectoral rules. GHG emissions reduction targets The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, aware of the challenge posed by climate change, has committed to contributing to the achievement of global climate goals, by pursuing the Net-Zero goal by 2050 in terms of both own emissions and loans and investments portfolios, also by setting intermediate targets by 2030. The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes and fully commits to ful昀椀lment of the targets at the Group level. Therefore, it has not set GHG emissions reduction targets or adopted transition plan at its own consolidation level. Nevertheless, the VUB Group is contributing to parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group's plan for the reduction of its ‘own’ emissions, adopted in 2022, called the ‘Own Emissions Plan’, which is compliant with Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) protocol (validation obtained in January 2025). The levers to achieve the declared decarbonization objectives are identi昀椀ed as: 1. Achievement of 100% of electricity from renewable sources purchased for its operations until 2030; 2. Reducing overall energy consumption, and especially dependence on fossil fuels for the Group's buildings; 3. Electrification of the company car fleet, both through hybrid and electric vehicles, with the consequent installation of charging stations. The Own Emissions Plan progress is periodically shared during the meetings of the ESG Committee. In this context, as of 31. December 2024, the ISP Group has already reduced emissions by 35% compared to the 2019 baseline. This reduction corresponds to 34,256 thousand tons of CO2e, and the ISP Group con昀椀rms it is on track to meet the target set for 2030. Other targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in own operations Portfolio level To achieve the objectives for reducing emissions and to accompany customers on their path towards decarbonization intermediary 2030 emission reduction targets were set on the ISP Group level, which includes the VUB Group. These targets focus on sectors identi昀椀ed based on a materiality criterion among those with the highest emission intensity as per NZBA. The VUB Group has not set targets on its own consolidated level. To support this objective, the VUB Group has identi昀椀ed several levers: – Dedicated products and incentives, including: o Access to a credit ceiling dedicated to the circular economy, aimed at customers who adopt a circular business model with innovative methods, granting them supportive conditions for access to credit. The ceiling does not follow the technical screening criteria of the European Taxonomy, having been developed before its entry into force, in close partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation; o Green financings aimed at financing projects with a significant environmental impact; o Sustainability-linked financing that provides a discount/bonus mechanism as an incentive for customers who meet predefined sustainability targets; o Advisory services to support customer decarbonization and accompany them in the utilization of proper ESG financial tools linked to their strategies and transition plans. To ensure constant progress, internal KPIs have been set in both Retail and Corporate banking Divisions and their development is being monitored regularly by ESG Committee. Actions and resources related to climate change To support its climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, the VUB Group has designed several action types: – Improvement of physical infrastructure – energy efficiency, renewable energy, and GHG avoidance in own buildings operation; – Improvement of data infrastructure; – Awareness raising and marketing support for dedicated financial products and incentives; – VUB continues in its own ‘ATLAS’ series of conferences, discussions, and panel talks focused on good practices,"
"345 ESRS E1 – Climate Change Introduction Climate change is increasingly impacting our ecosystems, with disruptive effects on the social well-being, economic development, and 昀椀nancial stability of current and future generations. Transforming the economies toward sustainability requires not only reducing greenhouse gas emissions to prevent devastating global temperature increase and ecosystems collapse but also rapidly enhancing community resilience and also adapting the global consumption and production patterns. In this, the crucial role of 昀椀nancial institutions as enablers and catalysts of economy change, requires deep understanding the commercial risks and opportunities, and knowing how to act on them. VUB Group, with support of the parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group, is aware of both the negative and positive aspects in this area, and internalized this commitment to support the green transition via supporting businesses and the circular economy as well as reducing its own emissions. The VUB Group understands transition to sustainability as an innovation-driven process that promotes the transition to a system of regenerative production and consumption that has economic, social and environmental sustainability as its goal. Since 2022, the VUB Group brings on the Slovak market 昀椀nancial products that enable companies, public sector entities, and individuals in these transition initiatives. Materiality assessment process on impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change As described in the chapter ESRS2 – General information, Double materiality analysis, the VUB Group has conducted the double materiality analysis, i.e. an analysis of the main relevant sustainability issues, according to a dual perspective: – The impact materiality, which with an inside-out perspective takes into account the impacts of the VUB Group connected to the VUB Group's own operations and the relevant value chain upstream and downstream for the VUB Group, both positive and negative, actual or potential; – Financial materiality, which adopts an outside-in perspective considering sustainability issues that generate: o Risks that affect or may affect the development of the VUB Group, its financial and asset situation, the economic result, the financial flows, access to financing or the cost of capital in the short, medium or long term; o Opportunities that have, or that can be predicted to have, a significant financial impact on the VUB Group in the short, medium or long term. The impacts, risks and opportunities in the ESRS E1 – Climate change are identi昀椀ed by taking into account the speci昀椀cities of the VUB Group. In particular, the mapping of such impacts, risks and opportunities was carried out on the basis of the context in which the VUB Group de昀椀nes and implements its activities and business relationships in the 昀椀eld of climate change. This includes internal policies and initiatives supporting the climate neutrality and energy ef昀椀ciency, as well as safeguards put in place to minimize the negative climate-related impacts within its own operations and across the upstream and downstream value chain. Additionally, the assessment considered the risks associated with climate change that the VUB Group may be exposed to. The mapping of impacts also re昀氀ects the views of external stakeholders (e.g. expert organizations in the community and environment). For the purpose of impact materiality, the assessment of the identi昀椀ed impacts was conducted through interviews with the internal structures and external stakeholders, as well as through a detailed qualitative-quantitative analysis of the main relevant indicators related to climate change attributed to the VUB Group, and, where feasible, to individual locations. The assessment was carried out on the basis of the criteria required by the reference legislation (i.e. scale, scope, irremediability nature of the impact and probability), In particular, with reference to: – Own operations: The assessment of impacts was carried out in relation to the physical operations of VUB Group including: owned buildings and buildings rented from other entities, premises (branches, offices), sites of ATMs and the corporate fleet of vehicles. Geographical scope of the analysis covers Slovakia and the Czech Republic; – Upstream value chain: The assessment of impacts was carried out through the analysis of internal documentation relevant to procurement – Rules for green banking procurement, ESG evaluation of suppliers, and feedback from suppliers to VUB's ESG Questionnaire; – Downstream value chain: An analysis was carried out on the indirect impacts conveyed through the exposures in the financed portfolios of the VUB Group, especially the exposure to companies belonging to sectors considered to have a significant impact on climate change and/or are considered highly exposed to physical and transition risks caused by climate change. In addition, investment and financing strategies, policies, and criteria"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 346 in this area have been considered, including credit risk, market risk, strategic risk appetite and safeguards for avoiding the negative impacts. The assessment identi昀椀ed these impacts: – Own operations: Material negative impacts in both the direct and indirect emissions, connected to direct energy consumption and non-renewable energy use by the VUB Group. These negative impacts are interconnected with the positive impacts of adopted internal policies, corporate strategies and initiatives aimed at reducing the GHG emissions by increasing energy efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy sources, producing own renewable energy, and increasing the share of hybrid and electric vehicles in the fleet; – Upstream value chain: A potential positive impact to progressive reduction of indirect GHG emissions from the supply chain through adoption of supplier selection criteria preferring those that have adopted climate change neutrality commitments, mitigation policies, transition plans, etc. or implemented energy efficiency and renewable energy systems. However, the impact has been evaluated as non-material. – Downstream value chain: Material negative impacts of the VUB Group on climate change through indirect GHG emissions by individuals and companies financed by the VUB Group. On the other hand, the analysis revealed also material potential positive impacts of financing Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation initiatives (reduction of CO2 emissions) of our clients, via preferential financing of energy efficient buildings, energy efficiency initiatives and sustainable transition of our clients via TERRA product line, as well as financing linked to EIB and EU funds. For the purposes of determining 昀椀nancial materiality, the relevance of risks and opportunities was assessed through a dual approach, quantitative and qualitative, applied to the identi昀椀ed perimeters. A sustainability issue could be relevant from the short-, medium- or long-term perspective as de昀椀ned in line with the time horizons used in the 昀椀nancial perspective: – Short-term scenario: the reference time horizon is 1 year; – Medium-term scenario: the reference time horizon is up to 5 years; – Long-term scenario: the reference time horizon is more than 5 years. Based on the time period, internal benchmarks were taken into consideration (e.g. documentation relating to the limits of the Group's Risk Appetite Framework, business plan projections, simulations and projections used for internal purposes for risk analysis consistent with the regulatory and prudential elements to which the Group is subject) and impacts, risk and opportunities were analysed. However, the results of Double materiality analysis are not formulated for speci昀椀c time horizon expressing the urgency of all the matters. With regards to physical climate risks in its own operations, along the value chain and within the 昀椀nanced portfolio, the VUB Group has established a process for identi昀椀cation and assessment, consisting of the following key steps: – Identification of climate hazards – analysing potential climate-related physical risks, distinguishing between acute risks (e.g., floods, landslides, wildfires, wind gusts) and chronic risks (e.g., rising sea level, changes in average temperatures, changes in precipitation patterns); – Identification of support tools and climate data (hazard sectorial heatmaps, geospatial analysis, climate models and the hazard probability of occurrence and impact for each geography). Climate scenarios with high physical risk are being used. – Assessment of exposure and sensitivity for own operations – evaluating assets and operational activities to determine their level of exposure and sensitivity to identified climate hazards. This analysis considers the likelihood, potential severity, and duration of risks, incorporating the specific geographic coordinates of operational sites and high physical risk scenarios; – Value chain analysis – engaging key suppliers and partners to map physical risks across the supply chain, assessing the vulnerability of critical assets, logistics infrastructure and strategic raw materials; – Financed portfolio assessment – evaluating climate-related risks within the financed portfolio by analysing the exposure of counterparties to physical climate risks. This includes sector-specific and geographic assessments to identify vulnerabilities and potential financial impacts on lending and investment activities; – Integration into risk management systems – incorporating assessment results into the company’s risk management framework, establishing priorities and developing mitigation and adaptation strategies to minimize overall vulnerability. With reference to the loan portfolio, the identi昀椀cation of physical risks and the assessment of exposure to these risks take into account climate projections based on the NGFS (Network for Greening the Financial System) climate scenarios characterized by a high physical risk and, in particular, the Hot House World scenario. The VUB Group utilizes climate scenario analysis to assess physical risks, with a particular focus on collateral exposure to climate hazards. The analysis was conducted using hazard maps and geospatial data, aligned with NGFS (Hot House world) scenarios, to evaluate level of risk (low, medium, high, very high) of potential depreciation of residential"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 347 and commercial real estate. The impact of climate-related hazards on 昀椀nanced non-昀椀nancial corporate clients was assessed using sector-speci昀椀c heatmaps, geolocation data across the relevant time horizons according to the maturity, applying NGFS and Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) and Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) scenarios, providing insights into the potential future exposure and physical risk. To ensure a more precise risk assessment, loan portfolios were categorized based on maturity buckets (<5Y, 5-10Y, 10-20Y, >20Y) of the exposure. This approach, while distinct from the broader time horizons used in the Double Materiality Assessment (DMA), provides a more detailed perspective on risk distribution over time. With reference to physical risks of own operations the effective operational losses caused by disasters and other related events (operational risk) were considered. This includes meteorological phenomena, earthquakes, and 昀氀oods that could disrupt business continuity and cause 昀椀nancial losses. Based on the assessment performed, physical climate risks have been consistently identi昀椀ed as low or very low across all time horizons and traditional 昀椀nancial risk categories (credit, market, liquidity, and operational risk), thus reinforcing a stable risk pro昀椀le of the Group. With reference to the transition risks, the following analyses were carried out for the different reference perimeters identi昀椀ed: – Own operations: Operational risks (e.g., regulatory changes, energy transition requirements) and reputational risks related to any initiatives that may not align with Group's own sustainability commitments and climate objectives were assessed. This included evaluating potential challenges in adapting our operations to mitigate climate change impacts effectively; – Upstream value chain: Operational and reputational risks were evaluated concerning our suppliers. Specifically, the risk of engaging suppliers with insufficient or inadequate climate-related measures, such as inadequate management of greenhouse gas emissions. The potential for supply chain disruptions linked to the transition towards low-carbon alternatives were also examined; – Downstream value chain: Credit, market, and liquidity risks potentially arising from exposure to transition risks, such as changes in consumer demand, regulatory pressures, or shifts in market sentiment were assessed. The reputational risks related to Group's products and services, especially in light of evolving sustainability preferences among customers and stakeholders were also considered. Additionally, liquidity risks arising from the potential loss of institutional investors in case of failure to meet climate-related expectations were analysed, as that could affect access to capital and the Group’s financial stability. The identi昀椀ed transition events and their potential impacts on assets and business activities are as follows: – Short-term: Events such as increased pricing of GHG emissions, enhanced emissions-reporting obligations, and potential legal mandates on existing products or services. These events may lead to higher costs and changes in consumer behaviour; – Medium-term: Risks related to the failure of counterparties to define a transition plan, such as market risks and credit risks. These may affect the value of corporate bonds and the ability of counterparties to service debts, particularly if they fail to transition to a low-emission economy; – Long-term: The company may face reputational risks and potential exposure to litigation related to failure to meet climate targets or align with climate-related goals like those of the Net Zero Banking Alliance. These risks are linked to long-term exposure to regulatory changes and the transition to a low-carbon economy. The assessment of transition risks and opportunities has been primarily based on: – An analysis of real estate collateral and their EPC (Energy Performance Certificate) label, providing an overview of the energy efficiency distribution within the loan portfolio; – ESG sectoral assessment approach for Non-financial corporations (NFCs). This approach, common for all members of the ISP Group, provides a prudent, worst-case-scenario estimate of the NFCs susceptibility to a set of risk drivers, including, among others, physical, transition and environmental risk. This approach is mainly based on qualitative external sources analysis (qualitative top-down element) complemented by leveraging the granular and forward-looking results of the scenario analysis (quantitative bottom-up element). The top-down element analyses economic sectors’ vulnerability to C&E risks at large drawing on several external sources, thus leveraging on multiple perspectives in reaching a conversant evaluation. The bottom-up element leverages on climate stressed counterparty-level data, providing a more granular and forward-looking insight into the underlying vulnerabilities of the NFC portfolio. Together, these approaches help identify and qualify the risks economic sectors are exposed to; – A similar screening of individual borrowers, assessing their performance in ESG area through internally developed ISP Group ESG score. The Group identi昀椀ed several assets that need signi昀椀cant efforts to be compatible with a transition to a climate- neutral economy, especially within the 2030 milestone. These assets are mostly connected with downstream value"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 348 chain namely 昀椀nancing operations to Non-昀椀nancial corporations that did not develop transition plan nor committed to adequate GHG emission goals or loans collateralized by immovable property with low energy ef昀椀ciency. The assessment of exposure to transition events has been concluded as follows: – Credit risk related to counterparties failing to define a transition plan is currently assessed as immaterial. The likelihood of such an event is considered low; – Market risk arising from counterparties' failure to define a transition plan is also assessed as immaterial. This risk is not highly relevant within the business model of the VUB; – Liquidity risk associated with assets not aligned with sustainability objectives has been assessed as immaterial. The assessment, including the HQLA relevance analysis, indicates that such assets are unlikely to be classified as High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), meaning that their impact on overall liquidity is lower. The assessment process is expected to evolve over time to incorporate additional forward-looking methodologies for evaluating transition risks and opportunities, especially further scenario-based analysis such as NGFS or IEA (International Energy Agency) climate scenarios. The only material risk identi昀椀ed in the double materiality assessment is reputational risk arising from both transition and physical climate risks: 1. Transition risk: Failure to meet targets defined in the support of climate change mitigation (e.g., failure to meet targets under the Net Zero Banking Alliance); 2. Physical risk: Lack of focus on objectives supporting climate change adaptation, which could lead to reputational impacts related to business interruptions. This risk is classi昀椀ed as both a transition risk and a physical risk, as it is driven by evolving stakeholder expectations regarding mitigation commitments as well as the company’s response to physical climate-related challenges. A formal resilience analysis based on climate scenarios has not been conducted. However, selected stress tests were performed to assess the potential impact of ESG-related risks on credit risk. These tests are part of the 2024 ICAAP/ILAAP Adverse scenario, and focused on estimating potential effects on risk-weighted assets (RWA) and pro昀椀t/loss (P&L). The stress test methodology includes: – Corporate portfolio: Economic sectors were classified by ESG sensitivity based on an internal methodology. The probability of default (PD) was adjusted according to sector classification; – Retail mortgages: Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) were used as an indicator of transition risk, with adjustments applied to loss given default (LGD); – Flood event scenario: Potential effects of flooding were modelled for the retail portfolio, considering increased PD for affected borrowers and higher LGD for unsecured loans. The approach is based on expert judgment, and does not use climate scenario models such as NGFS or IEA. – The methodology is under development, and may be expanded in the future to incorporate additional factors. – The stress test analysis shows that the VUB Group is able to maintain a sound capital adequacy even under an adverse scenario. VUB Group recognizes the value of a comprehensive resilience analysis and intends to further develop this approach in the future, especially in relation to more detailed climate scenarios. Opportunities in relation to the transition to a low-carbon economy were identi昀椀ed, including the potential for product innovation, competitive advantage through sustainable practices, improved ef昀椀ciency through energy savings and waste reduction and improvement of brand reputation resulting from the achievement of objectives in support of climate change mitigation. Connection to climate-related assumptions in 昀椀nancial statement The company has utilized climate scenarios primarily for the identi昀椀cation and prediction of climate-related risks. Most assessed risks were determined to be immaterial, and as a result, no direct integration of climate scenario outcomes into 昀椀nancial statement assumptions has been made at this stage. However, reputational risk related to climate targets and commitments were assessed as material, but they have not yet been quanti昀椀ed or directly linked to 昀椀nancial statement assumptions. To ensure proactive risk management, the company has established limits and early warning indicators to monitor potential future developments and reassess materiality if necessary."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 349 Integration of climate-related performance in incentive schemes The VUB Group, in line with ISP Group approach, considers it essential to address and monitor climate-related issues and therefore implemented intermediary objectives in the incentive system. The ESG KPI was assigned in the 2024 target sheets to the CEO and approximately 150 managers of the VUB Group in Slovakia and the Czech Republic The characteristics of the KPI are in line with the growing attention on these issues by the Group's Customers, Shareholders, Regulators and other Stakeholders. With speci昀椀c reference to the variable remuneration of the Managing Director and CEO, climate aspects are taken into account both in the Annual Incentive System (15% weight) and in the long-term incentive plan. Speci昀椀cally, the KPIs are linked to the 昀椀nancing of clients in transition to sustainability: 1. % of new production of Sustainable Loans to Retail Customers; 2. % of new production of Corporate & SME Sustainable Loans. Finally, with reference to variable remuneration to Management – 3 bene昀椀ciaries (including the CEO, the remaining Top Management Risk Takers of the Group and the other Group Risk Takers), climate aspects are taken into account through Performance Share Plans (PSP) and recognized against the achievement of performance objectives within the composite ESG KPI. For further information please refer to standard ESRS2 – General disclosure, section Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes. Strategy for combating climate change Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Climate change represents one of the most signi昀椀cant global challenges of our time, with far-reaching impacts on the natural environment, human health, and economic prosperity. Effectively combating this existential threat requires a well-crafted, multidimensional strategy that encompasses global collaboration, technological innovation, policy reform, and community engagement. The VUB Group, recognizing the crucial role that 昀椀nancial institutions can play in this area, has developed and adopted a series of policies governing its business operations, resource procurement, 昀椀nancing and investments to address climate change mitigation, adaptation, energy ef昀椀ciency, renewable energy deployment, and transition to climate neutrality of the economy. These policies incorporate the interests of stakeholders, collected through targeted surveys and dialogues, while also considering feedback from rating agencies and 昀椀nancial regulators. In 2020, the VUB Bank, as a pioneer in the Group in Slovakia, published the Green Manifest where it declared its commitment to sustainability and environmental protection, as an integral part of its business DNA. With regards to climate change, Green Manifest declares supporting the transition to carbon neutral economy. The Bank is committed to supporting its clients by providing sustainable banking products and services while continuously enhancing internal standards and processes. It prioritizes energy ef昀椀ciency, emphasizes the use of renewable energy sources, and collaborates with suppliers who share its commitment to sustainability and engages employees by fostering a culture of environmental responsibility. Furthermore, the Bank supports the non-pro昀椀t sector through partnerships that promote environmental education, and climate change awareness in Slovakia. In this effort, VUB Bank is accompanied by its subsidiaries and strongly supported by the parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group. The cornerstone of VUB Group's environmental policy is its Code of Ethics, a binding document outlining standards and principles for managing and controlling bodies, for employees and contracted third parties in line with the commitments made by the ISP Group in relation to international initiatives: UN Global Compact, the contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, the Women's Empowerment Principles, the Net Zero Alliances as well as the PRB Principles for Responsible Banking, PRI Principles for Responsible Investment and PSI Principles for Sustainable Insurance Programs under the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). It promotes ef昀椀cient and conscious resource use, sustainable decision-making, and 昀椀ght against climate change. The Code also provides guidelines for management of indirect environmental impacts in value chain among others by promoting services and products to foster the development of a low-emission economy, also through the dissemination of renewable energy and energy ef昀椀ciency improvement. It also speci昀椀es the principles of the process of managing purchases of goods and services: – Transparency and fairness in the selection and qualification of suppliers throughout the entire supply chain, also evaluating local specificities, respect for the environment, human rights, working conditions, business ethics; – The adoption of measures and tools aimed at minimizing negative impacts and promoting awareness of ESG risks and opportunities."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 348 chain namely 昀椀nancing operations to Non-昀椀nancial corporations that did not develop transition plan nor committed to adequate GHG emission goals or loans collateralized by immovable property with low energy ef昀椀ciency. The assessment of exposure to transition events has been concluded as follows: – Credit risk related to counterparties failing to define a transition plan is currently assessed as immaterial. The likelihood of such an event is considered low; – Market risk arising from counterparties' failure to define a transition plan is also assessed as immaterial. This risk is not highly relevant within the business model of the VUB; – Liquidity risk associated with assets not aligned with sustainability objectives has been assessed as immaterial. The assessment, including the HQLA relevance analysis, indicates that such assets are unlikely to be classified as High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), meaning that their impact on overall liquidity is lower. The assessment process is expected to evolve over time to incorporate additional forward-looking methodologies for evaluating transition risks and opportunities, especially further scenario-based analysis such as NGFS or IEA (International Energy Agency) climate scenarios. The only material risk identi昀椀ed in the double materiality assessment is reputational risk arising from both transition and physical climate risks: 1. Transition risk: Failure to meet targets defined in the support of climate change mitigation (e.g., failure to meet targets under the Net Zero Banking Alliance); 2. Physical risk: Lack of focus on objectives supporting climate change adaptation, which could lead to reputational impacts related to business interruptions. This risk is classi昀椀ed as both a transition risk and a physical risk, as it is driven by evolving stakeholder expectations regarding mitigation commitments as well as the company’s response to physical climate-related challenges. A formal resilience analysis based on climate scenarios has not been conducted. However, selected stress tests were performed to assess the potential impact of ESG-related risks on credit risk. These tests are part of the 2024 ICAAP/ILAAP Adverse scenario, and focused on estimating potential effects on risk-weighted assets (RWA) and pro昀椀t/loss (P&L). The stress test methodology includes: – Corporate portfolio: Economic sectors were classified by ESG sensitivity based on an internal methodology. The probability of default (PD) was adjusted according to sector classification; – Retail mortgages: Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) were used as an indicator of transition risk, with adjustments applied to loss given default (LGD); – Flood event scenario: Potential effects of flooding were modelled for the retail portfolio, considering increased PD for affected borrowers and higher LGD for unsecured loans. The approach is based on expert judgment, and does not use climate scenario models such as NGFS or IEA. – The methodology is under development, and may be expanded in the future to incorporate additional factors. – The stress test analysis shows that the VUB Group is able to maintain a sound capital adequacy even under an adverse scenario. VUB Group recognizes the value of a comprehensive resilience analysis and intends to further develop this approach in the future, especially in relation to more detailed climate scenarios. Opportunities in relation to the transition to a low-carbon economy were identi昀椀ed, including the potential for product innovation, competitive advantage through sustainable practices, improved ef昀椀ciency through energy savings and waste reduction and improvement of brand reputation resulting from the achievement of objectives in support of climate change mitigation. Connection to climate-related assumptions in 昀椀nancial statement The company has utilized climate scenarios primarily for the identi昀椀cation and prediction of climate-related risks. Most assessed risks were determined to be immaterial, and as a result, no direct integration of climate scenario outcomes into 昀椀nancial statement assumptions has been made at this stage. However, reputational risk related to climate targets and commitments were assessed as material, but they have not yet been quanti昀椀ed or directly linked to 昀椀nancial statement assumptions. To ensure proactive risk management, the company has established limits and early warning indicators to monitor potential future developments and reassess materiality if necessary."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 349 Integration of climate-related performance in incentive schemes The VUB Group, in line with ISP Group approach, considers it essential to address and monitor climate-related issues and therefore implemented intermediary objectives in the incentive system. The ESG KPI was assigned in the 2024 target sheets to the CEO and approximately 150 managers of the VUB Group in Slovakia and the Czech Republic The characteristics of the KPI are in line with the growing attention on these issues by the Group's Customers, Shareholders, Regulators and other Stakeholders. With speci昀椀c reference to the variable remuneration of the Managing Director and CEO, climate aspects are taken into account both in the Annual Incentive System (15% weight) and in the long-term incentive plan. Speci昀椀cally, the KPIs are linked to the 昀椀nancing of clients in transition to sustainability: 1. % of new production of Sustainable Loans to Retail Customers; 2. % of new production of Corporate & SME Sustainable Loans. Finally, with reference to variable remuneration to Management – 3 bene昀椀ciaries (including the CEO, the remaining Top Management Risk Takers of the Group and the other Group Risk Takers), climate aspects are taken into account through Performance Share Plans (PSP) and recognized against the achievement of performance objectives within the composite ESG KPI. For further information please refer to standard ESRS2 – General disclosure, section Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes. Strategy for combating climate change Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Climate change represents one of the most signi昀椀cant global challenges of our time, with far-reaching impacts on the natural environment, human health, and economic prosperity. Effectively combating this existential threat requires a well-crafted, multidimensional strategy that encompasses global collaboration, technological innovation, policy reform, and community engagement. The VUB Group, recognizing the crucial role that 昀椀nancial institutions can play in this area, has developed and adopted a series of policies governing its business operations, resource procurement, 昀椀nancing and investments to address climate change mitigation, adaptation, energy ef昀椀ciency, renewable energy deployment, and transition to climate neutrality of the economy. These policies incorporate the interests of stakeholders, collected through targeted surveys and dialogues, while also considering feedback from rating agencies and 昀椀nancial regulators. In 2020, the VUB Bank, as a pioneer in the Group in Slovakia, published the Green Manifest where it declared its commitment to sustainability and environmental protection, as an integral part of its business DNA. With regards to climate change, Green Manifest declares supporting the transition to carbon neutral economy. The Bank is committed to supporting its clients by providing sustainable banking products and services while continuously enhancing internal standards and processes. It prioritizes energy ef昀椀ciency, emphasizes the use of renewable energy sources, and collaborates with suppliers who share its commitment to sustainability and engages employees by fostering a culture of environmental responsibility. Furthermore, the Bank supports the non-pro昀椀t sector through partnerships that promote environmental education, and climate change awareness in Slovakia. In this effort, VUB Bank is accompanied by its subsidiaries and strongly supported by the parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group. The cornerstone of VUB Group's environmental policy is its Code of Ethics, a binding document outlining standards and principles for managing and controlling bodies, for employees and contracted third parties in line with the commitments made by the ISP Group in relation to international initiatives: UN Global Compact, the contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, the Women's Empowerment Principles, the Net Zero Alliances as well as the PRB Principles for Responsible Banking, PRI Principles for Responsible Investment and PSI Principles for Sustainable Insurance Programs under the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). It promotes ef昀椀cient and conscious resource use, sustainable decision-making, and 昀椀ght against climate change. The Code also provides guidelines for management of indirect environmental impacts in value chain among others by promoting services and products to foster the development of a low-emission economy, also through the dissemination of renewable energy and energy ef昀椀ciency improvement. It also speci昀椀es the principles of the process of managing purchases of goods and services: – Transparency and fairness in the selection and qualification of suppliers throughout the entire supply chain, also evaluating local specificities, respect for the environment, human rights, working conditions, business ethics; – The adoption of measures and tools aimed at minimizing negative impacts and promoting awareness of ESG risks and opportunities."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 350 The document is publicly available on the Bank's website for all stakeholders (Code of ethics | VUB Bank). The implementation of the Code of Ethics has resulted in supplementary policies and procedures aimed at speci昀椀c areas of operations. For resource procurement, it is the Green Banking Procurement Rules that ensure responsible purchasing in areas such as energy, of昀椀ce materials, and sustainable renovations via identi昀椀cation of the best design solutions, products, or services from an environmental perspective throughout its life cycle, considering market availability. Key impacts considered include energy consumption and the resulting carbon dioxide emissions, waste generation, and the consumption of materials such as paper, toner, stationery, and of昀椀ce machines. The choice of supplier takes into account not only its specialization in the required product 昀椀eld and its economic and 昀椀nancial stability but also its reputational and sustainability pro昀椀le across all ESG areas. This includes assessing potential external risks, such as ongoing judicial and insolvency proceedings. In its operations, the Group adheres to the Environmental and Energy Policy of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. This policy aims to minimize environmental impacts, manage ESG risks, and ensure compliance with regulations. It emphasizes ef昀椀cient resource and energy use, careful supplier selection based on ethical, social, and environmental criteria, and the prevention of environmental harm. The Guidelines for the Governance of environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks address climate change within the broader context of environmental risks across operations, the value chain, and the 昀椀nanced portfolio. These guidelines aim to mitigate material risks associated with climate change and support the transition to a low- carbon economy. The guidelines establish a framework for managing sustainability risks, stating key principles, specifying sectors sensitive to ESG or reputational risks, de昀椀ning responsibilities, and monitoring mechanisms. The core focus is placed on limiting exposure to high-carbon industries, integrating ESG risk factors into credit policies, and promoting sustainable 昀椀nancing solutions. The effectiveness of the policy is monitored through internal limits, ESG Committee oversight, and risk appetite thresholds. The guidelines apply across the entire Group, including all banking activities, risk management processes, and 昀椀nancing operations. They cover both corporate and retail portfolios, ensuring ESG factors are assessed in client screenings and sectoral risk evaluations. Exclusions apply primarily to the coal mining and oil and gas sectors, where stricter rules aim at phasing out exposure for coil mining. The policy aligns with international sustainability frameworks, including the UN 2030 Agenda, the European Commission’s Action Plan for Sustainable Growth, the EBA Guidelines, and ECB expectations. The policy takes into account the interests of key stakeholders, including regulators, investors, and clients, by balancing 昀椀nancial stability with sustainability goals. In lending activities, sustainability-linked 昀椀nancing and advisory services are provided to help clients transition to greener business models. The policy is integrated into internal governance frameworks and embedded in the Group’s risk appetite and credit policies, which de昀椀ne VUB Group’s lending portfolio strategy for each relevant sector based on ESG aspects, among others. Relevant guidelines are communicated to stakeholders through corporate reports, regulatory disclosures, and direct engagement with clients and investors. In order to steer the development of 昀椀nanced portfolio, the Group equipped itself with Rules for the classi昀椀cation of sustainable credit products and operations. This regulation applies to Group companies and outlines various categories of environmentally sustainable activities, with internal criteria different from the European Taxonomy, in favour of both climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation. The classi昀椀cation categories of credit products and sustainable credit operations have been de昀椀ned in line with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Loan Market Association (LMA) on Green Loan, Social Loan and Sustainability-linked Loan Principles. These principles provide a shared framework at a global level, promoting standardization and transparency of practices in the sustainable 昀椀nancial sector. The Group publicly declares its environmental commitments across 昀椀nancial products, suppliers, and the overall environmental impact. The above-mentioned internal policies are accessible to respective internal stakeholders via the Group’s intranet. The main goal of the Environmental Social and Governance Committee (‘ESG Committee’), as a permanent consultative and decision-making committee of VUB Bank, is to coordinate and steer ESG related matters and to ensure the correct implementation of the ESG strategy, policies and respective ISP Group guidelines within the VUB Group. It also regularly evaluates policy effectiveness, reviews sustainability KPIs, and oversees risk mitigation measures. It is headed by the Deputy CEO who acts as ESG Manager - the top management level responsible for the implementation of the policies in sustainability area."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 351 ESG risk governance process The ‘ESG Risk Governance Guidelines’ outline the ESG risk governance process of the Group (also on climate change adaptation issues), which is divided into 5 phases: – Identification: Identification and description of ESG risk factors, also in terms of transmission channels, with particular reference to climate and environmental risks (for example, ESG risk scenarios in Stress Testing processes); – Evaluation and measurement: Determination of exposure to ESG risks (e.g. the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process); – Monitoring and control: Outpost in the continuous evolution of exposure to ESG risks (regular reporting of ESG risks to ESG Committee, monitoring of established ESG KPIs in the Risk Appetite Framework); – Mitigation: Containment of ESG risks through appropriate actions and strategies, also preventive, aimed at reducing the severity of the impact of such risks (for example, defining remedial actions in case of exceeding ESG limits in the RAF, definition of Credit Strategies for all relevant sectors); – Communication: Preparation of suitable information flows aimed at ensuring adequate transparency and knowledge of exposure to ESG risks (for example, ESG risk reporting and ESG risk disclosures, including indicators that factor in physical climate risks). In particular, with reference to the above-mentioned evaluation and measurement phase, the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process has been implemented. It aims to identify and assess ex ante the potential ESG and reputational risks (including climate and environmental risks) related to credit proposals, supplier/third-party selection connected to commercial agreements, equity investments, and extraordinary transactions. The ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process is therefore intended to represent the potential ESG and reputational risk pro昀椀les related to a speci昀椀c operation/counterparty or initiative, enabling an informed assumption of risk for the interested decision-making processes. A 昀椀rst level of clearing, carried out by the line functions, is aimed at analysing the main ESG and reputational risk factors and is performed by the structure that manages the relationship with the counterparty. In this context, credit proposals are subject to 昀椀rst-level clearing with differentiated methods based on sectoral assessments and the characteristics of the individual counterparty and operation. A second level of clearing, activated based on the results of the 昀椀rst level, is aimed at deepening and evaluating the critical issues that may have emerged from the 昀椀rst level and involves an expert analysis of these risk pro昀椀les. Generally, the outcome of the evaluation consists of an advisory opinion that includes an assessment of the main critical issues identi昀椀ed, the related mitigants, and the level of risk assigned based on proprietary metrics. In the presence of risk classes that are not consistent with the Group's risk propensity, speci昀椀c escalation mechanisms are activated. The implementation of the Equator Principles (EP) is situated within the broader framework of ESG risk assessment and management. These principles establish a framework for environmental and social risk management in the 昀椀nancing of large projects, thus strengthening the commitment to managing the impacts associated with customer business activities. The EPs are international guidelines that the Intesa Sanpaolo Group adheres to on a voluntary basis since 2007, using the latest updated version (EP IV) applicable to the 昀椀nancing of infrastructure and industrial projects that can have negative effects on people and the environment (such as energy plants, petrochemical plants, mines, infrastructure in the 昀椀eld of transport and telecommunications). These principles are based on the criteria of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank and concern, regarding to environmental issues: pollution prevention and the promotion of energy ef昀椀ciency; the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable management of natural resources. The EP apply, regardless of the industrial sector in which the customer operates, when 昀椀nancing product is used to support the development of new projects and meet speci昀椀c criteria: The project evaluation process begins with the assignment of a risk category on three levels by the Group, which involves the integrated consideration of various factors. Proportionally to the assigned risk level, the requirements to be met are de昀椀ned in terms of both documentations to be produced, and activities to be carried out by the customer. In this context, the Group incorporates environmental and social clauses into the 昀椀nancing documentation and veri昀椀es the correct implementation of the agreed clauses. Management of sustainability issues in sensitive sectors At the portfolio level and with reference to decarbonization objectives, the ESG Risk Management Guidelines also detail the ESG risk management model based on the materiality assessment of ESG risk factors with respect to the different risk families (credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, and reputational risk) and their integration into the various risk management areas. The materiality analysis (Climate/ESG Materiality Assessment) is an evaluation process that assesses the potential impacts of ESG and climate risks on the Group. This analysis is based on an organic and structured approach to risk assessment, which involves a granular breakdown of risk drivers and the integration of forward-looking elements. The aggregated analysis of the materiality of ESG risk factors at"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 352 the sector level facilitates the establishment of an enhanced risk management framework for the sectors most exposed to ESG risks. This process includes de昀椀ning sector-speci昀椀c strategies and implementing speci昀椀c measures within the Risk Appetite Framework (i.e., the RAF). These measures may consist of general criteria for limiting and excluding loans or a detailed criteria applicable to individual sensitive sectors through the application of speci昀椀c sectoral rules. GHG emissions reduction targets The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, aware of the challenge posed by climate change, has committed to contributing to the achievement of global climate goals, by pursuing the Net-Zero goal by 2050 in terms of both own emissions and loans and investments portfolios, also by setting intermediate targets by 2030. The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes and fully commits to ful昀椀lment of the targets at the Group level. Therefore, it has not set GHG emissions reduction targets or adopted transition plan at its own consolidation level. Nevertheless, the VUB Group is contributing to parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group's plan for the reduction of its ‘own’ emissions, adopted in 2022, called the ‘Own Emissions Plan’, which is compliant with Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) protocol (validation obtained in January 2025). The levers to achieve the declared decarbonization objectives are identi昀椀ed as: 1. Achievement of 100% of electricity from renewable sources purchased for its operations until 2030; 2. Reducing overall energy consumption, and especially dependence on fossil fuels for the Group's buildings; 3. Electrification of the company car fleet, both through hybrid and electric vehicles, with the consequent installation of charging stations. The Own Emissions Plan progress is periodically shared during the meetings of the ESG Committee. In this context, as of 31. December 2024, the ISP Group has already reduced emissions by 35% compared to the 2019 baseline. This reduction corresponds to 34,256 thousand tons of CO2e, and the ISP Group con昀椀rms it is on track to meet the target set for 2030. Other targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in own operations Portfolio level To achieve the objectives for reducing emissions and to accompany customers on their path towards decarbonization intermediary 2030 emission reduction targets were set on the ISP Group level, which includes the VUB Group. These targets focus on sectors identi昀椀ed based on a materiality criterion among those with the highest emission intensity as per NZBA. The VUB Group has not set targets on its own consolidated level. To support this objective, the VUB Group has identi昀椀ed several levers: – Dedicated products and incentives, including: o Access to a credit ceiling dedicated to the circular economy, aimed at customers who adopt a circular business model with innovative methods, granting them supportive conditions for access to credit. The ceiling does not follow the technical screening criteria of the European Taxonomy, having been developed before its entry into force, in close partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation; o Green financings aimed at financing projects with a significant environmental impact; o Sustainability-linked financing that provides a discount/bonus mechanism as an incentive for customers who meet predefined sustainability targets; o Advisory services to support customer decarbonization and accompany them in the utilization of proper ESG financial tools linked to their strategies and transition plans. To ensure constant progress, internal KPIs have been set in both Retail and Corporate banking Divisions and their development is being monitored regularly by ESG Committee. Actions and resources related to climate change To support its climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, the VUB Group has designed several action types: – Improvement of physical infrastructure – energy efficiency, renewable energy, and GHG avoidance in own buildings operation; – Improvement of data infrastructure; – Awareness raising and marketing support for dedicated financial products and incentives; – VUB continues in its own ‘ATLAS’ series of conferences, discussions, and panel talks focused on good practices,"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 352 the sector level facilitates the establishment of an enhanced risk management framework for the sectors most exposed to ESG risks. This process includes de昀椀ning sector-speci昀椀c strategies and implementing speci昀椀c measures within the Risk Appetite Framework (i.e., the RAF). These measures may consist of general criteria for limiting and excluding loans or a detailed criteria applicable to individual sensitive sectors through the application of speci昀椀c sectoral rules. GHG emissions reduction targets The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, aware of the challenge posed by climate change, has committed to contributing to the achievement of global climate goals, by pursuing the Net-Zero goal by 2050 in terms of both own emissions and loans and investments portfolios, also by setting intermediate targets by 2030. The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes and fully commits to ful昀椀lment of the targets at the Group level. Therefore, it has not set GHG emissions reduction targets or adopted transition plan at its own consolidation level. Nevertheless, the VUB Group is contributing to parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group's plan for the reduction of its ‘own’ emissions, adopted in 2022, called the ‘Own Emissions Plan’, which is compliant with Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) protocol (validation obtained in January 2025). The levers to achieve the declared decarbonization objectives are identi昀椀ed as: 1. Achievement of 100% of electricity from renewable sources purchased for its operations until 2030; 2. Reducing overall energy consumption, and especially dependence on fossil fuels for the Group's buildings; 3. Electrification of the company car fleet, both through hybrid and electric vehicles, with the consequent installation of charging stations. The Own Emissions Plan progress is periodically shared during the meetings of the ESG Committee. In this context, as of 31. December 2024, the ISP Group has already reduced emissions by 35% compared to the 2019 baseline. This reduction corresponds to 34,256 thousand tons of CO2e, and the ISP Group con昀椀rms it is on track to meet the target set for 2030. Other targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in own operations Portfolio level To achieve the objectives for reducing emissions and to accompany customers on their path towards decarbonization intermediary 2030 emission reduction targets were set on the ISP Group level, which includes the VUB Group. These targets focus on sectors identi昀椀ed based on a materiality criterion among those with the highest emission intensity as per NZBA. The VUB Group has not set targets on its own consolidated level. To support this objective, the VUB Group has identi昀椀ed several levers: – Dedicated products and incentives, including: o Access to a credit ceiling dedicated to the circular economy, aimed at customers who adopt a circular business model with innovative methods, granting them supportive conditions for access to credit. The ceiling does not follow the technical screening criteria of the European Taxonomy, having been developed before its entry into force, in close partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation; o Green financings aimed at financing projects with a significant environmental impact; o Sustainability-linked financing that provides a discount/bonus mechanism as an incentive for customers who meet predefined sustainability targets; o Advisory services to support customer decarbonization and accompany them in the utilization of proper ESG financial tools linked to their strategies and transition plans. To ensure constant progress, internal KPIs have been set in both Retail and Corporate banking Divisions and their development is being monitored regularly by ESG Committee. Actions and resources related to climate change To support its climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, the VUB Group has designed several action types: – Improvement of physical infrastructure – energy efficiency, renewable energy, and GHG avoidance in own buildings operation; – Improvement of data infrastructure; – Awareness raising and marketing support for dedicated financial products and incentives; – VUB continues in its own ‘ATLAS’ series of conferences, discussions, and panel talks focused on good practices,"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 353 innovation, and knowledge sharing launched in 2022; – Partnerships with professional organizations for knowledge sharing. This involves both knowledge sharing for improvement of Group's own infrastructure, practices and strategies, as well as improvement of the sustainability of the overall economy, primarily in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. The Group is active in the following areas where awareness raising, education, best practice and knowledge exchange projects and events enable mitigation and/or adaptation to climate change: – Sustainable buildings and their energy efficiency, sustainable construction and renovation; e.g. Buildings For Future, Slovak green building council; – Sustainable urban planning, climate change adaptation of cities, and green infrastructure; e.g. Institute for Passive Houses, International Climate Adaptation Institute, Manifest2020; – Circular economy, waste reduction, and sustainable procurement; e.g. Circular Slovakia, Sustainable e-shop project with VISA and Heureka; – Sustainable and biodiversity friendly agriculture and food production; e.g. Living Farm project of Environmentalist association BROZ; – Environmental education and support for innovation for children and young people, e.g. For Better Future of Earth, Lifbee Academy; – Support for relevant programs and projects of VUB Foundation. This includes 昀椀nancial support, provision of creative agency services, and covering marketing costs for projects and programs Envirogrants, and ATLAS Award to raise public awareness, motivate and foster the shift towards sustainability. Climate change actions and resources at the own operation In line with its commitment to addressing climate change, the Bank has implemented and planned a series of key actions aimed at mitigating its environmental impact and achieving medium- and long-term sustainability goals: 1. Energy Ef昀椀ciency Initiatives: o Installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of the VUB headquarters started in 2024, an additional installation is currently underway. o The Bank is progressively replacing obsolete air conditioning and electrical systems at selected sites, specifically LED re-lamping (6 premises), refurbishment of HVAC systems (20 locations), complete refurbishment of electricity consuming systems (5 branches), replacement of boiler (1 branch), refurbishment of natural gas-based heating (7 locations), replacement of windows and building envelope insulation (2 branches). ▪ A comprehensive energy efficiency study was conducted for all the Bank’s premises; ▪ A study on the deployment of LED lighting technology was conducted, with gradual implementation planned. 2. Transition to Renewable Energy: o The Bank finished a procurement process and from the next contractual cycle starting in 2025 the Group will purchase 100% renewable electric energy (Guarantees of origin) via bundled contract for own premises. 3. Fleet and Mobility Enhancements: o The company car fleet is undergoing a gradual transition to hybrid and fully electric vehicles. o Charging stations for electric vehicles are being installed at VUB premises. 4. Infrastructure Improvements: o Ongoing studies are assessing the feasibility of green roofs and green walls, renewable energy, use of sustainable cooling gases. 5. Paper and Material Usage Optimization: o The Bank has long sought and implemented strategies to reduce paper and material consumption. From 2024 onwards, all office paper is being procured exclusively from eco-friendly, sustainable sources. For main material categories there are defined criteria to minimize its negative impact. These actions are expected to contribute signi昀椀cantly to the reduction of the Group’s negative impacts in medium- term and serve as building blocks for long-term sustainability extending to 2050 Medium-term objectives include completing infrastructure upgrades and expanding the deployment of sustainable technologies. The Bank leverages its annual capital budget cycle to ensure funding for these measures while strategically allocating"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 354 resources to areas of the highest impact. Successful implementation is also contingent on access to appropriate technologies, employee expertise, and supportive regulatory frameworks. Climate change actions and resources at the portfolio level In line with the regulatory evolution on sustainability, the Group adopts a medium-long term strategy and a cross- cutting and holistic approach to ESG issues, which is based on: – The definition of a Group ESG strategy; – The integration of ESG factors into the general Risk Management framework, particularly within the Risk Appetite Framework, where a specific section is dedicated to ESG risks and climate change; – The integration of ESG factors in credit processes and in the definition of credit strategies; – A careful evaluation of ESG factors in the development of policies, products and services; – The spread of ESG risk culture throughout the corporate organization. With reference to climate change mitigation, the integration of ESG risks into the Risk Management framework takes place through various actions. In particular, the RAF integrates and translates into speci昀椀c measures what is de昀椀ned in terms of strategic guidelines, ESG/Climate Materiality Assessment and ESG Sectoral Colour Coding, identifying year by year limits, Key Risk Indicators, and speci昀椀c actions aimed at containing ESG risks, with particular reference to the sectors most exposed to such risks. – Specific limits with reference to exposure to the Coal Mining and Oil & Gas sectors, particularly for Coal mining the limit is revised annually in line with the objective of phasing out financing by 2025; – The monitoring of new disbursements broken down by energy performance classes (EPC) with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and, consequently, reducing the transition risk related to mortgage loans; – Specific Risk appetite limits on share of collateral with EPC classes F and G and with Very high physical risk in the Retail Mortgage portfolio, with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and consequently, reducing the risk of transition and physical risk related to mortgage loans. In particular, with reference to the lower energy performance classes (APE certifications) and areas with very high physical risk; – Transactions with potentially high ESG risks undergo ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, utilizing the ESG profile and score of the counterparty and considerations on the impacts that physical and transition risk drivers can have. Within the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, where the ESG pro昀椀le and score of the counterparty are used, which also includes considerations on the impacts that physical climate risk drivers might have. The actions reported are implemented as an essential part of the Group's strategy for managing climate risks and do not require speci昀椀c dedicated resources exclusively for these actions, as they are included in the general context of the Group's ESG strategy. An exact quanti昀椀cation of the reduction of emissions associated with each action at portfolio level is not feasible, due to the complex connection between the actions taken and the trend of emissions in the reference sectors of the counterparties. In 2024, the VUB Group continued its commitment to retail customers, both individual and small business, through the provision of mortgages and loans with environmental purposes. Via Green mortgages, the VUB Bank incentivizes clients with a preferential interest rate for 昀椀nancing a purchase of a property with high energy performance class (‘A’). Clients with other properties are encouraged to assess their energy ef昀椀ciency and when they provide a valid EPC, they receive a reduction of loan granting fee. In addition to offering a new mortgage the VUB Group has implemented a series of activities aimed at collecting the information on the energy performance of the properties that guarantee existing mortgages, which further raises awareness among clients and allow the Bank to precisely manage the associated transition risk. Green loan is a 昀椀nancial solution with incentive for clients who want to improve energy performance through, for example, the replacement of windows and high-yield boilers, insulation and the installation of solar and photovoltaic panels. To support sustainable transition of SME and Corporate clients, the VUB Bank introduced the TERRA product line, offering loans with preferential interest rates to support sustainability in areas of environmental, social and governance sustainability. Within the TERRA Enviro two products are offered: – GREEN S-LOAN+: Dedicated loan to support all types of corporate investments and projects capable of generating a positive environmental impact on processes, infrastructures, technologies, services and products in line with the LMA categorization (e.g., Renewable energies, Energy efficiency, Pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of natural resources, Clean transportation, Sustainable water and"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 355 wastewater management, Climate change adaptation, Eco-efficient and/or circular economy, Green buildings or Projects aimed at activities with zero CO2 emissions, such as electricity production using solar, wind, oceanic, hydroelectric technology). – ENVIRO LOAN: Dedicated loan supporting circular economy projects, including resource efficiency, sustainable sourcing, recyclability, and green innovation. For these loans, individual ESG KPIs can be set up with the client. Below is a summary of the total amount disbursed during the 2024 昀椀nancial year in the 昀椀eld environmental sustainability by business line: Business line Disbursed amount (in million EUR) Retail 599.2 Corporate 187.4 Amount disbursed in Retail Business line relates predominantly to Mortgage loan with EPC A and B. The disbursed data of the 昀椀nancings are calculated using management balances. The VUB Group supports sustainable choices of clients also in the area of investments. Please refer to the standard ESRS S4 – Consumers and end-users, section Sustainability-conscious investments by the VUB Group. Actions and resources related to supply chain To manage the impacts from value chain each vendor undergoes a quali昀椀cation process through the Supplier Portal. The evaluation of registered suppliers considers not only their economic-昀椀nancial and technical-organizational characteristics but also aspects related to business ethics, respect for human rights, workers' rights, and the environment. This evaluation is based on speci昀椀c questionnaires and/or the possession of certain certi昀椀cations (including ISO 50001 and 14001, and the adoption of an energy management system compliant with ISO 50001 standards). In 2024, completing the ESG questionnaire became mandatory as a prerequisite for participating in tenders or direct negotiations through the Supplier Portal and the ESG evaluation was incorporated into the technical assessment of the supplier’s offer in the tender evaluation."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 356 Metrics on energy consumption The goal of the VUB Group is to reduce the consumption of primary energy in its own buildings as well as in rented branches. The total energy consumption consists of electricity consumption, including that of e-vehicles, natural gas consumption in own boiler rooms, and heat/cold taken from district heating/cooling supply in both owned and rented buildings, and fuel for diesel back-up generators. Within the individual energy components, the source from which the energy is produced is assessed. Energy consumption and mix The Energy consumption and mix for the current year are described below. Energy consumption and mix (in MWh) 2024 Total energy consumption 17,304.74 Total fossil energy consumption 10,367.23 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 2,628.45 Fuel consumption from natural gas 1,184.48 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources 6,554.29 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 59.91% Consumption from nuclear sources 4,015.97 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 23.21% Total renewable energy consumption 2,921.54 Fuel consumption from renewable sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 2,921.54 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 0 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 16.88% Non-renewable energy production 0 Renewable energy production 0 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Exposure in high climate impact sectors The VUB Group doesn’t have activity and revenues from high climate impact sectors."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 353 innovation, and knowledge sharing launched in 2022; – Partnerships with professional organizations for knowledge sharing. This involves both knowledge sharing for improvement of Group's own infrastructure, practices and strategies, as well as improvement of the sustainability of the overall economy, primarily in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. The Group is active in the following areas where awareness raising, education, best practice and knowledge exchange projects and events enable mitigation and/or adaptation to climate change: – Sustainable buildings and their energy efficiency, sustainable construction and renovation; e.g. Buildings For Future, Slovak green building council; – Sustainable urban planning, climate change adaptation of cities, and green infrastructure; e.g. Institute for Passive Houses, International Climate Adaptation Institute, Manifest2020; – Circular economy, waste reduction, and sustainable procurement; e.g. Circular Slovakia, Sustainable e-shop project with VISA and Heureka; – Sustainable and biodiversity friendly agriculture and food production; e.g. Living Farm project of Environmentalist association BROZ; – Environmental education and support for innovation for children and young people, e.g. For Better Future of Earth, Lifbee Academy; – Support for relevant programs and projects of VUB Foundation. This includes 昀椀nancial support, provision of creative agency services, and covering marketing costs for projects and programs Envirogrants, and ATLAS Award to raise public awareness, motivate and foster the shift towards sustainability. Climate change actions and resources at the own operation In line with its commitment to addressing climate change, the Bank has implemented and planned a series of key actions aimed at mitigating its environmental impact and achieving medium- and long-term sustainability goals: 1. Energy Ef昀椀ciency Initiatives: o Installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of the VUB headquarters started in 2024, an additional installation is currently underway. o The Bank is progressively replacing obsolete air conditioning and electrical systems at selected sites, specifically LED re-lamping (6 premises), refurbishment of HVAC systems (20 locations), complete refurbishment of electricity consuming systems (5 branches), replacement of boiler (1 branch), refurbishment of natural gas-based heating (7 locations), replacement of windows and building envelope insulation (2 branches). ▪ A comprehensive energy efficiency study was conducted for all the Bank’s premises; ▪ A study on the deployment of LED lighting technology was conducted, with gradual implementation planned. 2. Transition to Renewable Energy: o The Bank finished a procurement process and from the next contractual cycle starting in 2025 the Group will purchase 100% renewable electric energy (Guarantees of origin) via bundled contract for own premises. 3. Fleet and Mobility Enhancements: o The company car fleet is undergoing a gradual transition to hybrid and fully electric vehicles. o Charging stations for electric vehicles are being installed at VUB premises. 4. Infrastructure Improvements: o Ongoing studies are assessing the feasibility of green roofs and green walls, renewable energy, use of sustainable cooling gases. 5. Paper and Material Usage Optimization: o The Bank has long sought and implemented strategies to reduce paper and material consumption. From 2024 onwards, all office paper is being procured exclusively from eco-friendly, sustainable sources. For main material categories there are defined criteria to minimize its negative impact. These actions are expected to contribute signi昀椀cantly to the reduction of the Group’s negative impacts in medium- term and serve as building blocks for long-term sustainability extending to 2050 Medium-term objectives include completing infrastructure upgrades and expanding the deployment of sustainable technologies. The Bank leverages its annual capital budget cycle to ensure funding for these measures while strategically allocating"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 354 resources to areas of the highest impact. Successful implementation is also contingent on access to appropriate technologies, employee expertise, and supportive regulatory frameworks. Climate change actions and resources at the portfolio level In line with the regulatory evolution on sustainability, the Group adopts a medium-long term strategy and a cross- cutting and holistic approach to ESG issues, which is based on: – The definition of a Group ESG strategy; – The integration of ESG factors into the general Risk Management framework, particularly within the Risk Appetite Framework, where a specific section is dedicated to ESG risks and climate change; – The integration of ESG factors in credit processes and in the definition of credit strategies; – A careful evaluation of ESG factors in the development of policies, products and services; – The spread of ESG risk culture throughout the corporate organization. With reference to climate change mitigation, the integration of ESG risks into the Risk Management framework takes place through various actions. In particular, the RAF integrates and translates into speci昀椀c measures what is de昀椀ned in terms of strategic guidelines, ESG/Climate Materiality Assessment and ESG Sectoral Colour Coding, identifying year by year limits, Key Risk Indicators, and speci昀椀c actions aimed at containing ESG risks, with particular reference to the sectors most exposed to such risks. – Specific limits with reference to exposure to the Coal Mining and Oil & Gas sectors, particularly for Coal mining the limit is revised annually in line with the objective of phasing out financing by 2025; – The monitoring of new disbursements broken down by energy performance classes (EPC) with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and, consequently, reducing the transition risk related to mortgage loans; – Specific Risk appetite limits on share of collateral with EPC classes F and G and with Very high physical risk in the Retail Mortgage portfolio, with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and consequently, reducing the risk of transition and physical risk related to mortgage loans. In particular, with reference to the lower energy performance classes (APE certifications) and areas with very high physical risk; – Transactions with potentially high ESG risks undergo ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, utilizing the ESG profile and score of the counterparty and considerations on the impacts that physical and transition risk drivers can have. Within the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, where the ESG pro昀椀le and score of the counterparty are used, which also includes considerations on the impacts that physical climate risk drivers might have. The actions reported are implemented as an essential part of the Group's strategy for managing climate risks and do not require speci昀椀c dedicated resources exclusively for these actions, as they are included in the general context of the Group's ESG strategy. An exact quanti昀椀cation of the reduction of emissions associated with each action at portfolio level is not feasible, due to the complex connection between the actions taken and the trend of emissions in the reference sectors of the counterparties. In 2024, the VUB Group continued its commitment to retail customers, both individual and small business, through the provision of mortgages and loans with environmental purposes. Via Green mortgages, the VUB Bank incentivizes clients with a preferential interest rate for 昀椀nancing a purchase of a property with high energy performance class (‘A’). Clients with other properties are encouraged to assess their energy ef昀椀ciency and when they provide a valid EPC, they receive a reduction of loan granting fee. In addition to offering a new mortgage the VUB Group has implemented a series of activities aimed at collecting the information on the energy performance of the properties that guarantee existing mortgages, which further raises awareness among clients and allow the Bank to precisely manage the associated transition risk. Green loan is a 昀椀nancial solution with incentive for clients who want to improve energy performance through, for example, the replacement of windows and high-yield boilers, insulation and the installation of solar and photovoltaic panels. To support sustainable transition of SME and Corporate clients, the VUB Bank introduced the TERRA product line, offering loans with preferential interest rates to support sustainability in areas of environmental, social and governance sustainability. Within the TERRA Enviro two products are offered: – GREEN S-LOAN+: Dedicated loan to support all types of corporate investments and projects capable of generating a positive environmental impact on processes, infrastructures, technologies, services and products in line with the LMA categorization (e.g., Renewable energies, Energy efficiency, Pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of natural resources, Clean transportation, Sustainable water and"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 355 wastewater management, Climate change adaptation, Eco-efficient and/or circular economy, Green buildings or Projects aimed at activities with zero CO2 emissions, such as electricity production using solar, wind, oceanic, hydroelectric technology). – ENVIRO LOAN: Dedicated loan supporting circular economy projects, including resource efficiency, sustainable sourcing, recyclability, and green innovation. For these loans, individual ESG KPIs can be set up with the client. Below is a summary of the total amount disbursed during the 2024 昀椀nancial year in the 昀椀eld environmental sustainability by business line: Business line Disbursed amount (in million EUR) Retail 599.2 Corporate 187.4 Amount disbursed in Retail Business line relates predominantly to Mortgage loan with EPC A and B. The disbursed data of the 昀椀nancings are calculated using management balances. The VUB Group supports sustainable choices of clients also in the area of investments. Please refer to the standard ESRS S4 – Consumers and end-users, section Sustainability-conscious investments by the VUB Group. Actions and resources related to supply chain To manage the impacts from value chain each vendor undergoes a quali昀椀cation process through the Supplier Portal. The evaluation of registered suppliers considers not only their economic-昀椀nancial and technical-organizational characteristics but also aspects related to business ethics, respect for human rights, workers' rights, and the environment. This evaluation is based on speci昀椀c questionnaires and/or the possession of certain certi昀椀cations (including ISO 50001 and 14001, and the adoption of an energy management system compliant with ISO 50001 standards). In 2024, completing the ESG questionnaire became mandatory as a prerequisite for participating in tenders or direct negotiations through the Supplier Portal and the ESG evaluation was incorporated into the technical assessment of the supplier’s offer in the tender evaluation."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 356 Metrics on energy consumption The goal of the VUB Group is to reduce the consumption of primary energy in its own buildings as well as in rented branches. The total energy consumption consists of electricity consumption, including that of e-vehicles, natural gas consumption in own boiler rooms, and heat/cold taken from district heating/cooling supply in both owned and rented buildings, and fuel for diesel back-up generators. Within the individual energy components, the source from which the energy is produced is assessed. Energy consumption and mix The Energy consumption and mix for the current year are described below. Energy consumption and mix (in MWh) 2024 Total energy consumption 17,304.74 Total fossil energy consumption 10,367.23 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 2,628.45 Fuel consumption from natural gas 1,184.48 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources 6,554.29 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 59.91% Consumption from nuclear sources 4,015.97 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 23.21% Total renewable energy consumption 2,921.54 Fuel consumption from renewable sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 2,921.54 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 0 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 16.88% Non-renewable energy production 0 Renewable energy production 0 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Exposure in high climate impact sectors The VUB Group doesn’t have activity and revenues from high climate impact sectors."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 357 Metrics on GHG emissions Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions As part of ISP Group, the VUB Group measures and reports the effectiveness of its climate change mitigation and adaptation policies in own operations and at portfolio level through the metrics reported below, contributing to the achievement of its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. GHG emissions (in tCO2e) 2024 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Scope 1 GHG emissions Scope 1 948.70 Percentage of Scope 1 emissions from regulated emissions trading systems - Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Scope 2 GHG emissions Scope 2 location-based 2,049.58 GHG emissions Scope 2 market-based 1,330.91 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Scope 3 GHG emissions Scope 3 3,506,887.12 Percentage of Scope 3 emissions calculated using primary data 8.9% 1. Purchased goods and services 81.21 2. Capital goods 254.26 3. Fuel and energy-related activities 704.27 4. Upstream transportation and distribution 822.67 5. Waste generated in operations 6.36 6. Business travel - 7. Employee commuting - 8. Upstream leased assets - 9. Downstream transportation - 10. Processing of sold products - 11. Use of sold products 30.49 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products - 13. Downstream leased assets 42.43 14. Franchising - 15. Investments 3,504,945.43 Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 3,509,885.40 Total GHG emissions (market- based) 3,509,166.73 The Group monitors and reports the 昀椀nanced emissions of the investment portfolio (Scope 3, category 15) also through country-speci昀椀c metrics below. Metric ton of CO2 equivalent (tCO2eq) Country split of GHG emissions from investments Slovakia Other countries 2,144,747.34 1,360,198.09 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (GHG Protocol). The emission factors are used centrally across the whole ISP Group including the VUB Group. To characterize the impacts, regional data were used, where possible, or average European/global scenarios. Country-speci昀椀c ‘residual mix’ was used for electricity consumption. The emission factors of Ecoinvent 3.5 were used and the IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied. The methodologies for collecting and calculating the data in the signi昀椀cant categories of GHG emissions are detailed below:"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 356 Metrics on energy consumption The goal of the VUB Group is to reduce the consumption of primary energy in its own buildings as well as in rented branches. The total energy consumption consists of electricity consumption, including that of e-vehicles, natural gas consumption in own boiler rooms, and heat/cold taken from district heating/cooling supply in both owned and rented buildings, and fuel for diesel back-up generators. Within the individual energy components, the source from which the energy is produced is assessed. Energy consumption and mix The Energy consumption and mix for the current year are described below. Energy consumption and mix (in MWh) 2024 Total energy consumption 17,304.74 Total fossil energy consumption 10,367.23 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 2,628.45 Fuel consumption from natural gas 1,184.48 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources 6,554.29 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 59.91% Consumption from nuclear sources 4,015.97 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 23.21% Total renewable energy consumption 2,921.54 Fuel consumption from renewable sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 2,921.54 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 0 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 16.88% Non-renewable energy production 0 Renewable energy production 0 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Exposure in high climate impact sectors The VUB Group doesn’t have activity and revenues from high climate impact sectors."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 357 Metrics on GHG emissions Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions As part of ISP Group, the VUB Group measures and reports the effectiveness of its climate change mitigation and adaptation policies in own operations and at portfolio level through the metrics reported below, contributing to the achievement of its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. GHG emissions (in tCO2e) 2024 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Scope 1 GHG emissions Scope 1 948.70 Percentage of Scope 1 emissions from regulated emissions trading systems - Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Scope 2 GHG emissions Scope 2 location-based 2,049.58 GHG emissions Scope 2 market-based 1,330.91 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Scope 3 GHG emissions Scope 3 3,506,887.12 Percentage of Scope 3 emissions calculated using primary data 8.9% 1. Purchased goods and services 81.21 2. Capital goods 254.26 3. Fuel and energy-related activities 704.27 4. Upstream transportation and distribution 822.67 5. Waste generated in operations 6.36 6. Business travel - 7. Employee commuting - 8. Upstream leased assets - 9. Downstream transportation - 10. Processing of sold products - 11. Use of sold products 30.49 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products - 13. Downstream leased assets 42.43 14. Franchising - 15. Investments 3,504,945.43 Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 3,509,885.40 Total GHG emissions (market- based) 3,509,166.73 The Group monitors and reports the 昀椀nanced emissions of the investment portfolio (Scope 3, category 15) also through country-speci昀椀c metrics below. Metric ton of CO2 equivalent (tCO2eq) Country split of GHG emissions from investments Slovakia Other countries 2,144,747.34 1,360,198.09 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (GHG Protocol). The emission factors are used centrally across the whole ISP Group including the VUB Group. To characterize the impacts, regional data were used, where possible, or average European/global scenarios. Country-speci昀椀c ‘residual mix’ was used for electricity consumption. The emission factors of Ecoinvent 3.5 were used and the IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied. The methodologies for collecting and calculating the data in the signi昀椀cant categories of GHG emissions are detailed below:"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 358 Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions include emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Group: – The natural gas used for independent heating. The calculation is based on consumption data from meter readings, and emission factors by UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change); – The fuel used for the car fleet, including diesel used in back-up electricity diesel generators. The calculation is based on GPS monitoring of distance travelled, and invoices of fuel consumed by each individual vehicle (diesel, gasoline, gasoline-hybrid vehicles), regulatory infrastructure tests and servicing protocols of emergency generators, and emission factors are sourced from ISPRA (Instituto Superiore per la Protezione e la Ricerca Ambientale); – The leaks of F-gases (fluorinated gases used as refrigerants). The calculation is based on servicing and maintenance protocols of respective equipment, and emission factors from the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). The value of leaks in year 2024 was zero. Scope 2 – Indirect emissions result from the purchased or acquired energy generated off-site and consumed by the Group: – Electricity – The calculation is based on the fossil fuel-based electricity purchased from the supplier, documented by the invoices and meter readings, and emission factors using two approaches: o Market-based. The emission factor used is the ‘2023 residual mix’ factor for Slovakia, calculated by Intesa Sanpaolo. o Location-based. The emission factor used is ‘2023 national mix’ factor for Slovakia, obtained from International Energy Agency. – Thermal energy – fossil fuels district heating for central heating system. The calculation is based on natural gas consumption data acquired from a part of the lessors. For the remaining leased premises where the consumption data are not available an average consumption value per square meter was used. Emission factor was used from UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change). Scope 3 – category 1. The acquisitions of goods and services concerned: – The paper used in office activities. The processes considered are those ranging from production to delivery to the Group. Emissions from production represent an average industry scenario, obtained thanks to the British government's conversion factors for reporting greenhouse gases. For all processes within the system boundaries, greenhouse gas emission factors were obtained from Ecoinvent 3.5. The IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied; – The use of datacentre services in the cloud. The annual Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions reported by suppliers are considered, relative to the services offered to the Group. Scope 3 – category 2. Regarding instrumental goods, the most relevant computer and electronic equipment purchased by the Group during the reference year are considered: PCs and laptops, monitors, printers, smartphones, tablets, ATMs, etc. Scope 3 – category 3. In the energy vector indicator, related to the Group's energy consumption, emissions related to the fuel supply chain, construction and operation of infrastructure, distribution and transmission losses are included. To characterize the impacts, regional data were used where possible, along with average European or global scenarios. Regarding electricity consumption, country-speci昀椀c ‘residual mix’ was used. Ecoinvent 3.5 emission factors were used, and IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied. Scope 3 – category 4. Regarding transportation and upstream distribution, emissions generated by the transportation of cash for ATM replenishment carried out by third-party companies on behalf of the Group are accounted for. To model the system, a transport with vans was assumed. Emissions include all phases of the life cycle: fuel supply chain, combustion emissions, and vehicle manufacturing. Emission factors from Ecoinvent 3.5 were used. Scope 3 – category 5. The waste-related emissions include the end-of-life treatment of special waste generated by the activities carried out by the Group. The evaluated phases include the transport of waste to treatment plants, as well as end-of-life treatment. For the remaining waste 昀氀ows sent to land昀椀lls, incineration or other treatment processes, the emission factors representative of Ecoinvent 3.5 were used. The IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied. Scope 3 – category 6. Emissions related to business travel are excluded from the signi昀椀cant emission stream. Scope 3 – category 7. Emissions due to home-to-work commuting of personnel are not calculated and are excluded. Scope 3 – category 8. Emissions related to upstream leased assets are excluded from the signi昀椀cant emissions stream. Scope 3 – category 10. Processing of sold products is excluded from the signi昀椀cant emission stream."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 359 Scope 3 – category 11. Regarding the use of banking/昀椀nancial services/products used by customers, the most relevant transactions were considered, distinguished by the channel used (internet banking/mobile banking), by type (payment/transfer) for the banks of the Group. To make the assessment, the following information was taken into consideration: average time and average electricity consumption for each operation, divided by type of device used. The operating time was estimated, while the average electricity consumption for mobile devices and PCs was derived from industry studies. The emission factors for electricity consumption are those used for the calculation of Scope 2. Scope 3 – category 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products is excluded from the signi昀椀cant emission stream. Scope 3 – category 13. The VUB Group has owned assets leased to third parties (properties classi昀椀ed as IAS 40). IAS 40 includes owned properties rented to third parties, which are not part of the Group's characteristic activity. For their accounting, speci昀椀c consumption data were used, where available, by applying the relevant emission coef昀椀cients, and in other cases, by applying intensity factors (Scope 1+2 CO2e/m2 location based) for buildings with operational control and applied to those leased to third parties, assuming these assets have similar unit emissions to those with operational control. As a result, assets held as investments in. Scope 3 – category 14. This category is excluded because the VUB Group does not operate franchises. Scope 3 – category 15. Please refer to the next chapter Financed Emissions. Overall, the percentage of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data, obtained from suppliers or other partners along the value chain, is 8.9% for all signi昀椀cant categories reported. For the 2024 昀椀nancial year, the percentage electricity purchased from renewable sources with methods other than contractual instruments used by the VUB Group with reference to GHG Scope 2 emissions was 32.55%. Financed Emissions No signi昀椀cant changes are reported regarding any effects of events and signi昀椀cant changes in circumstances (affecting GHG emissions) that have occurred between the reference date of this document and the reference dates of the entities included in the Group's value chain. Reporting boundaries for the 昀椀nanced emissions are only VUB Bank and their portfolio. Under Scope 3 category 15, emissions estimation of 昀椀nanced emissions is based on the PCAF standard. The methodology for individual calculations, along with exceptions such as unavailable data, is described below within the methodology for speci昀椀c portfolios. The calculation of 昀椀nanced emissions is based on the Bank’s activity data as of the date of the preparation of the annual report containing sustainability information, i.e., as of December 31. The Group has analysed the possibilities of disclosing the carbon footprint for assets under management under ESRS E1.44 and 51, the GHG standard and the PCAF methodology, and has not yet disclosed this part of the carbon footprint. 1. Housing loans According to the PCAF standard, this asset class includes balance sheet loans for speci昀椀c consumer purposes— speci昀椀cally for the purchase and re昀椀nancing of residential properties, including single-family homes and small multi- family housing units. Within the Bank’s portfolio, Loans to Households collateralized by residential immovable property were considered, as they account for a signi昀椀cant portion of total assets and 昀椀nanced emissions. 2. Government bonds Based on the World Development Indicators, data about GDP and CO2 emissions of the country where government bonds are assigned and the accounting price of investment in the banking book of VUB Bank were used. The 昀椀nal value of 昀椀nanced emissions for this asset class is calculated as the product of an attribution factor, expressed as the ratio of the book value of the security to the country’s GDP at purchasing power parity (PPP), and the country’s total emissions. This approach allows us to estimate the 昀椀nanced emissions associated with securities based on their proportional economic footprint within each country. 3. Exposure to non-昀椀nancial corporations Exposure from Loans and Advances, Debt securities and Equity of Non-昀椀nancial corporations within the banking book of the VUB Group were included. Emissions estimation is based on counterparty information and information on average emissions intensity by sector, in line with the methodology developed by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The share of emission data coming from company speci昀椀c reporting is also disclosed. The following table shows the Financed emission (in tCO2e) expressed as Scope 3 category 15:"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 360 tCO2e Bank ́s investments mapped to asset classes according to the PCAF PCAF asset class Bank portfolio Amount of GHG (in tCO2e) % of GHG Scope 3 calculated using primary data Mortgages Housing loans 149,271.55 National debt Government bonds 300,041.87 Business loans, Exchange-traded shares and corporate bonds NFCs 3,055,632.01 10.2% GHG emissions intensity The table below provides net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity reconciling it with the balance sheet value. In calculating the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions, following formula was applied: total GHG emissions (tCO2e)/net revenues. Metric ton of CO2 equivalent per million EUR (tCO2e/€ million) 2024 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (according to the location-based method) per net revenue 2,767.58 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (according to the market-based method) per net revenue 2,767.01 The 'net revenue‘ to calculate intensity of GHG emissions amounts to 1,268 million EUR, and the de昀椀nition of 'net revenue‘ to calculate intensity of GHG emissions was chosen in accordance with the de昀椀nition of the directive on annual accounts and consolidated accounts of banks and other 昀椀nancial institutions. Speci昀椀cally, it considered the following items of the income statement: Interest income, Fees and commissions income, Dividend income, Net trading income (only positive components), Other operating income, and Share of the pro昀椀t or loss of investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method (only positive components). Internal carbon pricing Internal Carbon Pricing is a tool through which a company de昀椀nes a monetary value for GHG emissions and integrates it (de昀椀ned, in fact, price) into investment decisions and business operations. Speci昀椀cally, the adoption of an Internal Carbon Pricing system uses market mechanisms and transfers the cost of GHG emissions to the emitter, assigning a price to carbon dioxide emissions Although VUB Group does not currently use an Internal carbon pricing scheme it contributes to the Group's ICPS as part of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group."
"ESRS E3 – Water and marine resources 365 Due to the speci昀椀city of the VUB Group's core business and following in-depth studies with the dedicated structures, no material impacts have been identi昀椀ed. With reference to the upstream and downstream value chains, the concentration of exposures and suppliers that may present critical issues with respect to the topics in question is not signi昀椀cant. The Group is active in businesses focused on 昀椀nancing customers with the speci昀椀c aim of improving the management and ef昀椀ciency of the use of water resources, but these initiatives are currently marginally relevant with respect to the overall business and therefore not signi昀椀cant for the purposes of speci昀椀c disclosure in this document."
"366 ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems Materiality assessment process on impacts, risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems As described in the chapter ESRS2 – General information, Double materiality analysis, the VUB Group has conducted the double materiality analysis, i.e. an analysis of the main relevant sustainability issues, according to a dual perspective: – The impact materiality, which with an inside-out perspective takes into account the impacts of the VUB Group connected to the VUB Group's own operations and the relevant value chain upstream and downstream for the VUB Group, both positive and negative, actual or potential; – Financial materiality, which adopts an outside-in perspective considering sustainability issues that generate: o Risks that affect or may affect the development of the VUB Group, its financial and asset situation, the economic result, the financial flows, access to financing or the cost of capital in the short, medium or long term; o Opportunities that have, or that can be predicted to have, a significant financial impact on the VUB Group in the short, medium or long term. The impacts, risks and opportunities in the ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems are identi昀椀ed by taking into account the speci昀椀cities of the VUB Group. In particular, the mapping of such impacts, risks and opportunities was carried out on the basis of the context in which the VUB Group de昀椀nes and implements its business activities and relationships, the measures put in place by the VUB Group to promote and protect biodiversity and ecosystems, including through dedicated initiatives and projects as well as an assessment of the risks related to the biodiversity aspects to which the Group could be exposed. Speci昀椀c analyses were conducted to assess the VUB Group’s dependencies and impacts in terms of biodiversity, ecosystems and related services. In particular, for the purposes of impact materiality, the assessment of the identi昀椀ed impacts was conducted through interviews with dedicated internal structures and with expert stakeholders, including experts in environmental issues. This was complemented by a detailed qualitative-quantitative analysis, carried out on the basis of the criteria required by the reference legislation (i.e. scale, scope, irremediable nature and probability). In particular, with reference to: – Own operations: The assessment of impacts was carried out on the basis of qualitative drivers such as VUB Group internal policies and corporate strategies relating to this area (for example, combating climate change, excessive land exploitation, etc.); – Upstream value chain: The assessment of impacts was carried out through the analysis of the ESG Questionnaire collected by the VUB from suppliers and the related feedback provided by them on the matter; – Downstream value chain: An analysis was carried out on the indirect impacts conveyed through the exposures on the VUB Group's portfolios, in order to take into account the VUB Group's exposure to counterparties in sectors deemed to affect biodiversity, on the status of species, as well as on the extension and conditions of ecosystems. Furthermore, the definition of investment, financing criteria and strategies for the evaluation of counterparties was taken into consideration. Since all the VUB Group's premises are located in urban, already built on areas, and the VUB Group's operations are of administrative character, it has very limited direct impact of the existing biodiversity. Similarly, the dependency of VUB's operational perimeter on the ecosystem services does not exceed the general overall dependency on the natural resources and the environment. Therefore, no material impacts were identi昀椀ed. However, in 2025 the VUB Group is enhancing its operational rules and procedures for building operation, refurbishment, reconstruction or new construction, applying the safeguards and best practices for protection and improvement of the biodiversity and ecosystems in urban areas, aiming for a positive impact. For the purposes of determining 昀椀nancial materiality, the relevance of risks and opportunities was assessed using a dual approach, quantitative and qualitative, applied to the identi昀椀ed perimeters. With reference to risks, the following analyses were conducted: – Own operations: Considering the specific nature of the VUB Group’s core business, the fact that its offices are not located in protected areas or regions with high biodiversity, and based on in-depth analyses conducted by the relevant expert departments; – Upstream value chain: The reputational risk to which the Group is potentially exposed was assessed, in the event that it uses suppliers that adopt less structured safeguards with respect to biodiversity and ecosystems (for example, adoption of practices to mitigate the risk of environmental pollution with impact on biodiversity or definition of an environmental policy);"
"ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems 367 – Downstream value chain: Credit risk and market risk potentially arising from threats to biodiversity and the balance of the reference ecosystems were mainly considered. This could also determine elements of risk from a reputational perspective. The assessment results concluded that no risks were identi昀椀ed relating to the direct or indirect impact on the loss of biodiversity, the extension and conditions of ecosystems nor within its own operations nor within its upstream value chain perimeter. The Reputational Risk to which the Group is exposed if it resorts to suppliers who adopt less structured controls with reference to biodiversity and ecosystems has been assessed and evaluated as not material. The materiality analysis conducted for the standard in question, with reference to transition and physical risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems, relies on models and metrics that are still evolving, both in terms of methodology and standardization. In this regard, the development of reference methodological standards and the availability of increasingly granular and reliable data will enable further re昀椀nement of the materiality analysis and the incorporation of additional analytical elements. After performing the double materiality analysis, over all de昀椀ned time horizons, no material impacts, risks or opportunities related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems were identi昀椀ed. The VUB Group does not own or have an operational control over any relevant speci昀椀c sites of shared biological resources and ecosystems, raw materials production or sourcing that are near biodiversity-sensitive areas. Consequently, it does not engage in activities that negatively affect these areas or that may have negative or potential negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems or affected communities. VUB Group's assets are not classi昀椀ed as shared biological resources or ecosystems and, therefore, biodiversity mitigation measures are not considered relevant."
"368 ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy Materiality assessment process on impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular economy As described in the chapter ESRS 2 – General information, Materiality assessment, the VUB Group has conducted the double materiality assessment, i.e. an analysis of the main relevant sustainability issues, according to a dual perspective: – The impact materiality, which with an inside-out perspective takes into account the impacts of the VUB Group connected to the VUB Group's own operations and the relevant value chain upstream and downstream for the VUB Group, both positive and negative, actual or potential; – Financial materiality, which adopts an outside-in perspective considering sustainability issues that generate: o Risks that affect or may affect the development of the VUB Group, its financial and asset situation, the economic result, the financial flows, access to financing or the cost of capital in the short, medium or long term; o Opportunities that have, or that can be predicted to have, a significant financial impact on the VUB Group in the short, medium or long term. The impacts, risks, and opportunities within the scope of ESRS E5 – Use of resources and circular economy are identi昀椀ed considering the speci昀椀cities of the VUB Group. The mapping of such impacts, risks, and opportunities was carried out on the basis of the context in which the Group de昀椀nes and implements its business activities and relationships (for example, Environmental Policy of the VUB Group, Group Guidelines for Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Risks), the measures put in place by the VUB Group to contribute to the implementation of recycling systems and the use of recycled/recyclable materials, the renewal of partnerships related to this theme, in addition to an assessment of the risks related to circular economy aspects to which the VUB Group may be exposed. To support the analysis, consultations were conducted with retail consumers and the public through a dedicated representative survey, measuring the importance of these topics (sorting and recycling of own waste, reducing the use of plastics, packaging goods in recycled or recyclable packaging, supporting sustainable local production, reduction of paper correspondence and documentation, offering the option of purchasing goods without packaging and receipts and invoices in electronic rather than paper form). In addition, various scienti昀椀c and professional studies, reports and publications, especially Report on the State of the Environment of Slovak Republic in 2024 and enviroportal.sk have been analysed. For the purposes of impact materiality, the assessment of the identi昀椀ed impacts was conducted through interviews with the competent internal structures of the VUB Group and with expert stakeholders, including experts in environmental issues, as well as through a detailed qualitative-quantitative analysis, carried out on the basis of the criteria required by the reference legislation (i.e. scale, scope, irremediable nature of the impact and probability). In particular, with reference to: – Own operations: The assessment of impacts was carried out on the basis of qualitative drivers such as the definition by the VUB Group of internal policies and corporate strategies relating to this area (for example, recycling systems and use of recyclable / biodegradable materials); – Upstream value chain: Assessment of impacts was carried out through the analysis of a dedicated questionnaire submitted by the VUB Group to suppliers and the feedback provided by them on the matter; – Downstream value chain: An analysis was carried out on the indirect impacts conveyed through the exposures on the Group's portfolios, in order to take into account the VUB Group's exposure to counterparties/companies operating in sectors considered to have an impact from the point of view of the circular economy and the use of resources. Furthermore, the definition of investment/financing criteria/strategies for the evaluation of counterparties was taken into consideration. Following the analysis carried out, the following impact materiality outcomes emerged: with reference to the downstream value chain, signi昀椀cant positive impacts were identi昀椀ed through the adoption of 昀椀nancing/investment strategies and the offer of products attributable to these sustainability issues. No negative indirect impacts have been identi昀椀ed as attributable to exposures to counterparties operating in sectors identi昀椀ed as relevant, such as plastic manufacturing, electronics industry, the mining and extractive industries, chemical industry, agriculture, and construction and demolition. For the purposes of determining 昀椀nancial materiality, the relevance of risks and opportunities was assessed through a dual approach, quantitative and qualitative, applied to the identi昀椀ed perimeters."
"ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 369 With reference to risks, the following analyses were conducted: – Own operations: In consideration of the specificity of the VUB Group's core business and following in-depth analyses with the dedicated structures, no risks were identified relating to the topic of circular economy and use of resources; – Upstream value chain: The reputational risk to which the VUB Group is potentially exposed was mainly assessed, in the event that it uses suppliers who adopt less structured controls with respect to the topic in question (for example, lack of definition of an environmental policy); – Downstream value chain: The credit risk and the market risk potentially deriving from threats to the circular economy and the use of resources were mainly considered. This could also determine elements of risk from a reputational perspective. From the analyses conducted, for the purposes of 昀椀nancial materiality, signi昀椀cant reputational risks relating to waste management in the production process were identi昀椀ed, for both downstream and upstream value chain. With reference to the 昀椀nancial materiality of the opportunities, analyses were conducted mainly relating to the downstream value chain, taking into account the type of business of the VUB Group and the peculiarity of the 昀椀nancial activities. Analyses and evaluations of commercial opportunities were carried out in terms of 昀椀nancing of counterparties with the aim of improving their circular economy pro昀椀les and improving the ef昀椀ciency of production processes. Additionally, the possible presence of objectives and performance indicators related to the VUB Group's Strategy was considered. In light of the 昀椀nancial materiality analysis carried out, no signi昀椀cant opportunities emerged. Policies, actions and objectives related to resource use and circular economy Policies related to resource use and circular economy The circular economy policies of the VUB Group are in line with Intesa Sanpaolo Group's strategy, focusing on resource ef昀椀ciency, waste reduction, and value creation throughout the product life cycle. The goal is to facilitate the transition of businesses and territories to an inclusive circular economy, enhancing climate change mitigation, biodiversity restoration, and pollution reduction. This approach optimizes raw material use, regenerates natural resources, and fosters technological innovation, contributing to a sustainable, equitable, and resilient economic system. These policies cover all the VUB Group's activities, emphasizing internal resource management and 昀椀nancial support for circular business models, aligning with global sustainability trends and reducing resource price volatility risks. The Code of Ethics of the VUB Group integrates the principles of circular economy through environmental protection, support for the development of the country thanks to the ecological transition and the adoption of circular economy models, as well as through responsible management of indirect environmental impacts. Furthermore, the VUB Group adopted the following internal policies related to the circular economy in various areas: – In direct relation to the European Taxonomy, the Rules for the application of the European Taxonomy from a Green Asset Ratio (GAR) perspective, approved at Intesa Sanpaolo Group level and prepared in compliance with regulatory legislation, with the aim of outlining the rules necessary for the application of the EU Taxonomy and measurement of aligned economic activities with the fourth of the six environmental objectives set out in European legislation, namely ‘Transition to a circular economy’; – The Rules for the classification of sustainable credit products and lending transactions, which identifies a specific category in the field of environmental sustainability called ‘Ecological efficiency and circular economy’ assigned on the basis of the consistency of the credit transaction to a specific framework of five Circular Economy criteria, defined in collaboration with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF); – The ESG Scoring Rules outline how Intesa Sanpaolo Group and VUB Group evaluate the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance of its corporate clients, including SMEs that are often excluded from market ESG ratings. The ESG Score is used in key banking processes, such as: o Credit Risk Appetite Framework – defines the Bank’s willingness to take on risk for different customer categories; o Credit Strategies Framework – guides credit portfolio growth to balance risk and return over time. The ESG Score is a comprehensive rating based on multiple factors, including a speci昀椀c focus on the circular economy. – The Rules of operations, governing the waste hierarchy (prevention, preparing for re-use, recycling, other recovery, disposal), waste avoidance, minimization, separate collection and ways of disposal;"
"ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems 367 – Downstream value chain: Credit risk and market risk potentially arising from threats to biodiversity and the balance of the reference ecosystems were mainly considered. This could also determine elements of risk from a reputational perspective. The assessment results concluded that no risks were identi昀椀ed relating to the direct or indirect impact on the loss of biodiversity, the extension and conditions of ecosystems nor within its own operations nor within its upstream value chain perimeter. The Reputational Risk to which the Group is exposed if it resorts to suppliers who adopt less structured controls with reference to biodiversity and ecosystems has been assessed and evaluated as not material. The materiality analysis conducted for the standard in question, with reference to transition and physical risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems, relies on models and metrics that are still evolving, both in terms of methodology and standardization. In this regard, the development of reference methodological standards and the availability of increasingly granular and reliable data will enable further re昀椀nement of the materiality analysis and the incorporation of additional analytical elements. After performing the double materiality analysis, over all de昀椀ned time horizons, no material impacts, risks or opportunities related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems were identi昀椀ed. The VUB Group does not own or have an operational control over any relevant speci昀椀c sites of shared biological resources and ecosystems, raw materials production or sourcing that are near biodiversity-sensitive areas. Consequently, it does not engage in activities that negatively affect these areas or that may have negative or potential negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems or affected communities. VUB Group's assets are not classi昀椀ed as shared biological resources or ecosystems and, therefore, biodiversity mitigation measures are not considered relevant."
"368 ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy Materiality assessment process on impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular economy As described in the chapter ESRS 2 – General information, Materiality assessment, the VUB Group has conducted the double materiality assessment, i.e. an analysis of the main relevant sustainability issues, according to a dual perspective: – The impact materiality, which with an inside-out perspective takes into account the impacts of the VUB Group connected to the VUB Group's own operations and the relevant value chain upstream and downstream for the VUB Group, both positive and negative, actual or potential; – Financial materiality, which adopts an outside-in perspective considering sustainability issues that generate: o Risks that affect or may affect the development of the VUB Group, its financial and asset situation, the economic result, the financial flows, access to financing or the cost of capital in the short, medium or long term; o Opportunities that have, or that can be predicted to have, a significant financial impact on the VUB Group in the short, medium or long term. The impacts, risks, and opportunities within the scope of ESRS E5 – Use of resources and circular economy are identi昀椀ed considering the speci昀椀cities of the VUB Group. The mapping of such impacts, risks, and opportunities was carried out on the basis of the context in which the Group de昀椀nes and implements its business activities and relationships (for example, Environmental Policy of the VUB Group, Group Guidelines for Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Risks), the measures put in place by the VUB Group to contribute to the implementation of recycling systems and the use of recycled/recyclable materials, the renewal of partnerships related to this theme, in addition to an assessment of the risks related to circular economy aspects to which the VUB Group may be exposed. To support the analysis, consultations were conducted with retail consumers and the public through a dedicated representative survey, measuring the importance of these topics (sorting and recycling of own waste, reducing the use of plastics, packaging goods in recycled or recyclable packaging, supporting sustainable local production, reduction of paper correspondence and documentation, offering the option of purchasing goods without packaging and receipts and invoices in electronic rather than paper form). In addition, various scienti昀椀c and professional studies, reports and publications, especially Report on the State of the Environment of Slovak Republic in 2024 and enviroportal.sk have been analysed. For the purposes of impact materiality, the assessment of the identi昀椀ed impacts was conducted through interviews with the competent internal structures of the VUB Group and with expert stakeholders, including experts in environmental issues, as well as through a detailed qualitative-quantitative analysis, carried out on the basis of the criteria required by the reference legislation (i.e. scale, scope, irremediable nature of the impact and probability). In particular, with reference to: – Own operations: The assessment of impacts was carried out on the basis of qualitative drivers such as the definition by the VUB Group of internal policies and corporate strategies relating to this area (for example, recycling systems and use of recyclable / biodegradable materials); – Upstream value chain: Assessment of impacts was carried out through the analysis of a dedicated questionnaire submitted by the VUB Group to suppliers and the feedback provided by them on the matter; – Downstream value chain: An analysis was carried out on the indirect impacts conveyed through the exposures on the Group's portfolios, in order to take into account the VUB Group's exposure to counterparties/companies operating in sectors considered to have an impact from the point of view of the circular economy and the use of resources. Furthermore, the definition of investment/financing criteria/strategies for the evaluation of counterparties was taken into consideration. Following the analysis carried out, the following impact materiality outcomes emerged: with reference to the downstream value chain, signi昀椀cant positive impacts were identi昀椀ed through the adoption of 昀椀nancing/investment strategies and the offer of products attributable to these sustainability issues. No negative indirect impacts have been identi昀椀ed as attributable to exposures to counterparties operating in sectors identi昀椀ed as relevant, such as plastic manufacturing, electronics industry, the mining and extractive industries, chemical industry, agriculture, and construction and demolition. For the purposes of determining 昀椀nancial materiality, the relevance of risks and opportunities was assessed through a dual approach, quantitative and qualitative, applied to the identi昀椀ed perimeters."
"ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 369 With reference to risks, the following analyses were conducted: – Own operations: In consideration of the specificity of the VUB Group's core business and following in-depth analyses with the dedicated structures, no risks were identified relating to the topic of circular economy and use of resources; – Upstream value chain: The reputational risk to which the VUB Group is potentially exposed was mainly assessed, in the event that it uses suppliers who adopt less structured controls with respect to the topic in question (for example, lack of definition of an environmental policy); – Downstream value chain: The credit risk and the market risk potentially deriving from threats to the circular economy and the use of resources were mainly considered. This could also determine elements of risk from a reputational perspective. From the analyses conducted, for the purposes of 昀椀nancial materiality, signi昀椀cant reputational risks relating to waste management in the production process were identi昀椀ed, for both downstream and upstream value chain. With reference to the 昀椀nancial materiality of the opportunities, analyses were conducted mainly relating to the downstream value chain, taking into account the type of business of the VUB Group and the peculiarity of the 昀椀nancial activities. Analyses and evaluations of commercial opportunities were carried out in terms of 昀椀nancing of counterparties with the aim of improving their circular economy pro昀椀les and improving the ef昀椀ciency of production processes. Additionally, the possible presence of objectives and performance indicators related to the VUB Group's Strategy was considered. In light of the 昀椀nancial materiality analysis carried out, no signi昀椀cant opportunities emerged. Policies, actions and objectives related to resource use and circular economy Policies related to resource use and circular economy The circular economy policies of the VUB Group are in line with Intesa Sanpaolo Group's strategy, focusing on resource ef昀椀ciency, waste reduction, and value creation throughout the product life cycle. The goal is to facilitate the transition of businesses and territories to an inclusive circular economy, enhancing climate change mitigation, biodiversity restoration, and pollution reduction. This approach optimizes raw material use, regenerates natural resources, and fosters technological innovation, contributing to a sustainable, equitable, and resilient economic system. These policies cover all the VUB Group's activities, emphasizing internal resource management and 昀椀nancial support for circular business models, aligning with global sustainability trends and reducing resource price volatility risks. The Code of Ethics of the VUB Group integrates the principles of circular economy through environmental protection, support for the development of the country thanks to the ecological transition and the adoption of circular economy models, as well as through responsible management of indirect environmental impacts. Furthermore, the VUB Group adopted the following internal policies related to the circular economy in various areas: – In direct relation to the European Taxonomy, the Rules for the application of the European Taxonomy from a Green Asset Ratio (GAR) perspective, approved at Intesa Sanpaolo Group level and prepared in compliance with regulatory legislation, with the aim of outlining the rules necessary for the application of the EU Taxonomy and measurement of aligned economic activities with the fourth of the six environmental objectives set out in European legislation, namely ‘Transition to a circular economy’; – The Rules for the classification of sustainable credit products and lending transactions, which identifies a specific category in the field of environmental sustainability called ‘Ecological efficiency and circular economy’ assigned on the basis of the consistency of the credit transaction to a specific framework of five Circular Economy criteria, defined in collaboration with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF); – The ESG Scoring Rules outline how Intesa Sanpaolo Group and VUB Group evaluate the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance of its corporate clients, including SMEs that are often excluded from market ESG ratings. The ESG Score is used in key banking processes, such as: o Credit Risk Appetite Framework – defines the Bank’s willingness to take on risk for different customer categories; o Credit Strategies Framework – guides credit portfolio growth to balance risk and return over time. The ESG Score is a comprehensive rating based on multiple factors, including a speci昀椀c focus on the circular economy. – The Rules of operations, governing the waste hierarchy (prevention, preparing for re-use, recycling, other recovery, disposal), waste avoidance, minimization, separate collection and ways of disposal;"
"ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 370 – The Green Banking Procurement Rules, addressing transitioning away from extraction of virgin resources, including increases in use of secondary (recycled) resources, sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources is the internal rules for green procurement aiming to pursue sustainability objectives, and identifying the best design solution, product or service, taking market availability into account. The Policies are available to relevant internal and external stakeholders through corporate communication channels, mainly via the Bank’s intranet and bilateral communication with the clients and suppliers. The VUB Group, as a part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, integrates the principles of circular economy into its policies within the credit process, based on speci昀椀c circular economy criteria established by parent company in collaboration with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, which relate to the circular framework. In this context, Small and Medium Enterprises Department of the VUB Bank, in cooperation with the relevant parent company structures, is responsible for expressing a technical assessment of the level of circularity and the level of eligibility for 昀椀nancing of the initiatives proposed by client companies. Speci昀椀cally, the eligibility criteria of the internal circular framework include: – Solutions that extend the useful life of the product or the use cycles of goods and materials (circular design activities; application of modular design; implementation of reverse logistics programs; repair and regeneration or reconditioning of products; use of product-as-service, pay-per-use and/or sharing economy models); – Procurement of secondary or sustainably sourced renewable resources and/or recycled material (including the use of renewable energy for self-consumption); – Solutions that significantly increase the efficiency of resource consumption, within the company or along its value chain (application of industrial symbiosis principles and creation of an integrated value chain that transforms waste into production inputs; implementation of cycle closure models and/or application of eco- design and systemic design principles; implementation of processes based on natural principles for the capture and storage of CO2 and/or the capture and use of CO2, to support the achievement of decarbonization and net- zero impact objectives); – Products that are totally reusable, recyclable or compostable, inserted in an efficient context of collection, separation and recovery after use; – Innovative technologies and activities that enable circular economy models (e.g. Internet of Things solutions for the implementation of traceability systems, reverse logistics and/or predictive maintenance; Big Data, Artificial Intelligence and Cloud Computing in order to dematerialize services and develop markets for raw and/or secondary materials; – Regenerative agriculture practices and/or hydroponic/aeroponic/precision agriculture technologies, to improve soil health, increase biodiversity, produce food close to the place of consumption and grow in unfavourable areas). It should be noted that at the moment, the internal framework does not appear to be completely superimposable on the criteria of the European Taxonomy on the Circular Economy and therefore the 昀椀nancing granted with this framework is not considered ’aligned’ with the criteria of the taxonomy for the purposes of calculating the Green Asset Ratio. Furthermore, in 2020 the VUB Bank has published the Green Manifest, which represents a pillar and inspiration for VUB Group's sustainable policies and strategies. In the Green Manifest, the VUB Group declared objective to support clients by offering banking products and services that promote sustainability, including 昀椀nancing for individuals and businesses focused on ecological innovations and circular economy initiatives. In addition to guaranteeing full and total compliance with legislative provisions for the protection of the environment, the VUB Group aims to identify innovative and effective solutions in this 昀椀eld, to apply the best environmental standards and to promote and develop the concept of environmental responsibility, with a commitment to translating the international principles to which the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Bank Group has adhered, particularly the UNEP Financial Institutions Declaration and the Global Compact of the United Nations, into concrete actions. The VUB Group is also open to dialogue and discussion with those stakeholders who represent the ’voice’ of environmental concerns and focus on energy consumption. The ESG Manager (Deputy CEO of VUB Bank), is responsible for overseeing and implementing sustainability policies, including policies referring to resources use and circular economy. The VUB Group guarantees transparency towards stakeholders, making the main policies available through the company's communication channels. Documents containing sensitive, strategic, or industrial information remain con昀椀dential."
"ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 371 Objectives related to resource use and circular economy The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, has con昀椀rmed its commitment to the circular economy by promoting the dissemination of this model, also availing itself of the support of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, the main supporter of the transition towards the circular economy. The Intesa Sanpaolo Group has been a Strategic Partner of the Foundation since 2015 and has collaborated with it for several years. The transition towards a circular economy is also pursued thanks to the contribution of the Intesa Sanpaolo Innovation Centre (ISPIC), an Intesa Sanpaolo Group company dedicated to frontier innovation and a centre of expertise in the circular economy, although no speci昀椀c quantitative objectives have been de昀椀ned. However, as detailed in the following paragraph, the VUB Group has highlighted a strong commitment to promoting circular economy practices, considered an integral part of the sustainability strategy. Actions related to resource use and circular economy As part of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group's 2022-2025 Business Plan, an additional EUR 8 billion credit plafond has been allocated to support businesses transitioning to a circular economy. This initiative renews and expands upon the previous commitment from the 2018-2021 Business Plan, highlighting the long-lasting and constant commitment to these issues. The VUB Group's transition to a circular economy is further supported through cooperation with the Intesa Sanpaolo Innovation Centre (ISPIC). VUB and ISPIC collaborate on identi昀椀cation of Slovak innovative companies in the area of circular economy and sustainability in order to provide them 昀椀nancial and non-昀椀nancial support and networking. The VUB Group supports circular economy practices by providing incentivized 昀椀nancing through ’VUB ENVIRO loan’ aimed at 昀椀nancing of projects that support the circular economy. The loan is 昀椀nanced by above mentioned credit plafond (CE and Green plafond) created by Intesa Sanpaolo through which corporate clients, including local governments, can get an investment loan at a preferential interest rate if their project meets these criteria: – Solutions that extend product life; – Utilization of renewable or recycled sources; – Increase in efficiency and effectiveness of resource consumption; – Optimisation of efficiency and effectiveness of resource consumption; – Products that can be completely recycled or composted; – Innovative technologies that enable circular business models. The VUB Group is dedicated to promoting and supporting the circular economy through speci昀椀c awareness-raising initiatives (ATLAS Talks), partnerships (Circular Slovakia), and business cooperations (Sustainable E-shop with VISA and Heureka.sk). A project Sustainable E-shop (Udržateľný e-shop) was launched in 2023 in collaboration with Heureka and Visa to help e-shops operate sustainably and reduce their overall environmental footprint. E-shops are encouraged to adopt circular practices such as zero waste packaging, climate-neutral delivery, supporting local suppliers, and thorough recycling of all waste. E-Shops can earn a sustainability label on Heureka.sk by passing questionnaire inspection designed in line with ESG principles by the Association for Social Responsibility and reviewed by the Institute of Circular Economy in Slovakia. The project Sustainable E-shop (Udržateľný e-shop) also helps consumers make more informed and conscious purchasing decisions by highlighting sustainable e-shops. The action culminated in the ’Shop of the Year’ competition, where the ’Sustainable E-shop Award’ was introduced. For more details, visit www.udrzatelnyeshop.sk. The VUB Group promotes the circular economy by organizing the VUB Atlas Fórum, focusing on 昀椀nancing green projects, ESG strategies, and sustainable development. The forum discusses current trends, legislative challenges, and the role of banks and investors in supporting ecological initiatives. Additionally, the Bank became an implementation partner of Slovakia's 昀椀rst Circular Summit, highlighting the potential of the circular economy for micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises, emphasizing the ecological and economic bene昀椀ts of ef昀椀cient resource management. To promote and disseminate the circular economy paradigm, online sessions were organized throughout the year dedicated to the relationship managers of the Bank, with the aim of supporting customers in the transition process towards a sustainable and circular economy, also through the sharing of best practices at VUB Group level. The efforts of VUB Group in its own operation not only promote circular economy but also foster a culture of sustainability among its stakeholders. Forums and summits organized by the VUB Group facilitate knowledge sharing and highlight economic bene昀椀ts of the circular economy, sharing sustainable practices in both the upstream and downstream value chain."
