"2 SBM-3)” ESRS E1 Climate change Energy Risk The energy-related risk includes the risk that renewable and low carbon energy (e.g. SAF, hydrogen) may not be available in sufficient quantities in the necessary time frames. This could lead to less air travel and lower demand for aircraft or for future aircraft programmes if not suited to available energy sources, which could negatively affect financial performance. Own Operations, Downstream (Use of Products) 6.2.2.2 ​Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) In line with the Company’s purpose, “pioneering sustainable aerospace for a safe and united world”, and its aim to lead the transition of the air transport sector towards the goal set by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to reach ‘net zero carbon emissions by 2050’, the Company’s foremost ambition is to play a leading role in the decarbonisation of the aviation sector. This includes developing technologies for the next generations of commercial aircraft, and the ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. Based on the International Energy Agency (IEA) remaining global carbon budget and the share it allocates to air transport, air transport can grow at up to a certain level and meet the Paris Agreement objectives. This relies in part on technological developments to improve the fuel efficiency of air transport, in which the Company and its suppliers have a role to play. This approach also echoes “net-zero carbon emissions by 2050” ambitions from international sectoral bodies such as the ATAG, as well as the UN specialised civil aviation body, ICAO. This is consistent with the Company’s near-term target setting, covering all three scopes of emissions, and with its core product policy that focuses on developing and delivering more efficient aircraft while engaging with the energy ecosystem. The Company has set combined near-term targets to reduce its GHG emissions (please refer to “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)” for a detailed description) that are validated by the SBTi as being science-based and aligned with limiting global warming to 1.5°C for Scopes 1 and 2 and with well-below 2°C for Scope 3 relating to the use of its commercial aircraft in service (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products (Cat 11)). This is in accordance with SBTi's criteria and recommendations for near-term targets. Share of Company's Commercial business segment Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions Unit In overall Commercial business segment emissions (all scopes) % >95% In overall Company emissions (all scopes) % >90% The Company's Scope 3 Use of Sold Products CO2 intensity projections (CO2/RPK) are related to the Company's delivered commercial aircraft in a given year (2015/2035) over the entire life of service. To achieve its GHG emission targets, the Company has developed a transition plan of climate mitigation actions. The plan is structured into decarbonisation levers and sub-levers, which cover innovation in the Company’s product and service portfolio, its own operations, and in the Company’s value chain. A diverse range of factors of different climate scenarios have been considered to detect relevant environmental, societal, technology, market and policy-related developments and determine decarbonisation levers. For more details on the usage of scenarios, please refer to the “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)” hereafter. Key actions within each decarbonisation lever are detailed in the section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. The integration of the decarbonisation levers across all of the Company’s business activities, coupled with the focus on enhancing efficiency in its products, translates the objectives of the transition plan into the Company’s business model and strategy. The potential of technological levers to support the compatibility of the Company's business model with the transition to a sustainable economy and with the limiting of global warming to 1.5°C in line with the Paris Agreement and the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 are based on its experience and expertise in the field of commercial aviation in collaboration with industrial partners such as engine manufacturers. Energy and SAF related levers are informed by the sector's work on the topic as well as elements drawn from IEA scenarios and regulatory frameworks around the world. The transition plan has been approved by the Company’s Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Regular updates on the progress of this plan are presented to the Board’s ECSC. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 165"
"The Company has defined the following decarbonisation levers in order to ensure that its business model and strategy remain compatible with the transition to a sustainable economy (for more details, see “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”): Decarbonisation lever #1 - Energy efficiency (Scopes 1&2). This decarbonisation lever focuses on increasing building (stationary) energy efficiency and mobile energy efficiency. Decarbonisation lever #2 - Renewable energy (Scopes 1&2). This decarbonisation lever focuses on switching to renewable energy through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) (stationary), developing local site renewable energy generation (stationary), and uptake of SAF in its internal operations - logistics and flight tests - (mobile). Decarbonisation lever #3 - Technology improvement introduction (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on the continuous improvement of the latest generation aircraft as well as developing next generation aircraft that are more fuel efficient than current models. Decarbonisation lever #4 - SAF uptake (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on fostering the development of the SAF ecosystem, contributing to the setting of industry standards for fuels, and developing aircraft that are 100% SAF capable. Decarbonisation lever #5 - Operations improvement (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on developing the Commercial Aircraft portfolio of services aimed at supporting customers in reducing emissions arising from the usage of commercial aircraft, in collaboration with relevant actors in the air transport sector (e.g. Air Traffic Management). The last three decarbonisation levers refer to the Company’s Scope 3 use of sold products. They imply a close collaboration with many players in the aviation and energy sectors and are consistent with the aviation sector's long-term aspirational decarbonisation goal of reaching “net-zero carbon emissions” by 2050, as illustrated on the following chart. In October 2022, the aspirational objective of “net zero carbon emissions” in 2050 for international civil aviation operations was adopted by a vast majority of ICAO member states. This political commitment paves the way for the transformation of the aviation sector, ensuring a level playing field at international level and it will accelerate the development of mitigation measures such as fleet renewal, aircraft and engine technologies, alternative energy carriers such as SAF or green hydrogen, and the enhancements of the operational practices and air traffic management. The Company fully supports this international long-term aspirational goal. The Company's activities are not excluded by the EU’s Paris-aligned benchmark framework. Investing in the future The Company’s total Research and Development budget (see table below) is mainly split between - but not limited to - investments in incremental developments of the Company’s current product portfolio which is required to maintain its competitiveness, including from a fuel / CO2 efficiency perspective, as well as investment in the development of breakthrough technologies (e.g. hydrogen based systems, electric machines, energy storage and distribution) that are required for future products. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 166"
"Key figures Unit 2024 Research and development spent Bn € 3.250 Total OpEx (R&D) meeting EU Taxonomy technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation objective (also referred to as “Alignment assessment - conditional use of substances"" in section “– 6.2.7.3”) Bn € 1.440 Of which, reported as aligned (OpEx) in the EU Taxonomy report Bn € 0 Total CapEx meeting EU Taxonomy technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation objective (also referred to as “Alignment assessment - conditional use of substances"" in section “– 6.2.7.3”) Bn € 1.472 Of which, reported as aligned (CapEx) in the EU Taxonomy report Bn € 0 See “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)” EU Taxonomy. See “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)” The Commercial Aircraft business of the Company is covered by the EU Taxonomy under the activity “3.21 Manufacturing of Aircraft” of the environmental target of climate change mitigation (see “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)”). The Company has not utilised the instrument of CapEx/OpEx plans to align its economic activities with the technical screening criteria. The “Manufacturing of Aircraft” criteria includes a transition period until January 1st, 2028, after which alignment will depend on the clarification by the sector and relevant certification agencies for a fuel standard of “100% SAF” specifications and the Company's ability to certify its commercial aircraft products accordingly. As such, the Company is not able to anticipate the evolutions of the alignment of its economic activities in future years. Locked-in GHG emissions Locked-in GHG emissions - Products. For products (AR.3.(b)), the locked-in GHG emissions are considered equal to Scope 3 - Category 11, Use of sold products for the current year and future Scope 3 emissions of aircraft currently in the order book. Please refer to section “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”. Locked-in GHG emissions - Assets. Emissions from all key assets are tracked by the Company's environmental reporting. Future emissions are calculated based on local energy network assumptions and taking into account the decarbonisation levers (as described above) and the impact of industrial production evolution. Locked-in GHG emissions for these assets are calculated as the sum of yearly residual emissions until 2030, with further efforts being required for evaluating the locked-in GHG emissions until 2050. Locked-in emissions were taken into account when GHG emission reduction targets were set. For more details on how the Company plans to manage its GHG-intensive and energy intensive assets and products, refer to the “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” and “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. Tracking progress and performance Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value 2023 value YoY change 2024 vs. baseline Company (SBTi approved) ktCO2e 2030 467 -63% 2015 1,262 614 675 -9% -51% “TCO scope” (1) ktCO2e 2024 581 -2% 2023 592 524 592 -11% -11% Assumptions and (1): see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” Scopes 1&2 GHG emissions have decreased, exceeding the yearly target (see table), primarily due to five factors: a production adjustment during the year, clement weather conditions especially during winter, emission factor updates as well as savings from the increased usage of SAF and biofuels in own operations and the increased purchase of renewable electricity. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 167"
"Scope 3 GHG intensity Commercial aircraft Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value 2023 value YoY change 2024 vs. baseline Intensity SBTi approved target gCO2e/ km.pax 2035 48.0 -46% 2015 88.8 61.1 62.9 -3% -31% Number of delivered aircraft No. 766 735 4% Of which, incl. in scope 3 commercial aircraft No. 764 732 Scope: Company's commercial aircraft Assumptions: see “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” Since 2015, the improvement of commercial aircraft Scope 3 efficiency - measured through this metric - was largely supported by significant investments into new aircraft technology and designs, as well as by projected SAF uptake impact to a lower extent. Given the variable time horizons of each of the five decarbonisation pathways presented above, it is expected that the forecasted increase of SAF used by airlines in the coming decades will have a decisive impact for achieving this target by 2035. In order to be able to check how actual global penetration of SAF is consistent with its target related assumptions, the Company is developing the means to monitor actual availability and use of SAF and the resulting impact on aircraft emissions. The Company's initial approach to develop a tool that has proven insufficient and the Company is now considering alternative options. One such option is to rely on aviation industry recognised metrics being developed. For instance, IATA is maturing its analytical capability to monitor SAF consumption through direct reporting from airlines. Key figure Unit 2024 Est. annual SAF production, as per IATA report * tonnes 1 million * “Fact Sheet - Sustainable Aviation Fuels” dated Dec 9th 2024 available on IATA website For more information on the progress in implementing the transition plan, refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. 6.2.2.3 ​Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Following the TCFD recommendations, the Company has defined a range of temperature scenarios (1.5°C, well-below 2°C and >3°C) to represent different climate realities based upon the global scenarios of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (""IPCC"" - Assessment Report 6 (""AR6"")) and the International Energy Agency (""IEA""). The scenario analysis is used to identify financial and operational risks and opportunities related to climate change that may begin to impact the Company in the short-term, medium-term and long-term so that the Company can work to increase the resilience of its assets and Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 168"
"operations in order to mitigate and adapt to climate change. The short-term time horizon (“ST”, considering the current year and up to two years thereafter) focuses on the ongoing production and ramp-up plans to increase production to 75 single-aisle aircraft per month by 2027 whilst the mid-term time horizon (“MT”, around 2035) relates to the assets and activities linked to the transition period between the current and next generation of commercial aircraft products. The long-term time horizon (“LT”, around 2050) is used to anticipate future climate-related risks during the production of the next generation of products. The Company uses Shared Socio-economic Pathways (SSPs) that were developed for the latest Assessment Report (AR6) of the IPCC. SSPs are standard scenarios in climate science that describe coherent and internally consistent socio-economic futures based on drivers like population, economic growth, and technological advancement. Physical risks The Company has conducted an analysis of climate-related physical risks, considering all 28 physical climate risks or hazards indicated by the European Taxonomy for sustainable activities and the CSRD (ESRS E1). Some climate-related hazards are deemed low priority considering the sector or the geographical coverage of the Company's activities and are therefore excluded from the analysis. Nevertheless, the Company is continuously reviewing its exposure to these hazards and their prioritisation. The analysis takes into account the Company's assets and business activities over the previously described medium-term and long-term time horizons as the most relevant for this assessment, comparing projected evolutions compared to a baseline defined as the average of values between 1985 and 2014. The short term time horizon was considered not relevant for this assessment as short term climate related hazards are typically covered through business continuity plans on site level (mostly EHS related) and insurance policies. The most relevant scenario for these projections is the ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"", based on IPCC Scenarios AR6 SSP3-7.0 / SSP5-8.5 and ensures that physical climate risk analysis results align with the latest state of climate science. This scenario represents the highest emissions among all SSPs and, according to the best estimate of the IPCC, leads to global warming of 4.4°C by the end of the century. The physical risks in this scenario are the most pronounced, making it a ""worst-case"" scenario for physical hazards. It assumes current levels of CO2 emissions and greenhouse gases will almost double by 2050. The world economy grows rapidly, but this growth is driven by fossil fuel exploitation and very energy-intensive lifestyles. The SSP5-8.5 scenario describes a future characterised by continued industrialisation and economic growth, with global markets becoming increasingly integrated and global mobility increasing. The total final energy demand rises steeply, and no additional climate policy measures are assumed. The scenario particularly explores the limits to adaptation and the climate physical risks that may impact the Company’s operations and its value chain. Projections of relevant climate parameters, such as temperature, wind speed, and precipitation are used to identify climate hazards. Each hazard is clearly defined within the risk analysis and supplemented with climate parameters used to identify the hazard. Some hazards, such as “changing wind patterns” and cyclones, are assessed based on areas where they are known to occur (local identification) rather than climate projections as no scientific consensus has been reached regarding their evolution in terms of frequency and geography. Scientifically-based thresholds are defined for all hazards to determine the point at which they are severe or frequent enough to cause material damage. The assessment results indicate that a majority of the Company's locations may be subject to high or very high risks by 2050, particularly regarding ""heat stress"" and ""water stress"". The Company has implemented a comprehensive approach to analysing climate change-related physical risks and consists of two main parts. Firstly, a desktop analysis has been conducted for 355 locations of the Company and a preliminary vulnerability assessment for about 30,000 supplier locations. This involves a location-specific analysis based on geo-coordinates and information about the economic activities at each location to generate site-specific climate projections. These projections are then compared with predefined, scientifically-based thresholds for each hazard. Depending on the hazard, the magnitude, duration, likelihood, or extent is used to assess exposure, as described under ESRS E1 AR 11 (a). The biggest limitation in the scenario analysis is the current generation of climate models' inability to simulate all 28 hazards. Consequently, the analysis for certain hazards, including solifluction, land subsidence, thawing of permafrost, glacial lake outburst, saltwater intrusion, landslide, and coastal erosion, relies on historical data rather than climate projections. Secondly, the desktop analysis is complemented by an on-site analysis to further refine the identified risk factors. This involves assessing the vulnerability of the Company’s business activities, existing assets and industrial set up at each location to each hazard and determining whether the occurrence of each hazard would negatively and significantly impact business operations. A physical gross risk for a location is identified if it is both exposed to a site-specific hazard and the business activity is vulnerable to this hazard. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 169"
"The scaling up of the hydrogen ecosystem is challenging and is progressing at a slower pace than previously anticipated. The scalability of fuel cell technologies towards a commercially viable product will also require more time. A commercially viable product is now expected to come later than 2035. The Company will use this additional time to further develop the performance of the fuel cell propulsion and liquid hydrogen system technologies that are expected to enable the development of the Company's first fully electric commercial aircraft, as part of its ambition to pioneer sustainable aerospace. The Company is also fostering hydrogen ecosystem readiness by collaborating with various stakeholders, including airports, airlines, and energy providers, to support the evolution of market needs with renewable and low-carbon hydrogen. In order to foster such development, the “Airbus hydrogen network” involves a number of airports and numerous energy providers and airlines as partners, while new partners are still being recruited to join on a regular basis. In July 2024 alone, two Hydrogen Hubs were launched, one in Spain and another at Gatwick airport in the UK. Key figure Unit 2024 Number of airports involved in “Airbus hydrogen network” No. 215 This comprehensive approach underscores the Company's commitment to sustainable aviation and its role in driving industry-wide decarbonisation efforts. The Company plans to continuously invest in technologies to reduce product emissions with a time horizon extending beyond the 2035 timeframe mentioned for the near-term target. Decarbonisation lever #4 - Scope 3 Use of sold products - SAF uptake The Company is actively fostering SAF ecosystems readiness and partnerships to mitigate climate change. The primary constraints for operators are the price and global production capacity of SAF, which hinder large-scale adoption. To establish a robust SAF market, it is essential to match production with demand, supported by global regulatory frameworks and incentivisation schemes. This includes implementing reporting mechanisms for consistent tracking of decarbonisation progress and using book and claim systems to simplify SAF usage and demonstrate its benefits to freight and corporate customers when needed. The Company is actively supporting the development of a regulatory framework supporting the growth of the SAF market. The Company advocates for policies that incentivise SAF production and usage, sharing industry best practices, and focusing on production levels assessment, life cycle analysis methodology, and sustainability criteria and standards harmonisation. A clear, stable, and consistent policy at both global and local levels, along with incentivisation or regulations, is essential to promote long-term investments and technology development. Lever #4 - Scope 3 USP - SAF uptake - Target enablers / contributors Unit SAF CO2 emissions reduction throughout life cycle vs. conventional kerosene % Up to >80% Current Company's aircraft portfolio SAF fuel blend capability in operations % Up to 50% End of the decade ambition for the Company's aircraft portfolio SAF fuel blend capability, including military aircraft and helicopters % Up to 100% The Company is vigilant about the potential future positive or negative impacts on the environment or people that could arise with the development on the SAF market, if uncontrolled. SAF is a fuel derived from a range of “feedstocks” (origin of carbon molecules used) made from sustainable resources and brings significant reduction of CO2 emissions throughout its life cycle when compared with conventional kerosene (see table). Eight SAF production pathways are currently certified for blending with kerosene, including processes such as hydro-processed esters and fatty acids (HEFA), alcohol-to-jet, Fischer Tropsch, or power-to-liquid. Some of them are derived from used fat, cooking oil and grease, municipal waste, agricultural and forestry waste and residues. More advanced technologies use hydrogen and carbon captured directly from the air as feedstock for SAF production. On one hand, regional SAF production, dependent on local feedstock availability, can significantly contribute to socio-economic development, particularly in developing nations. On the other hand, it is essential that other sustainability dimensions be considered to prevent potential adverse impacts, especially for those SAF production pathways that imply land use. In order to be considered a SAF, an aviation fuel needs to meet defined sustainability criteria and requirements; the Company supports the ones set out by ICAO/CORSIA and in particular aspects related to non-competition with food and water resources. It also actively supports current and future sustainability criteria via regionally or nationally recognised schemes including EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED II), Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), Low Carbon Fuel Standard in the US, Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation in the UK and ‘Renewable Fuel Units' (HBEs) in the Netherlands. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 176"
"Creating favourable conditions for the SAF market requires both global cooperation and regional initiatives. In the EU and the US, positive momentum is evident, and similar efforts are needed worldwide. Cooperative platforms like the Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative (CAAFI) in the US exemplify how stakeholders can collaborate to foster development of the market. Early adopter. As an early adopter, the Company aims to stimulate market demand through its above mentioned flight tests and internal logistics using the Beluga aircraft, addressing actual SAF market development challenges. Key figure Unit 2024 Proportion of SAF used in Company’s own operations % 18% In addition, the Company also engages with customers to assist them in using SAF in their commercial operations and better understand how SAF can be integrated in their business models. In 2024, the Company signed an agreement with airline Wizz Air including the integration of SAF on two European routes, as well as passenger surveys and joint marketing campaigns. The scope of this action is focused on Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035 and beyond. The Company is engaged in initiatives and partnerships promoting the development of SAF production and use. This also includes partnerships with airlines and producers aiming to accelerate the aviation sector’s transition to SAF. Towards a harmonised framework. As a global industry, aviation requires a harmonised and interoperable framework of standards and regulations to ensure a level playing field. The Company supports the systematic implementation of SAF policies across all states and recognises CORSIA as a reference for sustainability standards, aiding in the global sourcing of SAF. The Company also plays a leading role in cross-industry initiatives with ICAO state members, ATAG, IATA, JetZero Council (UK), and the First Movers Coalition, a partnership launched by the World Economic Forum (WEF). Regionally, the Company monitors the development of SAF-related regulations at national as well as regional levels to ensure their consistency with global standards and regulatory frameworks. For instance, in 2024, The Company contributed to the Colombian Ministry of Transportation's ""Roadmap for Sustainable Aviation Fuels in Colombia"" as a contributor to their roadmap through two studies: ""Decarbonizing Aviation in Latin America in a Sustainable Way"" and ""SAF Risks and Opportunities Workshop for Colombia"". The scope of this action is within Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. The decarbonisation lever for this action is the uptake of SAF. Aircraft capability. The Company is committed to ensure that all its aircraft platforms are up to 100% SAF capable by the end of the decade. This initiative aims to enhance the technical capability of the Company's aircraft portfolio, which is currently capable of operating with a fuel blend of up to 50% SAF. The ambition is to enable all aircraft platforms, including military aircraft and helicopters, to operate with up to 100% SAF by the end of the decade. The current 50% SAF limit ensures compatibility with the JET A/A-1 specification, allowing for a drop-in solution without modifications to aircraft or fueling infrastructure. Exceeding this limit would necessitate either modifications to adapt to a new fuel grade or the development of a purely synthetic fuel that fits within the existing specification. The Company is actively involved in two key research projects in collaboration with industry partners: VOLCAN (a collaboration with Safran, Dassault and the french ministry of transport) and ECLIF3 (a collaboration with with Rolls-Royce, the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and SAF producer Neste). These projects focus on assessing the impact of 100% SAF on engine and fuel systems, as well as measuring the benefits on emissions and fuel efficiency. The findings from these projects will support further research and technical work to achieve 100% SAF certification for commercial flights by the end of the decade. Additionally, the Company has contributed to the approval process of eight SAF blending pathways with kerosene and continues to support industry-wide standardisation efforts at ASTM International to approve future pathways. In 2024, The Company was designated as co-leader of a newly formed working group in the frame of the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG), aiming at developing technical specifications for 100% SAF. The scope of this action encompasses Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. The actions of this lever depend on the overall SAF market development, including the actions and investments of external resources. Decarbonisation lever #5 - Scope 3 Use of sold products - Operations improvement The Company is as well engaged in climate change mitigation through its Customer Services decarbonisation portfolio. This initiative is focused on reducing air traffic management (“ATM”) inefficiencies and CO2 emissions from current aircraft in operations. Key projects include the Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research programme (“SESAR”) and the HERON project, which aims to optimise aircraft operations during taxiing, improve trajectory-based operations (“TBO”), and reduce noise pollution. The current ATM environment is transitioning from static flight plans to TBO to enhance airport and Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 177"
"ATM network performance. The Company is also developing fuel-saving procedures for airports and ground operations to minimise engine and auxiliary power unit (APU) usage while aircraft are on the ground. In addition, the Company is exploring innovative practices such as formation flying through the Fello’fly project, launched in November 2019. This project aims to demonstrate the viability of two aircrafts flying in close proximity on long-haul flights, allowing the follower aircraft to reduce engine thrust and fuel consumption per trip by utilising the wake energy of the leading aircraft. The scope of these actions are limited to Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. Lever #5 - Fello’fly project key figure Unit Estimated engine thrust and fuel consumption reduction for follower aircraft (long-haul flights) % fuel burn up to 5% In 2024, the Company has built on the positive results of the Fello’fly project by taking the lead of the EU’s new “Gain Environmental Efficiency by Saving Energy” (GEESE) project, that will bring a concept of operations based on continental traffic flows from Europe to Asia and Europe to the Middle East. It will also define the requirements on operations and systems using the traffic flows from Europe to North America. For decarbonisation levers #3, #4 and #5, the quantification of potential contributions to GHG emission reduction is deemed in part confidential and therefore not published. Due to the complexity and interdependencies between all product-related decarbonisation levers, it is not possible to calculate the achieved individual contributions to the overall GHG emission reductions. However an order of magnitude of the respective contributions from these levers to the sector’s decarbonisation ambition can be found in the graph entitled “The aviation industry’s roadmap towards “Carbon Neutral Emissions” by 2050’ (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). Financial resources for mitigation actions The Company estimates that a couple of hundred million euros per year (combined OpEx and CapEx) may be necessary to complete its Scopes 1 & 2 decarbonisation plan. This estimate is indicative and may be revised pending evolution and progress of the project portfolio. ADAPTATION Leveraging the preliminary outcomes of its resilience analysis, including at site level, the Company is starting to identify and plan adaptation measures that need to be undertaken locally. They are being prioritised, taking into account the estimated time of horizons and / or speed of onset of respective risks. Actions have already been engaged, corresponding to the risks deemed more imminent such as extreme heat and floods. For instance, in Airbus Toulouse a heatwave preparation plan was implemented, and a study on the arduousness and dangerousness of working in high heat was carried out by the occupational health service and the occupational physician. This study focused on the feedback from experiences conducted during the 2023 heatwave, during which 150 workers tested ""Heat stroke alert"" bracelets and cooling clothing. These experiences continued in 2024, and personal protective equipment related to heat will be tested and used again in the coming years. In Airbus Illescas in Spain, following the 2022 heatwave, forced ventilation was installed in all the technical rooms. Green areas have also been adapted, with Japanese gardens combining local plants requiring less water, and a drop irrigation system. Good practices such as free cooling, the use of heat and humidity sensors in technical rooms (connected to a Building Maintenance System) and the use of UV sheets to cover windows are also being implemented by several sites, for instance in Premium Aerotec Varel (PAI Varel). Some measures were also put in place to prevent the impact of flooding events. Flood barriers were installed in Airbus Atlantic Nantes after the site was impacted by an intense flooding event in recent years. In PAI Varel, a weather station is used to control the smoke exhaust closures during rain or strong wind events, and all gutters and water drains are systematically checked and cleaned after each stormy episode. In addition, the design and building of new facilities take into consideration applicable standards aimed at reducing their vulnerability to climate related hazards. The Company will continuously complement, sequence and refine its approach as additional information becomes available, including from its on-going resilience analysis. Certain actions may imply engaging with local authorities and/or communities. Additional actions related to water stress risk are presented in “– 6.2.4 ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources”. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 178"
"The Company is insured against the risks linked to climate-related events that could arise in the short term. The Company has subscribed a property damage and business interruption insurance policy including the impact of natural hazards, covering earthquake, wind and flood, and any other natural event not defined as earthquake, wind and flood, including but not limited to hail, avalanche, snowfall/weight of snow, and mudflow. With regards to its aircraft products, the Company is engaged in adapting its products to the changing climate, recognising the sensitivity of these products to weather phenomena during their operational phase. This proactive approach is essential due to the long lead times associated with aircraft development and operation. To address this, the Company is participating in the European Network - Impact of Climate Change on Aviation (EN-ICCA), an industry working group launched by EASA. The objective of this group is to define a work programme aimed at enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening resilience, and reducing vulnerability to climate change within the aviation sector. Additionally, the Company is engaged in the creation of a working group with ICAO, further demonstrating its commitment to this critical issue. The scope of this action encompasses the downstream value chain on a worldwide scale, with the first assessment scheduled for Q1 2025. This action is continuous and does not have a fixed time horizon. 6.2.2.6 ​Targets (E1-4) The Company has set itself three targets to manage material climate-related impacts and risks: Scopes 1 & 2 The Company aims to reduce its Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions as shown in the table below, and to yearly neutralise all residual emissions. Energy target - Scope 1 & 2 emissions SBTi-validated, aligned with a 1.5°C scenario Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Scope 1 & 2 market-based emissions ktCO2e 2030 467 -63% 2015 1,262 Intermediate milestones, on TCO scope ktCO2e 2025 509 -3% 2024 524 ktCO2e 2024 581 -2% 2023 592 Assumptions: see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” The target is set on the aggregate of Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based. While the plan defined to reach this target includes actions differentiated for Scope 1 and Scope 2, no additional sub-targets were formalised for Scope 1 and Scope 2 separately. The Scopes 1 and 2 target is validated by SBTi as being science-based and aligned with a 1.5°C scenario. The 2015 baseline has been set Company-wide as per SBTi requirements. The Company is considering future developments and their impacts on its Scopes 1 and 2 target, in line with requirements of applicable SBTi guidance and as outlined in the Transition Plan (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). The SBTI Guidance 4.2 methodology was used to set the target and the Company sets-out to update the target at least every five years, in accordance with applicable SBTi guidance. A 2050 target has not yet been defined. This Company-wide target covers the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (market-based for Scope 2) and target boundaries were defined in accordance with SBTi guidance 4.2. To operationalise the 2030 target, it is broken down in annual reduction targets and reductions are allocated across sites: they refer to a material sub-perimeter of its operations, referred to as Top Company Objectives (“TCO”) scope, on which the Company can have a more direct control and influence, and used by the Company to steer its annual progress (see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”). The target is a combined target for Scopes 1 and 2 which has been defined along guidelines set-out by SBTi guidance 4.2, including its baseline value. No intensity target has been set. For Scope 2 emissions, the target is based on the market-based GHG accounting method. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, incl. Facility Management, Industrial Operations, Finance, and Procurement, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. Target achievement is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly and monthly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with expectations - see “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” for more details on achievements. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing and site operations to reduce emissions in line with the ambition of the Paris Agreement. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 179"
"Scope 3 - Use of sold products The Company aims to reduce the emission intensity of its commercial aircraft products: Energy target - Scope 3 Use of sold products SBTi-validated Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Commercial aircraft products emissions intensity gCO2/RPK* 2035 48.0 -46% 2015 88.8 Scope: Company's commercial aircraft Assumptions: average of emissions intensity of all commercial aircraft delivered in the reporting year * RPK: Revenue Passenger Kilometre The target is validated by SBTi as being science-based and aligned with a “well below 2°C” scenario, which is in line with the required level of ambition for a Scope 3 target according to SBTi’s “Corporate near-term criteria version 5.2”. Compatibility of the target with 1.5°C will be assessed when relevant guidance from the EU Commission becomes available. The Company is considering future developments and their impacts on its Scope 3 target, in line with requirements of applicable SBTi guidance and as outlined in the Transition Plan (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). The SBTi Guidance 4.2 methodology was used to set the target and the Company sets-out to update the target at least every five years, in accordance to applicable SBTi guidance. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to develop products and services that enable a reduction of emissions in line with the ambition of the Paris Agreement. A 2050 target has not yet been defined. The set target covers the use of sold products of all commercial aircraft sold (for more information on scope 3 coverage see 6.2.2.8 “GHG emissions”). The target boundaries and baseline value are defined in accordance with SBTi guidance 4.2. The 2015 baseline has been set based on Scope 3 “use of sold product” for commercial aircraft deliveries in 2015, as per SBTi guidance. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, including Strategy, Engineering, Finance, Programmes and Services, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. The Company's progress on the target is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with projections. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. An absolute target has not been defined for Scope 3. Energy The Company aims to reduce purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources across the whole Company reporting scope. This target is aligned with the Scopes 1 & 2 target as the resulting energy consumption reduction is an enabler of the Scopes 1 and 2 target. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, including Facility Management, Industrial Operations, Finance, and Procurement, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. Energy target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources GWh 2030 2,534 -20% 2015 3,167 Scope: Company-wide Assumptions: see “– 6.2.2.2 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5)"" Target achievement is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly and monthly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with expectations. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing and site operations to reduce emissions in line with the ambition of reducing resource consumption and associated emissions. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. Please refer to the section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” for information on decarbonisation levers, plans to adopt new technologies as well as progress against GHG targets. With regards to the energy target related to stationary sources, energy consumption reduced in 2024 despite a production growth context, supported by significant gas consumption containment, better heating monitoring and temperature control as well as clement weather conditions. The 2024 energy target-related metric stood close to the 2030 target, however the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 180"
"Climate adaptation The Company has not set targets for climate adaptation, as this topic is currently managed through the existing risk management process. 6.2.2.7 ​Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Scope of reporting: Reported data covers Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by energy suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling adapted to each metrics. This can be employee-based, surface-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metric. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Energy consumption from nuclear sources was primarily derived from contractual information. When such information is not available, national nuclear percentages defined by the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) have been used. High climate impact sectors used to determine the energy intensity correspond to the categories C Manufacture C30.3.0 - Manufacture of air and spacecraft and related machinery, and C33.1.6 - Repair and maintenance of aircraft and spacecraft amongst those listed in NACE Sections A to H and Section L as defined in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288. As a result, the Company’s total turnover as disclosed in the financial statement is deemed to correspond to the net revenue amount from activities in high climate impact sectors. Climate change metrics Energy consumption and mix Unit 2024 Total Energy Consumption MWh 3,703,856 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 2,278,219 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products MWh 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products MWh 940,425 Fuel consumption from natural gas MWh 920,570 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources MWh 1,953 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources MWh 415,270 Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh 339,256 Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 1,086,381 Fuel consumption from renewable sources MWh 310,375 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources MWh 772,825 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy MWh 3,180 Percentage of energy consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 9.2% Percentage of renewable sources in total energy consumption % 29.3% Percentage of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 61.5% Non-renewable energy production MWh 286,605 Renewable energy production MWh 6,238 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors MWh 3,703,856 Total energy consumption form activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors MWh/ M€ 53.5 Purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources, as per Company energy consumption related target ⚐ Mwh 2,597,029 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 181"
"Scope 2 GHG Emissions - Percentages of energy contracts Unit 2024 Percentage of regular energy contracts % 89.9% Percentage of regular energy contracts covered by bundled EACs % 31.7% Percentage of regular energy contracts covered by unbundled EACs % 8.7% Percentage of regular energy contracts not covered by EACs % 49.4% Percentage of physical direct-wire PPAs % 0.3% Percentage of sleeved PPAs % 4.6% Percentage of virtual PPAs % 0.0% Percentage of other renewable contracts % 5.3% Percentage of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of energy bundled with attributes about energy generation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions % 39.3% Percentage of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of unbundled energy attribute claims in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions % 6.2% 6.2.2.8 ​GHG Emissions (E1-6) Scope of reporting and methodology Reported data covers Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. Most data was reported by entities (see table below). While generally calculated based on measured quantities (energy consumed, refrigerant leakages), certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling adapted to each metrics. This can be employed-based, surface-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metric. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). In order to report on performance against its target, the Company also reports its total emissions Scopes 1 and 2 on a sub perimeter called “TCO scope” (see below). Top Company Objectives (“TCO”) Scope: TCO scope is material sub-perimeter of its own operations and operationally controlled entities (see cover rate in the table below) used for the short-term targets setting and performance monitoring, composed of sites deemed relevant to monitor the deployment of the Company’s Scopes 1 & 2 decarbonisation plan, as prioritised, and therefore also including the largest contributors to the concerned metrics. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% TCO scope, related to Scope 1&2 target % of the Company’s 2024 Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG Emissions 85% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”) Scope 1. Calculation includes contractual instruments (Biomethane Guarantees of Origines) as part of Scope 1 emissions, calculated based on biomethane emission factors instead of natural gas. This approach will be refined as further related guidance is issued by the GHG protocol. Emissions factors used are based on national references for the Companies’ core countries (France, Germany, Spain, UK) and on international references such as the IPCC for other countries. Key figure Unit 2024 Scope 1 Savings related to contractual instruments (Biomethane GoO) ktCO2eq 17 Scope 2. Contractual instruments used to calculate Scope 2 market based GHG emissions are -1- Power Purchase Agreements (direct wire or sleeved PPAs), -2- energy attributes certificates (e.g. REC, GoO, IREC, ETC), -3- other renewable electricity contracts. The share energy bundled with attributes or unbundled has been taken into account for all contractual instruments. All three above categories are used by the Company. So far energy attributes certificates have been the vast majority. Their respective shares in total use vary over time. Emission factors were determined following the hierarchy recommended by the GHG protocol, prioritising contractual instruments or supplier emission factors when available over national or residual emission factors (from IEA and AIB databases). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 182"
"Scopes 1 & 2 Biogenic emission factor. Scope 1 biogenic emissions have been calculated based on biogenic emissions factors available or estimated based on the available information. While the Company could estimate that overall Scope 2 biogenic emissions are non-significant - and reported as such (“NS”) in the table hereafter -, missing emission factors from suppliers did not enable to compute an accurate figure for 2024. Scope 3. The Company has performed a screening of all Scope 3 categories and concluded that category 11 “Use of Sold Product” is the only significant category to be disclosed. Scope 3 significant categories Unit Estimated share of Scope 3 category 11 “Use of Sold Product” in the Company’s total emissions % >95% Estimated share of non significant Scope 3 categories in the Company’s total emissions excluded from reporting % <5% Estimated share of “commercial aircraft family of products” in the Company’s Scope 3 category 11 emissions % >90% All other categories have been deemed non significant and are as such excluded from the Company’s disclosure. Scope 3 - Use of sold products. The main contribution of the Company’s value chain on climate change comes from the use of sold products and the Company reports in-use emissions of the products it delivers (Scope 3 – Use of sold products). This started in 2020 with the disclosure of emissions from commercial aircraft products, and was extended to other products from 2021, namely civil helicopters initially and military aircraft and helicopters in 2022, further complemented by satellites in 2023. The Company will continue to progressively extend the scope of reporting to other families of products, for which the calculation methodologies are still under development. Nevertheless, current results and advanced estimations have shown that the vast majority of the Scope 3 - Use of Sold Product impact of the Company’s products is due to the commercial aircraft family of products, and that this situation is unlikely to change once all the product families will have been assessed. Additional methodology information: ●​ The Company’s emission calculation methodology was developed by a team consisting of key personnel from the engineering and environment departments to be aligned with the guidance provided by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. ●​ The Company has used a number of assumptions based on internal and external information including assumptions based on publicly-available data. ●​ Scope 3 emissions are calculated based on product specific methodologies. As a result no part of the resulting emissions are calculated based on primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain partners For all products: ●​ The estimation includes CO2 emissions only. Emissions related to CH4 and N2O were excluded given the very low levels produced by modern aircraft engines. Emissions related to NOx were estimated and excluded given the uncertainty related to the NOx emission factors and the relatively low contribution of this emission stream. ●​ CO2 emission factors for kerosene are the ICAO internationally recognised lifecycle emission factor to be used for baseline fossil jet fuels (see table below). This factor represents a “well to wake” life cycle analysis to assess the overall greenhouse gas (GHG) impacts of a fuel including each stage of its production and use. Assumptions Unit CO2 emission factors for kerosene for fossil Jet-A /Jet-A1 kg CO2e per kg of fuel 3.846 Aircraft load factor % 82.5% For commercial aircraft: assumptions include the aircraft load factor, aircraft operational usage and average in-service lifetime. Primary data collected within the Company was also used, such as aircraft performance and configuration parameters. Emissions related to commercial aircraft engine start and taxiing have been included, however, emissions from the Auxiliary Power Units (APU) and ground handling equipment have been excluded. For the purpose of this calculation, the Company integrated into commercial aircraft Scope 3 the likely usage of SAF over the product lifetime, as per the IEA-SDS assumptions. Other operating conditions of the aircraft were considered to be static over the whole service life. In addition, the Company reports for reference an indicative figure based on a zero SAF usage. A330-200 deliveries destined to A330-MRTT conversion were excluded from the commercial aircraft perimeter and included in the military aircraft perimeter as part of the “other products” category. Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions and Total GHG Emissions are based on Scope 3 - Use of Sold Products IEA-SDS SAF uptake scenario for commercial aircraft. For other products: ●​ Helicopters: assumptions include activity data from Company’s customer services of helicopter operations such as flight hours per year and region where the helicopter is operated. Direct emissions and indirect emissions from jet fuel production are included over the product’s entire service life. The impact of SAF is not considered. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 183"
"●​ Military aircraft: flight hours and mission profiles vary significantly depending on conflicts and humanitarian crises. The estimation assumes the largest number of flight hours each aircraft has been designed for in its lifetime. The impact of SAF is not considered. ●​ Satellites: The estimation includes satellites delivered to external customers in 2024 and accounts for emissions linked to the production of the satellites’ propellant as well as emissions associated with the launch into space (launcher's propellant production and combustion). Emissions linked to the use of the satellites’ propellant are not included as they occur outside of the atmosphere and therefore do not contribute to global warming. Emissions linked to the reception, processing and usage of satellite data on the ground are not included. Scope 3 GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (as per SBTi-validated target) includes the emissions related to the upstream fuel production and considers the likely usage of SAF over the product lifetime, as per the IEA-SDS assumption. The deployment of SAF is an important aspect of the decarbonisation of the air transport sector, and is therefore an important aspect of the achievement of the Company’s near term target. There are a variety of SAF deployment scenarios and assumptions (e.g. IEA’s global energy and climate scenarios, Refuel EU’s mandate, ATAG “Waypoint 2050”) that may lead to different results in terms of decarbonisation. As a result, the Company is currently researching ways to track the actual uptake of SAF in the fleet (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). Scope 3 - Biogenic emission factors. Emissions of biogenic carbon are calculated based on the CO2 emissions arising from the combustion of bio-derived SAF included in the “IEA-SDS SAF uptake” scope 3 metric below. The CO2 emission factor for the combustion of SAF is assumed to be identical as that of the combustion of fossil kerosene. GHG intensity. Net revenue used for calculation of GHG emissions intensity equals the Company’s total revenues as displayed in the financial statements. Performance Milestones and Target Years GHG emissions disaggregated by Scopes 1 and 2 and significant Scope 3 Unit Base Year 2015 2024 2025 % 2025 target vs. 2024 2030 % 2030 target vs. Base Year 2035 % 2035 target vs. Base year Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions including regulated emission trading schemes ktCO2eq 451 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes % 37% Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions ktCO2eq 318 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions ktCO2eq 163 Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based ktCO2eq 769 Gross market-based ktCO2eq 1,262 614 467 -63% Scope 1 + Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions on TCO scope ⚐ ktCO2eq 524 509 -3% Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ktCO2eq 474,691 cat.11 - Use of sold products ktCO2eq 474,691 ・ Commercial aircraft IEA-SDS SAF uptake ktCO2eq 466,354 ・ alt. Commercial aircraft - (""no SAF"" scenario) ktCO2eq 560,614 ・ Other products ktCO2eq 8,337 Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) ktCO2eq 475,460 Total GHG emissions (market-based) ktCO2eq 475,305 Biogenic CO2 emissions Scope 1 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq 85 Scope 2 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq NS Scope 3 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq 75,392 Scope 3 Cat 11. GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (as per SBTi-validated target) gCO2/ pax.km 88.8 61.1 48.0 -46% Scope 3 Cat 11. GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (""no SAF"" scenario”) gCO2/ pax.km 73.4 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 184"
"2024 GHG emissions breakdowns Unit Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Mobile sources of emissions ktCO2eq 245 0 0 Stationary sources of emissions ktCO2eq 206 318 163 From consolidated accounting group ktCO2eq 446 275 139 From operationally controlled entities ktCO2eq 5 43 23 GHG intensity per net revenue Unit 2024 Total GHG emission (location based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Total GHG emission (market based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Key figures Unit 2024 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity In € Million 69,230 Net revenue (other) In € Million 0 Total net revenue (in financial statements) In € Million 69,230 6.2.2.9 ​GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) Carbon credits act as an additional voluntary measure for greenhouse gas emissions neutralisation, contributing towards global climate actions and it does not intend to replace emissions reduction or become a way of achieving Company’s near-term SBTi validated targets. Both nature-based and technology-based removals, from climate change mitigation projects outside the Company supply chain, are considered and should be purchased in 2025, following the conclusions of the IPCC (e.g. Special Report on 1.5°C and Assessment Report 6).The Company intends to work in partnership with carbon sequestration companies to generate additional technology-based carbon removals. So far, the Company has used carbon credits only, and no removal nor storage resulting from projects developed in own operations or value chain are reported. In 2024, the Company evolved its related contractual framework. This new framework is to be used from 2025, including to compensate for 2024 residual emissions as per Company commitment. Key figure Unit 2024 residual emissions to be compensated in 2025 - contractualisation being finalised tCO2eq 621,222 Recognised quality standards for carbon credits are those that are verifiable by independent third parties, make requirements and project reports publicly available and at a minimum ensure additionality, permanence, avoidance of double counting and provide rules for calculation, monitoring, and verification of the project’s GHG emissions. As a minimum, the carbon offsets purchased by the Company are certified by the Gold Standard or Verra or Verified Carbon Standard or Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standards and the supplier needs to show proof of how each one of the mentioned criteria was met. On top of the core criteria mentioned above, societal aspects are considered, such as prevention of child labour, respect of human rights and relations with the communities surrounding the projects (FPIC process) and co-benefits strategy. Information including project selection (criteria and generated credits quality) and the verification of their actual implementation as per contractual terms were verified by an independent external body. GHG Removals Unit 2024 Total GHG removals from own operations tCO2eq 0 Total GHG removals in the value chain tCO2eq 0 Reversals tCO2eq 0 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Unit 2024 Total tCO2eq 130,560 Share from removal projects % 0.45% Share from reduction projects % 99.55% Per recognised quality standard view % 100.0% Share from projects within the EU % 0.45% Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments % 0% Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 185"
"Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Unit Amount Until year Total tCO2eq 0 N/A 6.2.2.10 ​ Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) Key figure Unit Internal carbon price EUR / tCO2 150 Transition plan CapEx and OpEx The Company has established CO2 reduction targets for Scopes 1, 2, and Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions, which have been validated by SBTi (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1))”. Over the years, progress has been made in reducing emissions and towards achieving these targets. This progress is largely attributable to the Company’s strategic focus on investments (e.g. industrial assets), and operational measures (e.g. SAF purchase) aimed at decarbonising energy usage and improving energy efficiency, among other initiatives, which are centrally managed and prioritised by the Company. CO2 savings are inherently the primary decision criterion for this category of investments, and the use of a shadow carbon price - as described in the following paragraphs - had therefore a limited influence on these CapEx investment decisions. Details on investments and measures are disclosed in section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1)”. CapEx investments (Scopes 1 & 2) The Company has started to apply a shadow carbon price in its broader decision-making process to assess the financial impact of carbon emissions and influence decisions accordingly. This fixed price (see table above) was established considering benchmarks, carbon price projections from various relevant sources such as those of the IPCC 2018, IEA and IRENA 2017 and French authorities, as well as the Company's intention to make it an influential factor. The price aims to signal to project leaders the importance of CO2 footprint reduction and to support consistency of investment decision making with the Company’s commitments to decarbonisation. The integrated internal pricing mechanism factors the internal carbon price into net present value and internal rate of return calculations as part of business case evaluations. By incorporating the cost of carbon, the Company seeks a more holistic financial analysis of its CapEx projects. The financial component in decision making therefore strives to integrate internal carbon price, and favour those investments with a better CO2 footprint. As per the governance established on that matter, internal carbon price is applied in the business cases of CapEx dossiers for operations for Commercial Aircraft. While the actual use is still partial, the Company intends to continue deploying it in the coming years. Challenges to progress result from certain projects inherently having a minimal direct carbon footprint, or the associated CO2 emissions may be difficult to quantify or assign accurately, especially in complex supply chains or shared infrastructure. Product incremental development (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products) From November 2023, the use of the shadow carbon price was extended to current aircraft programmes’ product related major incremental developments in Airbus commercial aircraft business segment, supporting its Scope 3 emission reduction ambition. The internal carbon price is used when the Company introduces modifications to existing aircraft programmes, many of which could reduce drag or save weight in its aircraft design to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions, while accuracy could still be materially improved with further standardised methodologies to assign a CO2 emissions to specific modifications. Of note, the use of this internal carbon pricing mechanism is not deemed appropriate in business cases related to any future programmes, to the extent that the energy dimension is embedded in related modelling and projections. Metrics While the Company does not consider CSRD-defined metrics to be relevant indicators to steer such a topic in view of the context described above, the Company will strive to collect necessary information to report such metrics in the future when additional guidance and best practices emerge. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 186"
"2.3.2​ Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2024: CEO This section contains information incorporated by reference to address CSRD requirements related to Disclosure Requirement “GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes”, paragraph 29. This section describes how the Remuneration Policy was implemented in 2024 with respect to the CEO (Mr Guillaume Faury). In line with the expectations of the Company's Remuneration Nomination and Governance Committee (“RNGC”) and the Board of Directors, the philosophy of the Remuneration Policy is to provide remuneration that will serve to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre executives, while taking into account best practices as well as employee and shareholder considerations. In practice, the Remuneration Policy should help the Company to achieve its strategic and operational objectives, and foster the Company’s aim of delivering sustainable returns, consistent with the Company's identity, mission and values. Before setting the targets to be proposed for adoption by the Board of Directors, the RNGC analyses scenarios with respect to the potential targets, and considers the financial and other outcomes that would result from meeting various performance levels, including achieving maximum performance thresholds, and how the level and structure of executive remuneration would be affected, together with the potential risks for the Company's business that these outcomes could present. The Board of Directors further considers these aspects, based on the RNGC’s recommendation. 1-​ Benchmarking Upon the request of the RNGC, a benchmarking exercise was performed in July 2024 by an independent third party, following an approach consistent with that applied for the prior benchmarking exercise (performed in 2023). The relevant peer group was comprised of 55 companies1 selected from the CAC40 in France, the DAX 40 in Germany, the FTSE 100 in the UK, the IBEX 35 in Spain and the Dow 30 in the US, having comparable economic indicators such as revenues, number of employees and market capitalisation. The benchmarking selection took the Company’s geographical imprint (operations and employees) into consideration, and offered perspective on compensation practices from direct and indirect competitors. US companies were included in this peer group, particularly as the Company has direct competitors in the US, and since the Company operates in the US, it has to compete with US companies to recruit senior executive talent. That said, considering the unique pay practices prevalent in the US, and since Airbus executives are mainly based in Europe, US companies were not weighted as heavily as other jurisdictions. The data was compounded using the following weighting: France 30% Germany 30%, Spain 15%, the United Kingdom 15% and the USA 10%. Financial institutions were excluded from the peer group. The updated benchmark shows that globally the Total Target Cash (Base Salary + Variable Remuneration) of the peer group increased by around 7%, while the Total Direct Compensation (Base Salary + Variable Remuneration + LTIP) of the peer group increased by around 10%, versus the prior benchmark. The comparison of the remuneration of the CEO versus the market range is as follows: ●​ the Total Target Cash of the CEO (€ 2,970,000) is below the median market range of the peer group (€ 3,366,000) by around 12%; ●​ the Total Direct Compensation of the CEO (€ 4,455,000) is below the median level of the peer group (€7,365,000) by around 40%; ●​ while considering the peer groups, irrespective of the KPI selected (turn over, market capitalisation, number of employees), Airbus belongs to the companies in the third quartile of the peer group. 1 Peer group: France : Air Liquide, Danone, Dassault Systèmes, Engie, Safran SA, Saint-Gobain, Sanofi, Schneider Electric, Stellantis, Thales, Total, Vinci Germany: BASF, Bayer, BMW, Continental, Deutsche Post, Deutsche Telekom, E.ON, Henkel, Mercedes, SAP, Siemens, Volkswagen Spain: Aena, Amadeus IT, Cellnex, Endesa, Ferrovial, Iberdrola, Inditex, Naturgy, Repsol, Telefónica UK: Bae Systems, BAT, BP, Diageo, GSK, Rio Tinto, Rolls Royce, Shell, Tesco, Unilever, Vodafone US: 3M; Boeing, Caterpillar, Fedex, GE, General Dynamics, IBM, Lockheed, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 61"
"In addition to external benchmarks, the RNGC also considers the remuneration of employees through the review of the evolution of the pay ratio (see below under “-10 - Pay ratio”). 2-​ Base Salary The 2024 CEO Base Salary level on a full year basis is unchanged compared to 2022 and amounts to € 1,485,000 (still below the 2019 Base Salary of the former CEO: € 1,500,000). 3-​ Variable Remuneration As stipulated in the Remuneration Policy, the CEO's Annual Variable Remuneration (VR) is targeted at 100% of the Base Salary and capped at 200% of the Base Salary. It is subject to the fulfilment of collective and individual performance targets. For 2024, the VR of the CEO amounts to an aggregate of € 1,581,525 composed of €690,525 (93%) for the Common Collective Component and € 891,000 (120%) for the Individual Component. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 62"
"Performance achievement – Common Collective Component According to the policy applicable for the financial year 2024, the consolidated level of achievement of the Common Collective Component for the Company has been assessed at 93% by the RNGC and the Board of Directors in February 2025, against the target levels validated at the beginning of 2024 and that include detailed vesting scales for each criteria2. The overall achievement level results from: a 0% achievement of the EBIT target, a 144% achievement of the Free Cash Flow3 target and a 177.5% achievement of the Sustainability targets, as further described below. These criteria and their assessment apply to all Executives having a Common Collective Component in their variable remuneration, which since 2022 has been extended to all Senior Managers. Currently approximately 5,150 employees receive a collective bonus based on the achievements mentioned above. Sustainability targets are measured by two criteria: the rolling lost time injury frequency rate (""FR1"") which is the monthly number of lost time injuries per million worked hours averaged over 12 months) and the reduction in CO2 emissions (“CO2e”), each weighted for 10% of the Common Collective Performance. ●​ In 2024, the rolling FR1 decreased by 31% in Commercial Aircraft, increased by 11% in Airbus Helicopters and decreased by 49% in Airbus Defence and Space, leading to a consolidated achievement of 155%. For further details, please refer to Section 6.3.2.7 ""Sustainability Statement -Health and Safety”. ●​ In 2024, the CO2e decreased by more than 11% (reduction of circa 68 ktons), which is above the targeted reduction of 3%, leading to an achievement of 200%. For further details, please refer to Section 6.2.2 “Sustainability Statement -ESRS E1 - Climate change”. For 2025, the Board of Directors decided to maintain the Sustainability component composed of FR1 for 50% and CO2 avoidance for 50% and to set the following targets: ●​ FR1: a reduction of the rolling FR1 by 15% for Commercial Aircraft and Airbus Helicopters (at the end of 2024, the rolling FR1 at Commercial Aircraft and Airbus Helicopters was above 1) and a stabilisation for Airbus Defence and Space (at the end of 2024, the rolling FR1 at Defence and Space was significantly below 1) versus the actual 2024 rolling FR1; ●​ CO2e: the annual targets are set in line with the Company’s 2030 roadmap; they refer to a material sub-scope of its operations on which the Company can have a more direct control and influence. The CO2e for 2025 was set in absolute value at 508.5 ktons, which represents a reduction of 3% compared to 2024. For further details, please refer to Section 6.2.2 “Sustainability Statement -ESRS E1 - Climate change”. 3 In 2024, Airbus is using Free Cash Flow before customer financing and no longer Free Cash Flow before M&A and customer financing 2 While the Company is paying all due attention to investors' feedback, for sensitivity reasons, specific information on vesting scale (threshold, target, maximum) is not disclosed. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 63"
"Performance achievement – Individual Component The level of achievement of the Individual Component of the VR of the CEO is assessed by the RNGC and the Board of Directors against the targets set at the beginning of the year. For 2024, based on the review conducted by the RNGC and the Board of Directors in February 2025, the overall achievement level has been assessed at 120%. Overview on Individual Component achievements: Individual Component Weight Achievement 1.​ Outcome element 90% Top Company objectives (communicated to all employees of the Company and shared with the Executives and Managers of the Company) 30% 107% Individual objectives (how the CEO contributes to the success of the Company) 60% 113% 2.​ Behaviour element 10% 200% 2024 CEO’s Individual Component performance achievement 120% The Individual Component has been assessed according to two sets of complementary elements: 1.​ Outcome element The outcome element is composed of: -​ The Top Company objectives: accounting for 30% of the total CEO Individual Component, which are shared with Executives and Managers of the Company to promote collective alignment; Since 2023 to create a shared spirit of collective engagement and solidarity across the Commercial Aircraft business towards, the ultimate operational target consists of reaching the delivery guidance, hence increasing the Company’s productivity and efficiency. It translated into an individual objective shared by around 6,000 key contributors to the Commercial Aircraft business. Despite a complex operational environment, 766 aircraft were delivered (versus the guidance update of around 770) in 2024. -​ The CEO’s Individual objectives: accounting for 60% of the total Individual Component, they encompass various aspects of what the CEO can do to contribute to the success of the Company, such as specific business results he achieves, projects he drives and processes he improves. As disclosed in the 2023 Report of the Board of Directors, published in February 2024, the individual priorities of the CEO for 2024 comprised: 1.​ Implement strategy, including but not limited to portfolio optimisation for value creation; 2.​ Execute the product roadmap balancing short term and long term goals; 3.​ Improve our geopolitical resilience in a more fragmented world; Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 64"
"4.​ Be the catalyst for future European aerospace cooperation and Protect and deliver major defence programmes milestones; 5.​ Drive organisational change and develop the leadership team for the future; 6.​ Enable execution on our Digital and Decarbonisation roadmap; 7.​ Oversee and ensure the Commercial Aircraft ramp up and guidance. Overview of the 2024 CEO’s Individual objectives achievement: 2024 CEO’s Individual objectives Weight Achievement Strategy implementation 10% The Board after reviewing the following factors in detail considered that the strategy implementation objective was achieved: The CEO conducted a comprehensive portfolio analysis, including a review of the minority interests, some of which were implemented in the course of the year, presented to the Board of Directors the Mergers and Acquisitions roadmap. Cooperation topics have been identified with partners of the Company last year and strategic partnership agreements have been entered into, for example with TotalEnergies or LanzaJet in Sustainable Aviation Fuel, pursuant to clear investment criteria defined and endorsed by the Board notably with respect to energy. 100% Product roadmap execution 10% The Board after reviewing the following factors in detail considered that the product roadmap execution objective was overachieved: The A321XLR, the world’s longest range single aisle aircraft, entered into service last year with the first delivery to Iberia in October 2024, following its successful certification for the CFM powered version. The operating range flexibility of this model provides resilience when facing airspace closures and longer flight routings. This demonstrates the continuous investments made to enhance existing technologies and search for incremental efficiency gains for the Company’s current products. Airbus Helicopters secured a comprehensive upgrade programme for the NH90 in 2024 with the signature of the block 1 upgrade with NAHEMA (Nato Helicopter Management Agency). The groundwork for the European Next Generation Rotorcraft has been laid through dedicated concept studies. The Racer, a high-speed helicopter demonstrator that aims to leverage increased speed to deliver added value for citizens and operators, made its first flight and reached its fast cruise speed target of 407 km/h in 2024. The simple and proven aerodynamic formula seeks to achieve the best trade-off between speed, cost-efficiency and mission performance. Despite a challenging year for the Space business, several satellites were successfully launched, for example the Sentinel-2C, built by the Company as part of the EU Copernicus Earth monitoring programme and the EarthCARE which was developed, built and tested with involvement of experts from 15 European countries as well as Japan and Canada, under the leadership of the Company. In June 2024, Airbus Defence & Space presented its new Wingman concept, a fighter-type drone that will be commanded by a pilot in a current combat aircraft such as the Eurofighter. Airbus Defence and Space has been awarded a contract by Eutelsat to build the extension of its OneWeb Low Earth Orbit constellation. Under the contract signed between the two companies, Airbus will build the first batches of the extension, totalling 100 satellites, with delivery targeted from the end of 2026. The new satellites will enable key technology upgrades and notably 5G on-ground integration. 120% Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 65"
"policies, are integrated into relevant management systems and governance, as described above, and that ensure adequate reliability and topic management. Monitoring system. The table below shows an overview of the monitoring system in place. Moreover, effectiveness of actions is reviewed periodically in the respective topical governance bodies, as well as in the Sustainability Strategy Committee whose scope encompasses all four topics. Example of monitored KPIs Responsible management body Supervising committee Controls Environment > Operations > Use of Products CO2e Scope 1, 2, Water, Waste Delivered aircraft CO2 efficiency metric Sustainability Organisation / Environmental Roadmap Environment Committee Sustainability Strategy Committee ERM, internal control Health and Safety Lost time injury frequency rate Health and Safety Organisation ERM, internal control Human Rights Nb of social assessments % of findings closed within 18 months Sustainability Organisation/ Human Rights Roadmap ERM, site social assessments and supply chain assessments Supply Chain Number of risky supplier sites covered by at least one dedicated action Procurement / Sustainable Supply Chain Roadmap ERM, external assessments, self assessments More detailed descriptions, as well as performance measures and analysis, can be found in the respective topic sections. IROs / ESRS mapping ESRS2 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Related metrics and targets ESRS E-1, E-2, E-3, E-5, S-1, S-2, S-4: “Targets” and “Metrics” sections Step 5: Communicating and reporting on progress The Company reports on progress and performance through various communication channels, including through its Sustainability Statement. Stakeholder engagement and collaboration. The Company’s approach to stakeholder engagement on sustainability matters is described in “ESRS 2 – 6.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders”. Considered stakeholders include those who have been, or could be, adversely impacted through the Company’s business activities and/or their relevant proxies. Where appropriate, the Company will engage with a range of civil society, peers, specialists and other stakeholders, including those representing rightsholders and where possible with rightsholders directly, and including on human rights issues, and will seek feedback on performance. To support its actions in this respect, the Company is also a member of the Global Business Initiative for Human Rights, the Responsible Business Alliance and the Responsible Mineral Alliance. The Company is also an active member of industry trade associations which regularly hold focused discussions on managing human rights and environmental-related risks within the aerospace and defence industry. These include the IAEG (International Aerospace Environmental Group), BDLI (German Aerospace Industries Association), BDSV (German Industry Association for Security and Defence), ASD (the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe), GIFAS (French Aerospace Industries Association), ADS (UK Industry Association for Aerospace, Defence, Security and Space), TEDAE (Tecnológicas de Defensa, Seguridad, Aeronáutica y Espacio), GICAT (Groupement des industries françaises de défense et de sécurité terrestres et aéroterrestres) and TechUK (the UK’s technology trade association). The Company is a founding member of the IAEG, which is working on development and promotion of common aerospace industry standards and tools to help manage environmental obligations and deploy best practices. In 2022, and co-led by the Company, a contract was established between IAEG and its selected service provider to build a sectoral approach for supplier assessment which started to be deployed in 2023 and continued to be deployed in 2024. Taking part in this IAEG voluntary sectoral framework for Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) engagement strengthens business resilience and optimises resources and costs for suppliers. In addition, an update of the Company's sustainability approach (including environment, human rights and health and safety) is regularly presented to key internal stakeholder groups, including the Airbus SE Works Council (SE-WC) comprising social partners from across Company’s European sites, and provides dedicated time for open dialogue and exchange. For more on stakeholder engagement, see: Overall approach ESRS 2 – 6.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 137"
"Grievance mechanism ESRS G-1 – 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) Step 6: Cooperating in appropriate remedy Remediation. If the Company identifies that it has caused or contributed to an actual adverse impact within its own operations, supply chain or other third party business relationship through its business activities, including through OpenLine or other means, it will endeavour to address such impacts by providing for or cooperating in appropriate remediation. This may include enabling remediation that is proportionate to the significance and scale of the adverse impact, including in cooperation with relevant stakeholders. 6.1.1.2.5 ​ GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting Risk management and internal control in relation to sustainability reporting are embedded in the broader Internal Control and ERM systems and processes described in section “– 3 Risk Management and Internal Controls”. The scope covers mainly the preparation of quantified information, including environmental, occupational health and safety, social data from sites and their consolidation as well as company wide calculation-based information such as Scope 3 estimates. Finance-related information is also covered by Internal Control through controls associated with the preparation of the financial statements. Furthermore, qualitative information is covered by a disclosure process from consistency reviews performed locally and centrally until the review and approval of the Company's Disclosure Committee. The Internal Control model is based on two lines of defence (the third line of defence being Corporate Audit). At first line, key controls are performed within the usual process at operational/function level to answer key systemic risks. Then, a second line testing activity is run in each accountable function on the key controls to measure their effectiveness (second line of defence). As it relates to the accuracy of quantitative environment and social information reported in the framework of the CSRD, the first line of defence mainly consists in the control of the local collection of information based on documented procedures and central consolidation including consistency verifications and comparison against targets. The second line testing is then performed by the Internal Control officers of the concerned Functions. The risk assessment approach as it relates to sustainability information is focusing on the following main systemic risks: the risk for the Company not to comply with the reporting directive scope (i.e. double materiality assessment and review) and the risk of disclosure misstatement (on quantitative and qualitative data points). The Internal Control framework and referential are currently under development on these topics, and prioritisation on the implementation is based on several criteria including the consideration of internal audits and external review findings, the results of the former Internal Control yearly campaigns where the data points were already covered, and the estimated importance for stakeholders - e.g. remuneration-linked information. Current risks identified include the alignment of metrics definition and preparation with CSRD various requirements, the timely collection and consolidation of sites related information due to the late availability of certain information and the integration of new sites into the reporting perimeter. Such challenges are being addressed through a number of mitigation actions including a proper and anticipated on-boarding of sites, a systematic review of internal metric definitions and the on-going creation of “ID cards” covering all reported CSRD quantified information. Current risks identified include as well the consistency of the qualitative information covered by the disclosure process as described above. Findings as regards to the sustainability reporting process are consolidated by the Internal Control team via the yearly Internal Control campaign and followed up by the respective functional Internal Control teams to define and monitor necessary action plans and drive continuous improvement. The Internal Control Committee is in charge of reviewing the results of the yearly Internal Control campaign before reporting to the Company’s Executive Committee and the Board's Audit Committee. 6.1.1.3 ​SBM: Strategy 6.1.1.3.1 ​ SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain The Company’s purpose is to ""pioneer sustainable aerospace for a safe and united world"". The Company designs, manufactures and delivers aerospace products - including aircraft, helicopters and satellites - services and solutions to customers - including commercial airlines, leasing companies, governments, helicopter operators, space agencies - on a worldwide scale helping to create value and drive growth. There have been no significant changes in either markets and Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 138"
"customer groups served or products or services offered during the reporting period. The Company is aware of its responsibility to society and future generations, and contributes to a number of UN Sustainable Development Goals (""SDGs"") through its core business and how it operates. This chapter provides key highlights on the Company’s strategy, business model and value chain. The Company's global presence is also reflected through its workforce repartition - see “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”. Through its portfolio of products and services the Company serves a number of global markets and customer groups. From a sustainability perspective, the range of products, including aircraft, helicopters and satellites, show large commonality in terms of technologies, industrial operations and supply chain so that no product differentiation is deemed relevant for associated IROs. Environmental impacts in the downstream value chain primarily relate to the use of commercial aircraft due to the energy-intensive nature of their operation associated with the high number operating of cycles over their lifetime. Differentiation across customer groups or markets served was not deemed meaningful either. Accordingly, the Company has set a number of sustainability goals and objectives that are connected to a number of identified IROs. These notably include a “quest to reach zero accidents” related to aviation safety or the ambition to pioneer sustainable aerospace. The Company aspires to lead the decarbonisation journey in aerospace. It pioneers advanced and disruptive technologies while continuously improving the fuel efficiency of its products. While its sustainability journey remains ambitious and challenging in many ways that are presented in the topical ESRS, the Company is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its products, including through a range of critical strategic pathways such as exploring new aircraft and propulsion technologies, alternatives to fossil fuels such as Sustainable Aviation Fuels (“SAF”), and maturing hydrogen technologies (see “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”). It is also committed to improving its environmental performance and, for example, to reducing emissions through its supply chain, cutting on-site waste and increasing the recycling capability of aircraft at the end of their service life. The Company’s products and services, such as its Earth-observation technologies, allow it to play its part in understanding climate change and responding to natural disasters. Neither the Company (including its subsidiaries) nor its joint ventures develop, produce, or distribute any “controversial weapons” as listed within Annex I of the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 supplementing EU Regulation 2019/2088 (Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (""SFDR"")) for Principal Adverse Impact indicator 14. This includes biological weapons or chemical weapons (in accordance with the Biological Weapons Convention and the Chemical Weapons Convention), cluster munition (Oslo Convention) and anti-personnel mines (Ottawa Treaty). Consequently, the Company does not have any exposure to the Principal Adverse Impact indicator 14 under the SFDR criteria. The Company participates in two joint ventures that contribute to France’s nuclear deterrence (ArianeGroup and MBDA), including the production and support of missile systems. These activities are compliant with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The Company’s reported revenues do not include any revenues relating to these activities (accounted for using the equity-method) as it does not have exclusive control of the joint ventures. Value chain The Company plays a pivotal role in the global aerospace and defence value chain, as a manufacturer, systems integrator and service provider. Its position within the value chain is embedded in the design, development, production and lifecycle management of aircraft, helicopters, satellites and related systems. Design and Development (own operations and upstream in the value chain). The Company designs its products in-house, focusing notably on optimising aerodynamics, fuel efficiency, weight reduction, integration of new technologies and safety. It is highly involved in related research, which also implies a close collaboration with a number of stakeholders such as suppliers - including companies that provide engines, avionics, materials, and subsystems -, universities and public research institutions or industry partners. Manufacturing and Assembly (own operations and upstream in the value chain). The Company relies on a global supply chain for sourcing components. These include structural components, avionics, engines and advanced materials. As an integrator, it operates major assembly plants. At these facilities, subassemblies and components are integrated into final products. Commercial aircraft final assembly lines are located across Europe (Toulouse; Hamburg) and worldwide (Mobile, Alabama; Tianjin, China; Mirabel, Canada). Sales, Distribution, and End users (own operations and downstream in the value chain). The Company acts as a supplier to airlines, governments and space agencies, taking on a central role in connecting the upstream product Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 139"
"development and manufacturing process to downstream customers. End-users are essentially passengers and flight crews, who are respectively customers and own workers of Company’s customers. Services and Support (own operations and downstream in the value chain). In addition, the Company provides maintenance, repair, and overhaul (“MRO”) and other services for commercial, military, and helicopter operators that support customers’ fleet operations for reliability and performance. This includes predictive maintenance and spare parts management services, training and simulation services for pilots, engineers, and crew members - through training centres and simulators worldwide -, upgrades and retrofits for existing aircraft and helicopters, extending their lifespan, improving fuel efficiency, or integrating new technologies, and end-of-life and recycling services through initiatives such as TARMAC Aerosave, which specialises in aircraft decommissioning. Regulatory and Airworthiness Authorities (entire value chain). The Company works closely with authorities such as the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (“EASA”) and the Federal Aviation Agency (“FAA”) to ensure compliance with safety standards and airworthiness regulations across its product range, value chain and product life cycle. Energy value chain (upstream and downstream value chain). As energy is necessary to operate the Company's products,the energy value chain is closely linked with the Company’s business model. This includes conventional kerosene production as well as SAF production or hydrogen production, as essential bricks in the Company decarbonisation journey. In this context, the Company also engages with some actors in the energy value chain as business partners (see ESRS-E1). Overall the Company plays a central role and fosters a constant and consistent dialogue and coordination throughout the value chain, including with industry associations and policy makers. It is committed to being a profitable, competitive company that meets customer and investors expectations and that has the financial strength to invest in the future of global aerospace and defence. Focus on supply chain engagement (upstream in the value chain) The Company relies on a global supply chain, composed of the suppliers with which the Company contracts supply agreements (“Tier-1”), and the suppliers of these Tier-1s (“Subtiers” suppliers). It sources services and products from thousands of suppliers worldwide, including raw materials, engines, systems, aerostructure elements and fuselage sections. The Company's daily collaboration with its suppliers supports meeting quality standards and performance requirements. Long-term contracting or partnerships also help reduce inflow risks, including related to the timely delivery of components. The active role of its suppliers will be essential for the aviation sector’s decarbonisation ambitions and for the Company sustainability journey more broadly. Accordingly, the Company has implemented policies and defined engagement plans that are led by its Sustainable Supply Chain Roadmap. While the Company’s products and services are sold all over the world, the majority of its supply chain is based in Europe and OECD countries. The Company has established regional procurement offices in North America (Herndon, Virginia), India (Bangalore), Asia Pacific (Singapore) and China (Beijing) to support local procurement initiatives. The regional procurement offices represent the Procurement function in the respective regions. They are responsible for strategic sourcing, general procurement and supplier development (procurement operations) while supporting the application of the Company’s procurement processes, policy and digital solutions. The Company strives to make environmental and social responsibility a core element of its procurement strategy. This includes managing the relationships with suppliers through the different phases of the procurement process: sourcing strategy definition, supplier selection, contract management and supplier monitoring and development. The Company’s Sustainable Supply Chain Roadmap is based on a three-step approach: supplier commitment, supplier assessment, supplier engagement and development. This approach is aligned with the Company due diligence approach (see “– 6.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence”) and includes: supply base risk mapping, supplier engagement and contractual requirements, supplier assessment/audits and development plans, policies, tools and reporting. As the Company’s commercial aircraft business and its two Divisions (Airbus Helicopters and Airbus Defence and Space) are certified ISO 14001, the Procurement function acts in adherence with ISO 14001 requirements. The depth of the Company's supply chain increases the complexity and, in many areas, the difficulty of identifying and addressing impacts both actual and potential. For instance, reliable information related to the precise mining sites that provide materials incorporated by an upstream sub-tier supplier, combined with other materials, into a component of the Company's products may be complicated to identify, collect and analyse, such as the smelters of raw materials that may end up in certain components that are installed on the Company's products. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 140"
"Benefits for customers and society The Company’s products help to connect economies and enable global cooperation and partnership: they bring together people and organisations across the globe, in person with its commercial aircraft and helicopters, and virtually with its satellites and connectivity solutions. The Company’s technology and products allow its customers to successfully master their global and domestic operations and the management of crises to reduce the risk of escalation. The Company's products help to protect citizens, defend sovereignty and advance global security, therefore contributing to sustainability. The Company’s contribution to a more prosperous and sustainable society goes beyond what it offers directly through its products and services. For example, as an important player in the aeronautics and defence industry, the Company contributes significantly to SDG 8 - “Decent Work and Economic Growth” and as a major European defence manufacturer, the Company also has significant economic impact across Europe contributing to Europe’s economic prosperity - as highlighted through ATAG and ASD publications: Key figures from ATAG 2024 Benefits Beyond Borders - global summary, available on the Air Transport Action Group website Jobs are supported worldwide by aviation ~86,500,000 Productivity of such jobs compared to other jobs, on average 3 times Contribution to global GDP USD 4.1 trillions % of world economic activity 3.9% Key figures from AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe, available on the ASD Europe website Jobs supported by the industry across the continent >1,027,000 2023 annual revenue EUR 290 billions The Company also contributes to the economic development of the communities where it operates. Full aerospace ecosystems - bringing together academia, research centres and corporations, all with high value-added jobs - often develop around the Company’s sites such as those in Toulouse, Hamburg or Bristol. This development is accelerated thanks to the Company’s innovation ecosystem such as Airbus Scale: an innovation unit that combines Company innovation, start-up engagement and company-building activities. 6.1.1.3.2 ​ SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders The Company is committed to engage in constant meaningful dialogue with its stakeholders, striving for openness, transparency and inclusiveness. Key stakeholder groups include, amongst others, employees, customers, suppliers, industrial partners (including energy providers), social partners, investors, NGOs, authorities / governments / policy makers, industry associations, MRO providers, air navigation service providers (ANSPs), airports, and the community at large. This approach is supported by the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG) guidance for the sector. In line with the governance presented above, each category of stakeholders is internally assigned to a function that defines the most adapted way of engaging with, and ensures the consistency and relevance of the dialogue. In its communications, the Company seeks to use clear and concise language and works to provide stakeholders with sufficient information regarding relevant topics in a timely manner. The Company attempts to improve its stakeholder engagement processes continuously, including by regularly reviewing and, if necessary, updating the various principles it observes, to ensure that the dialogue remains relevant and effective. If a relevant stakeholder requests dialogue, the Company tries to facilitate this request, unless it does not believe that this would be in the best interest of the Company and its business, in which case the Company may reject such request. In case stakeholder dialogue is already taking place, the Company may terminate such stakeholder dialogue if the Company believes that continuing such dialogue would not be in the best interest of the Company and its business. In addition, it has formalised a number of opportunities to exchange more widely with its stakeholders. For instance, beyond the materiality assessment, the Company meets at least twice a year with social partners to review sustainability topics (see “– 6.3.2.9 Social dialogue, freedom of association, and collective bargaining”). It also organises events and forums, such as the Airbus Supplier Sustainability Council, the Airbus Capital Market Day and the Airbus Summit to address sustainability topics with relevant stakeholders. Additionally, it regularly participates in numerous events such as air shows or conferences, which foster dialogue on sustainability matters with a large number of external stakeholders including investors, customers, media, NGOs, institutions, policy makers, and other industry or value chain partners. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 141"
"The Company’s dialogue with its stakeholders, in line with the above-mentioned principles, helps the Company to progress its sustainability ambition. For instance, it feeds the Company's materiality assessment so that the outcome embeds interest and views of stakeholders together with other elements of analysis. The Company's business model is closely interdependent with those of key stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, investors so that it integrates and reflects relevant views or expectations from them. For instance, such dialogue contributes to define topical roadmaps that are consistent with those of the sector (e.g. transition plan), and enables the Company to act on feedback (e.g. aviation safety). The Company endeavours to take the interests of relevant stakeholders - including in connection with the sustainability aspects of the Company’s strategy - into account, whereby the Company aspires to treat its stakeholders with respect and dignity and welcomes their perspectives. Stakeholders' views are contributing elements into several steps of the Company due diligence process, including for the impact identification / materiality assessment, as described for instance in the section “– 6.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”, the definition of topical ambition and/or action plans, or through alerts received through the grievance mechanism that trigger systematic consideration. The Company's strategy and business model is largely informed by stakeholders interests through, for example: the design of products that meet customers' expectations, including in terms of fuel consumption / CO2 performance as well as meet certification authorities requirements in terms of product safety; the consideration of supply chain capabilities in defining its operating model, through the numerous partnerships engaged including to support its decarbonisation roadmap (see “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”)' or the constant social dialogue that fosters working conditions that satisfy its workforce. When the views of key stakeholders, including on sustainability matters, have an influence on evolving the Company business or operating model, relevant information is shared through respective supervisory boards described in section “– 6.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the Company’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies” and supports decision-making. For instance, this may take the form of sharing information related to the materiality assessment or including in topical presentations contextual information about related relevant stakeholders’ expectations (e.g. customer feedback, supply chain perspectives, applicable regulatory frameworks). Complementary requirements in topical ESRS - that need to be taken into account when reporting against the Disclosure Requirements in ESRS 2 - on interests, views, and rights of stakeholders specific to certain ESRS are: S1 Own workforce The Company considers the interests, views, and rights of people in its own workforce, including respect for their human rights. Its workforce is a key stakeholder group, as well as social partners. Interests, views and rights of the Company’s own workforce, including respect for their human rights, inform the Company’s strategy and business model by being integrated into the overall due diligence process detailed in “– 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence”, and particularly in the human rights salient issue identification process and related action plans (see section “– 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”) as well as the stakeholder engagement process detailed in “– 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2)” below. They were also considered in the creation of the Airbus Company Human Rights Policy. S2 Workers in value chain Interests, views and rights of the Company's upstream value chain workers and in-situ contractors, including respect for their human rights, inform the Company's strategy and business model by being integrated into the human rights salient issue identification process and related action plans (see section ESRS 2 “– 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” below), the stakeholder engagement process detailed in section “– 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2)” and overall due diligence process detailed in sections “– 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence” and “– 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4)” further below. S4 Consumers and end-users Delivering safe products and supporting their safe operations throughout their lifetimes is a constant priority for the Company and an expectation of its customers and end-users. The Company is in constant dialogue with its customers and with airworthiness authorities, also representing end-users’ interests, on aviation safety matters in formalised frameworks. In addition, the Airbus OpenLine (see “– 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1)”) is accessible to any customer or end-user who would like to raise a safety-related concern. This dialogue informs many strategic dimensions including and not limited to product design, manufacturing, quality and procurement activities. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 142"
"6.1.1.3.3 ​ SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Synthesis of material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities resulting from double materiality assessment: IRO related (sub)topic (see table below for IRO full description) IRO Value chain Also described in / addressed in ** Impact* Risk Opport unity Own operations Up stream Down stream ENVIRONMENT - Climate change adaptation - Climate change mitigation - Energy ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ E1 / E1 E1 / E1 E1 / E1 - Pollution of air (VOC) - Substances of (very high) concern - Pollution of water and of living organisms and food resources *** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ E2 / E2 E2 / E2 E2 / E2 - Water withdrawal / consumption (linked to climate change) - Water - Habitat degradation *** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ E3 / E3 E3 / E2 - Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems - Biodiversity loss drivers - pollution *** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ E4 / E1 E4 / E2 - Resource inflow - Waste ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ E5 / E5 E5 / E5 SOCIAL Own workforce - Occupational health and safety - Social dialogue, freedom of association, collective bargaining - Diversity ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ S1 / S1 S1 / S1 S1 / S1 Workers in value chain - Occupational health and safety - Forced or child labour ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ S2 / S2 S2 / S2 - Personal safety of consumers and/or end users ✔ ✔ ✔ S4 / S4 GOVERNANCE - Corporate culture - Speak up culture - Management of relationships with suppliers - Corruption and bribery ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ G1 / G1 G1 / G1 G1 / G1 G1 / G1 COMPANY SPECIFIC - Cybersecurity ✔ ✔ ✔ Cyber / Cyber * identified impacts relates to negative existing or potential impacts; ** indicates where detailed IRO definition / information related to how these IROs are addressed can be found; *** in relation to kerosene production. Not Applicable IROs description: ENVIRONMENT E1 - Climate change Impact: Climate Mitigation: The operations at the Company's facilities and the air transport sector’s use of aircraft in operations lead to GHG emissions. The Company's purchased goods and services contain GHG emissions. Energy: Energy consumption/mix usage originating from the Company's facilities, the suppliers’ facilities and the air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation lead to GHG emissions. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 143"
"Risk: Climate adaptation: Climate adaptation risk, as detailed in “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”, includes the risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the acute or chronic impacts of future climate change on their industrial sites. Additionally, failure to adapt products to perform effectively under future atmospheric conditions in a timely manner, relative to the speed of these risks' onset or time horizon could lead to production disruptions or a product offering that no longer meets customer expectations. This could negatively affect financial performance. Climate mitigation: Climate mitigation risk, detailed in “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”, includes the risk that the Company or its suppliers may not meet their decarbonisation ambitions or the late availability of low emissions technology could lead to, respectively, investor mistrust or products failing to meet customer expectations. This could negatively affect financial performance. Energy: Climate-related energy risk, detailed in “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”, includes the risk that renewable and low carbon energy (e.g. SAF, hydrogen) may not be available in sufficient quantities in the necessary time frames. This could lead to less air travel and lower demand for aircraft or for future aircraft programmes if not suited to available energy sources, which could negatively affect financial performance. E2 - Pollution Impact: Pollution of air: Aircraft and aircraft parts painting and cleaning within certain facilities of the Company lead to volatile organic compound emissions, potentially resulting in air pollution if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources: Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to emissions into water, which may contribute to water pollution and to pollution of living organisms and food resources if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Risk: Substances of (very high) concern: There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may not be in a position to substitute substances of concern or of very high concern in due time in accordance with regulatory requirements. This could lead to business disruption across the value chain and to the Company not being able to deliver aircraft to its customers, which could negatively affect financial performance and damage its reputation. E3 - Water Impact: Water - Habitat degradation: See Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources above. Risk: Water consumption and withdrawal: There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the potential impact of water stress—related to climate change—on water consumption, usage and withdrawal in their industrial operations, within a timely manner relative to the onset of such risks. This could lead to production disruptions, which could negatively affect financial performance. E4 - Biodiversity Impact: Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss and impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems: the air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Pollution: Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 144"
"E5 - Resource & circularity Impact: Resource inflow: The aviation sector's use of titanium in the production of aircraft components represents a relatively high percentage of the resource's global stock and may affect global resource availability. Risk and Opportunity: Risk - Inflow: The risk of titanium supply disruption could have an impact on aircraft production and deliveries, which could affect financial performance. Waste: An opportunity to reduce waste may arise from optimising the recovery of industrial waste, such as high-value metallic scraps. This could contribute to more efficient industrial processes and to further secure supply and production, which could contribute to financial performance. SOCIAL S1 - Own workforce Impact: Working Conditions - Health and safety: Unidentified weaknesses in health and safety management measures could allow the Company's own workforce to work unsafely, which could cause injury or ill-health from the work environment, process or activity. Risk: Working Conditions - Health and safety: Unidentified weaknesses in health and safety management measures could cause work related injury or ill health that could affect employee engagement, absence rates or job market attractiveness and cause production disturbances. Equal Treatment - Diversity: There is a risk that the Company, despite significant efforts and resources dedicated to workforce diversity, is considered not sufficiently diverse, which could lead to employee disengagement and lower recruitment attractivity. This could damage its reputation. Working Conditions - Social dialogue: There is a risk that the Company does not conduct appropriate social dialogue, which could lead to strikes and production disruptions, and could impact working conditions. This could negatively affect financial performance. S2 - Workers in value chain Impact: Working Conditions - Health and safety: Unidentified weaknesses in due diligence and health and safety management measures could result in the use of suppliers that have inadequate occupational health and safety management measures potentially causing injury or ill-health from the work environment, processes or activities. Child Labour: The use of child labour in the upstream supply chain, including in sourcing raw materials, may result in harm for the physical and/or mental health of the concerned children. Forced Labour:The use of forced labour in the upstream supply chain, including in-situ contractors, may result in harm for the physical and/or mental health of the concerned worker. S4 - Consumers and End-users Impact: Personal safety of consumers and/or end users (Aviation safety): An accident associated with the operation of an aircraft may result in fatal or serious injury for those on board the concerned flight (flight crew, passengers). Risk: Personal safety of consumers and/or end users (Aviation safety): In addition to the impact described above, there is a risk that an aircraft accident may have a negative effect on the public’s or regulators’ perception of the safety of a given class of aircraft, a given airline, a form of design of aircraft or of air traffic management. This could damage the Company's reputation and negatively affect its financial performance. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 145"
"G1 - GOVERNANCE - Corporate culture - Speak up culture - Management of relationships with suppliers - Corruption and bribery Risk: Corporate Culture: There is a risk that a dysfunctional and negative corporate culture in the Company may lead to a lack of shared values, decreased motivation, reduced productivity and a failure to meet agreed standards and applicable rules. This could negatively affect financial performance. Speak up: There is a risk that not being able to maintain an effective speak up culture within the Company, including protection of whistleblowers, may delay the identification of certain risks or situations until they have been revealed in the public domain. This could negatively affect financial performance and damage its reputation. Supplier relationships: There is a risk that the Company's numerous suppliers and subcontractors' financial health and ability to meet their contractual obligations may be negatively impacted by internal and external factors, which could lead to operational disruptions and delivery delays. This could negatively affect financial performance. Corruption and bribery: There is a risk that ethical misconduct or non-compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws and regulations by the Company, its employees or any third party acting on its behalf could expose it to liability. This could negatively affect financial performance and damage its reputation. COMPANY SPECIFIC - Cybersecurity Risk: There is a risk that the materialisation of a cybersecurity risk, including intrusion in systems leading to data leakage, attacks impacting the resilience of industrial systems and compromising the development, use or operation of products and services, could lead to severe damage, including but not limited to significant financial loss, need for additional investment, contractual or reputational performance degradation, loss of intellectual property, loss of business data and information, operational business degradation or disruptions, and product or services malfunctions. This could negatively affect financial performance and damage its reputation. Overall, the Company's business model, strategy and governance take into account these IROs, as described in the previous sections of ESRS 2 and summarised in the table below. When relevant, more information is disclosed in respective topical sections, as referenced in the last column of the previous table, including how actual or potential impacts are related to the Company strategy or business model, the nature of activities or operations at stake, how actual or potential impacts may impact people or the environment action plans, how they are linked to strategy and business model, means allocated to address them and significant related financial effects eventually. Time horizons are presented in the respective IROs tables in each ESRS. As described in the governance section, management of these IROs is integrated into the Company’s operating model with assigned functional responsibilities. Accordingly, the financial dimension of topic management, including related to current and foreseeable forward looking financial resource allocation, is captured in the finance accounting and risk management processes. Actions related to all material IROs as presented in the respective ESRS were screened from a financial perspective. Climate mitigation-related actions require significant resources. Actions associated with addressing other IROs (see respective ESRSs) were deemed to be embedded in the current Company’s business or operating model and would therefore not require significant actual or forward-looking CapEx or OpEx. Further related information about Climate change IROs is presented in “– 6.2.2 ESRS E1 - Climate change” and in a dedicated note attached to the financial statements (see: “– Notes to the IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 3. Climate Impacts”). Finance processes also include a long term planning exercise that factors in significant financial effects including those expected to arise from addressing Climate change IROs and puts in perspective funding capabilities. This supports assessing the Company resilience and is used for impairment testing purposes, whose outcome is disclosed in the financial statements (see: “– Notes to the IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 3. Climate Impacts”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 146"
"Overview of how the management of topics related to identified IROs have a noticeable interaction with the Company's strategy, business and operating model: IRO related (sub)topic*: Company business model key dimensions include: Product policy & development Sales / aftersales / services Industrial set up Manuf acturing & logistics Workforce & working conditions Procure ment Processes / BMS ENVIRONMENT - Climate change adaptation - Climate change mitigation - Energy ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Pollution of air (VOC) - Substances of (very high) concern - Pollution of water and of living organisms...** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Water withdrawal / consumption - Water - Habitat degradation ** ✔ ✔ - Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss and impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems - Biodiversity loss drivers - pollution ** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Resource inflow - Waste ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ SOCIAL Own workforce - Occupational health and safety - Social dialogue, freedom of association, collective bargaining - Diversity ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Workers in value chain - Occupational health and safety - Forced or child labour ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Personal safety of consumers and/or end users ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ GOVERNANCE - Corporate culture - Speak up culture - Management of relationships with suppliers - Corruption and bribery ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ COMPANY SPECIFIC - Cybersecurity ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ * For detailed IROs description, see respective topical ESRS; ** material impact related to kerosene production. Not Applicable 6.1.1.4 ​IRO: Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.4.1 ​ IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs All CSRD proposed items were assessed through individual analysis at the lowest granularity (IROs) level. Some company specific potential topics were added to this assessment universe, such as cybersecurity. For most environmental subtopics, differentiated assessments were performed across the value chain: own operations / upstream / downstream. To the extent such data is available and accurate enough, quantitative scoring substantiation was systematically preferred to qualitative judgement. The assessment was documented. Concerned functions or roadmaps were systematically involved in the process for the topics they are respectively in charge of, as presented in the governance section. Accordingly, topic impact assessment is aligned with the Company Due Diligence process step related to the identification of impacts, which are then tackled by respective concerned functions or roadmaps. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 147"
"Impact materiality, i.e. actual or potential impacts on people and the environment. The Company evaluated the actual or potential impact of its activities on environment and people - e.g. employees, end users, and local communities. Scoring was established taking into account the severity (scale, scope, remediability - for negative impacts -) and likelihood of such impact and using predefined scoring grids. Materiality threshold was determined considering the associated “severity vs. likelihood” combinations deemed relevant to reflect materiality and to support topic prioritisation. For topics related to potential impacts on people, a high severity score overruled a low score of likelihood. All Company activities and sites are deemed to be considered in this analysis, with a focus on manufacturing of commercial aircraft activity, also taking into account the presumed great commonality of sustainability impact given the similarities in materials used and manufacturing process for helicopters, military aircraft, and satellites. The full value chain was considered, with again a focus on the impact related to the use of commercial aircraft as the magnitude of related impact was deemed higher given the nature and frequency of operations in the respective product lifetimes. This analysis also relied on an understanding of the Company’s own operations, supply chain, or other business relationships as the presence and severity of potential or actual adverse impacts is influenced by various factors, such as: the type of industry, products/services, operations and their associated inherent risks; the country and operating context, considering for instance publicly available statistics and indices or the existence of related environmental or social regulations or relevant voluntary standards and associated thresholds eventually or other relevant scientific sources of information (e.g. planet boundaries, environmental exposure atlas...). Assessment scores were substantiated by quantified data as much as possible, using a number of sources of information. These include internal information such as: -​ Life Cycle Analysis, information from topical experts, related internal metrics performance (past or ongoing impacts); -​ outputs from third party due diligence, internal control reports, or information collected during visits to supplier sites; -​ elements from findings and alerts from, for example, desktop Supplier Sustainability Maturity Assessments, onsite assessments (including social assessments) or from the grievance mechanism; -​ inputs obtained as part of stakeholder engagement (see “– 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders”); as well as external information such as topical and sectoral benchmarks or public reports, and regulatory thresholds. Impact materiality assessment was also supported by the engagement with stakeholders, consistently with the overall stakeholder engagement approach presented in the dedicated disclosure requirement. This includes direct consultation of internal and external experts, information collected from stakeholders through the continuous stakeholder engagement, and from affected stakeholders or their relevant proxies (eg. employees through surveys, content of social dialogue, customers feedback...). The consideration of regulatory thresholds, or topical standards or reference frameworks were also deemed to represent ‘silent’ stakeholders’ interests (e.g. nature). Impact on the Company or financial materiality The potential impact of sustainability-related topics on the Company’s financial performance was assessed by combining -1- a screening and reassignment of the top company risks and opportunities extracted from the company’s enterprise risk management (“ERM”) system to sustainability subtopics assessed following ERM methods and -2- an exhaustive screening of the CSRD-proposed list of subtopics, for which both the associated financial impact level and its likelihood were reassessed. A threshold corresponding to a percentage of EBIT was used, aligned with the relevance threshold for financial statements, alongside equivalent qualitative impact types (e.g. Brand, Compliance etc.). The use of climate scenarios supported the identification of connected impact and dependencies that eventually led to complementing the risk picture (e.g. climate technology risk and energy ecosystem risk). More generally the scrutiny of the Company's business and operating model interdependencies with each sub-topic including through exchanges with topical experts supported the above-mentioned screening. Double materiality assessment was formally presented to and endorsed by the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. It also supports Internal Control ́s prioritisation of work. Sustainability risks and opportunities are integrated into the ERM system and processes, including their identification, assessment and management. Consequently, they are part of the Company risk picture and addressed as defined by the overall process (see “– Corporate Governance – 3.2 Enterprise Risk Management System”). Impacts are covered by the Company Due Diligence process, as presented in the related disclosure requirements. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 148"
"In 2024, the Company updated its double-materiality assessment and refined its methodology to align it with CSRD requirements, as described hereinabove. As recommended in the non-binding Implementation Guidelines for Materiality Assessment, the Company intends to confirm or review (and update) its material matters once a year by taking into account: whether or not material changes in the Company's organisational and operational structure occurred, whether or not external factors occurred in the reporting year, and/or whether or not substantial new information was obtained as the Company progresses in its understanding of topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities. Depending on the significance of these events and developments, the Company would either review the existing DMA or perform a full-scale DMA to ensure the material sustainability matters are properly reported. The 2025 review process is likely to include a benchmark analysis derived from first CSRD reports from other European companies. Complementary disclosure requirements for specific topical ESRS on the description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: E1 Climate change The Company performed an advanced climate impact and risk assessment. This included the consideration of an analysis of GHG emissions from own operations, a screening of all Scope 3 categories, that identified the usage of Airbus products (i.e. Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products) as representing a significant proportion of total emissions. Share of Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products emission in total emissions >90% The Company also identified climate related risks following a TCFD-aligned approach, that included a screening of its sites and assets potential vulnerabilities to climate hazards (see “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”. Such analyses considered time horizons, assumptions and scenarios (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)“). See “– 6.2.2 E1 - Climate Change” chapter for full description. E2 Pollution IRO identification processes considered all business operations and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company has screened the annual declarations made by its sites to local authorities in the context of the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) regulation. Number of facilities exceeding the 100 tonnes threshold for VOC emissions listed in the E-PRTR regulation Annex II. 1 (Hamburg) Impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, such as the one in relation with kerosene production. For SOC/SOVHC, risks and opportunities have also been assessed using the register of the Company’s top company risks, according to the ERM process. This risk notably applies to aircraft manufacturing and is therefore connected to all sites with such industrial operations and handling chemicals. The materiality assessment did not involve direct consultations with affected communities. E3 Water and marine resources IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites from which environmental data is collected (see “– 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)” and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company analysed current and projected local water stress levels to understand where the Company’s activities have the greatest impact on water resources and where risks of business disruption linked to restrictions on the use of water are the most significant. This analysis is based inter alia on the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas; this analysis was last updated with the August 2023 update of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (version 4.0), using the “baseline” data as well as the 2030 scenarios. This analysis allowed to identify that the Company operates facilities located in high or extremely high water stress areas in Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Morocco, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia, UK, US. It includes sites from Commercial Aircraft, Airbus Helicopters and Airbus Defence and Space. As for ESRS E2, impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. The materiality assessment did not involve consultations with affected communities. E4 Biodiversity The Company is still progressing its understanding of the impact of its activities and those of its value chain on biodiversity. IRO identification was informed by the IPBES report's findings that there are five significant drivers of biodiversity loss: changing use of sea and lands, direct exploitation of organisms, Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 149"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 2(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 157"
"paragraphs 40 to 43 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 44 Indicators number 1 and 2 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 5(1), 6 and 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 55 Indicators number 3 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 56 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a) ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk. Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraph 34; Template 2:Banking book -Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property - Energy efficiency of the collateral Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities paragraph 69 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 Indicator number 8 Table #1 of Annex 1 Indicator number 2 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 1 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 3 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) (Air pollution - VOC) ESRS E3-1 Water and marine Indicator number 7 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 158"
"resources paragraph 9 ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 Indicator number 8 Table 2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) Indicator number 6.2 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 Indicator number 6.1 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i Indicator number 7 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) Indicator number 10 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) Indicator number 14 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24(b) Indicator number 11 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) Indicator number 15 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) Indicator number 13 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 Indicator number 9 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) (Radioactive waste - Not material) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 159"
"ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labour paragraph 14 (f) Indicator number 13 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g) Indicator number 12 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 20 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S1-1 processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 Indicator number 11 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 Indicator number 1 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-3 grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) Indicator number 5 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work- related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) Indicator number 2 Table #3 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) Indicator number 3 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) Indicator number 12 Table #1 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) Indicator number 8 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) Indicator number 7 Table #3 of Annex I Not material Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 160"
"ESRS S4-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD guidelines paragraph 17 Indicator number 10 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) ESRS S4-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 35 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) ESRS G1-1 United Nations Convention against Corruption paragraph 10 (b) Indicator number 15 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS G1-1 Protection of whistle- blowers paragraph 10 (d) Indicator number 6 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS G1-4 Fines for violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws paragraph 24 (a) Indicator number 17 Table #3 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) ESRS G1-4 Standards of anti- corruption and anti- bribery paragraph 24 (b) Indicator number 16 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) (1) Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector (Sustainable Finance Disclosures Regulation) (OJ L 317, 9.12.2019, p. 1). (2) Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (Capital Requirements Regulation “CRR”) (OJ L 176,27.6.2013, p. 1). (3) Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/17/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (OJ L 171, 29.6.2016, p. 1). (4) Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 2021 establishing the framework for achieving climate neutrality and amending Regulations (EC) No 401/2009 and (EU) 2018/1999 (‘European Climate Law’) (OJ L 243, 9.7.2021, p. 1). (5) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the explanation in the benchmark statement of how environmental, social and governance factors are reflected in each benchmark provided and published (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 1). (6) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 of 30 November 2022 amending the implementing technical standards laid down in Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/637 as regards the disclosure of environmental, social and governance risks (OJ L 324,19.12.2022, p.1.). (7) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards minimum standards for EU Climate Transition Benchmarks and EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 17). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 162"
"6.2 ​Environmental information 6.2.1 ​ Policies Environmental policy The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company's guiding principles, vision, mission, and associated initiatives relating to environmental sustainability. This policy applies to the Company’s own operations, therefore including to affiliates where the Company owns more than half of the voting rights or has the right to appoint the majority of the Board directors. It also covers the Company’s employees and contractors while at its sites or at work under its responsibility. The policy acknowledges that our planet is facing substantial challenges such as climate change, water, soil and air pollution, resource scarcity and loss of biodiversity. It mandates the development of products and services that minimise environmental impacts, particularly addressing climate change, pollution, and resource use. To enable such an ambition, the Company has set a number of environmental targets, as presented in the respective ESRS. They relate both to the Company's own operations (e.g. GHG emissions, from both stationary sources and mobile sources - including flight test and logistics -, energy - including the use of energy sources -, water, waste management, VOC) and its value chain (e.g. GHG emissions of sold products) and cover material impacts. Compliance with applicable environmental regulations and maintaining the ISO 14001:2015 Certified Environmental Management System (EMS) are integral components of the Company's commitment to its environmental stewardship. The Company’s environmental strategy is implemented operationally by dedicated multifunctional teams at corporate and/or divisional level. These cover topics such as industrial and site impact, product operation, supply chain and substances. In addition, the Company’s ISO 14001 certified EMS notably applies the standard recommendations for pollution control audits, training, risk assessment and identification, implementation of risk prevention procedures (emergency plans, simulation exercises). For example, sites shall conduct an analysis of environmental aspects and impacts at least every three years, as well as each time a material change in operations occurs, also in connection with the Company’s ERM process. While the EMS sets requirements, actual deployment, concrete means and measures are managed at site level and adapted to the nature of a site’s industrial activities and to applicable regulations. For instance, in Toulouse and linked to flight test activities, concerned employees systematically follow dedicated training sessions, including on instructions for fuel handling or on procedures to follow in case of an incident. Also, each year, more than five spill-related emergency situations (e.g. a kerosene leak or a fire-fighting water spill) are conducted to test defined emergency plans. At least one emergency situation is performed in coordination with local authorities. EMS certification coverage Unit 2024 % employees covered by ISO 14001 certified EMS % 90% In addition, an increasing number of sites, including for instance in Spanish sites and Marignane, are certified ISO 50001:2018 for energy management and therefore apply embedded requirements such as running energy audits that enable the identification of improvements or the deployment of related training for concerned employees. The policy is based on principles including integrity, innovation, sustainability, and engaging stakeholders throughout the value chain that aim to inform all decisions, actions and practices in the scope of the Company’s environmental roadmap. The Company commits to complying with its obligations under environmental regulations and standards, minimising environmental impacts through responsible decision-making, leveraging advanced technologies for continual improvement, and integrating environmental, societal, and economic considerations into its business strategy. The policy places significant emphasis on stakeholder collaboration, engaging with suppliers and the aerospace sector to encourage sustainable practices and promote responsible environmental management within the supply chain. A lifecycle perspective is adopted, considering environmental impacts - including GHG and air emissions, pollution, water, circularity, and other dimensions - from product design to end-of-life. The Company invests in lifecycle assessments (LCA) for environmental impact accounting associated with a specific product, in accordance with the requirements specified in the ISO 14040 standard. LCA studies have been finalised for all commercial aircraft products delivered in 2024. In addition, the Company is deploying frameworks enabling design choices to reduce the footprint of operations, projects and products and optimise aspects such as product end-of-life management and critical raw materials usage. For instance, environmental assessments are being used to assist the research and technology decision-making processes related to commercial aircraft activities. The Defence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 163"
"and Space Division also uses LCA as part of the development of the Sentinel satellites that are built for the European Space Agency. The monitoring process within Airbus Environmental Policy involves several key components: -​ compliance monitoring of the Company’s adherence to its obligations under environmental laws, regulations, and standards; -​ performance evaluation committed to the continuous improvement of environmental reporting and performance evaluation processes; -​ stakeholder engagement to strengthen cooperation and communication with both internal and external stakeholders, for instance with suppliers, customers, industry bodies, -​ and risk management to anticipate legislative changes and effectively manage compliance risks to maintain robust environmental standards. Employees’ awareness, training and competence management is another key dimension supporting the proper deployment of the policy throughout the organisation and embedded in the Company’s business management system. Under the oversight of the Human Resource function, competence gaps are identified and addressed through dedicated training schemes. The Chief Sustainability Officer is accountable for the policy. The policy development followed the related requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 Standard. It is available to all employees, and a policy statement signed by the CEO is available on the Company’s public website. Environmental operations are led by the Sustainability organisation, whose role is to guide the business on environmental matters and to set the policy and deploy, drive and improve the EMS throughout the Company. 6.2.2 ​ ESRS E1 - Climate change 6.2.2.1 ​Climate Change IROs The following IROs were identified for climate change: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change mitigation Actual negative impact The operations at the Company's facilities and the air transport sector's use of aircraft in operations lead to GHG emissions. The Company's purchased goods and services contain GHG emissions. Short-term,mid -term and long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Energy Actual negative impact Energy consumption/mix usage originating from the Company's facilities, the suppliers’ facilities and the air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation lead to GHG emissions. Short-term, mid-term and long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change adaptation Physical risk The climate adaptation risk includes the risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the acute or chronic impacts of future climate change on their industrial sites. Additionally, failure to adapt products to perform effectively under future atmospheric conditions in a timely manner, relative to the speed of these risks' onset or time horizon could lead to production disruptions or a product offering that no longer meets customer expectations. This could negatively affect financial performance. See “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change mitigation Transition risk The climate mitigation risk includes the risk that the Company or its suppliers may not meet their decarbonisation ambitions or the late availability of low emissions technology could lead to, respectively, investor mistrust or products failing to meet customer expectations. This could negatively affect financial performance. Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 164"
"2 SBM-3)” ESRS E1 Climate change Energy Risk The energy-related risk includes the risk that renewable and low carbon energy (e.g. SAF, hydrogen) may not be available in sufficient quantities in the necessary time frames. This could lead to less air travel and lower demand for aircraft or for future aircraft programmes if not suited to available energy sources, which could negatively affect financial performance. Own Operations, Downstream (Use of Products) 6.2.2.2 ​Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) In line with the Company’s purpose, “pioneering sustainable aerospace for a safe and united world”, and its aim to lead the transition of the air transport sector towards the goal set by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to reach ‘net zero carbon emissions by 2050’, the Company’s foremost ambition is to play a leading role in the decarbonisation of the aviation sector. This includes developing technologies for the next generations of commercial aircraft, and the ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. Based on the International Energy Agency (IEA) remaining global carbon budget and the share it allocates to air transport, air transport can grow at up to a certain level and meet the Paris Agreement objectives. This relies in part on technological developments to improve the fuel efficiency of air transport, in which the Company and its suppliers have a role to play. This approach also echoes “net-zero carbon emissions by 2050” ambitions from international sectoral bodies such as the ATAG, as well as the UN specialised civil aviation body, ICAO. This is consistent with the Company’s near-term target setting, covering all three scopes of emissions, and with its core product policy that focuses on developing and delivering more efficient aircraft while engaging with the energy ecosystem. The Company has set combined near-term targets to reduce its GHG emissions (please refer to “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)” for a detailed description) that are validated by the SBTi as being science-based and aligned with limiting global warming to 1.5°C for Scopes 1 and 2 and with well-below 2°C for Scope 3 relating to the use of its commercial aircraft in service (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products (Cat 11)). This is in accordance with SBTi's criteria and recommendations for near-term targets. Share of Company's Commercial business segment Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions Unit In overall Commercial business segment emissions (all scopes) % >95% In overall Company emissions (all scopes) % >90% The Company's Scope 3 Use of Sold Products CO2 intensity projections (CO2/RPK) are related to the Company's delivered commercial aircraft in a given year (2015/2035) over the entire life of service. To achieve its GHG emission targets, the Company has developed a transition plan of climate mitigation actions. The plan is structured into decarbonisation levers and sub-levers, which cover innovation in the Company’s product and service portfolio, its own operations, and in the Company’s value chain. A diverse range of factors of different climate scenarios have been considered to detect relevant environmental, societal, technology, market and policy-related developments and determine decarbonisation levers. For more details on the usage of scenarios, please refer to the “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)” hereafter. Key actions within each decarbonisation lever are detailed in the section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. The integration of the decarbonisation levers across all of the Company’s business activities, coupled with the focus on enhancing efficiency in its products, translates the objectives of the transition plan into the Company’s business model and strategy. The potential of technological levers to support the compatibility of the Company's business model with the transition to a sustainable economy and with the limiting of global warming to 1.5°C in line with the Paris Agreement and the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 are based on its experience and expertise in the field of commercial aviation in collaboration with industrial partners such as engine manufacturers. Energy and SAF related levers are informed by the sector's work on the topic as well as elements drawn from IEA scenarios and regulatory frameworks around the world. The transition plan has been approved by the Company’s Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Regular updates on the progress of this plan are presented to the Board’s ECSC. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 165"
"The Company has defined the following decarbonisation levers in order to ensure that its business model and strategy remain compatible with the transition to a sustainable economy (for more details, see “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”): Decarbonisation lever #1 - Energy efficiency (Scopes 1&2). This decarbonisation lever focuses on increasing building (stationary) energy efficiency and mobile energy efficiency. Decarbonisation lever #2 - Renewable energy (Scopes 1&2). This decarbonisation lever focuses on switching to renewable energy through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) (stationary), developing local site renewable energy generation (stationary), and uptake of SAF in its internal operations - logistics and flight tests - (mobile). Decarbonisation lever #3 - Technology improvement introduction (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on the continuous improvement of the latest generation aircraft as well as developing next generation aircraft that are more fuel efficient than current models. Decarbonisation lever #4 - SAF uptake (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on fostering the development of the SAF ecosystem, contributing to the setting of industry standards for fuels, and developing aircraft that are 100% SAF capable. Decarbonisation lever #5 - Operations improvement (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on developing the Commercial Aircraft portfolio of services aimed at supporting customers in reducing emissions arising from the usage of commercial aircraft, in collaboration with relevant actors in the air transport sector (e.g. Air Traffic Management). The last three decarbonisation levers refer to the Company’s Scope 3 use of sold products. They imply a close collaboration with many players in the aviation and energy sectors and are consistent with the aviation sector's long-term aspirational decarbonisation goal of reaching “net-zero carbon emissions” by 2050, as illustrated on the following chart. In October 2022, the aspirational objective of “net zero carbon emissions” in 2050 for international civil aviation operations was adopted by a vast majority of ICAO member states. This political commitment paves the way for the transformation of the aviation sector, ensuring a level playing field at international level and it will accelerate the development of mitigation measures such as fleet renewal, aircraft and engine technologies, alternative energy carriers such as SAF or green hydrogen, and the enhancements of the operational practices and air traffic management. The Company fully supports this international long-term aspirational goal. The Company's activities are not excluded by the EU’s Paris-aligned benchmark framework. Investing in the future The Company’s total Research and Development budget (see table below) is mainly split between - but not limited to - investments in incremental developments of the Company’s current product portfolio which is required to maintain its competitiveness, including from a fuel / CO2 efficiency perspective, as well as investment in the development of breakthrough technologies (e.g. hydrogen based systems, electric machines, energy storage and distribution) that are required for future products. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 166"
"Key figures Unit 2024 Research and development spent Bn € 3.250 Total OpEx (R&D) meeting EU Taxonomy technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation objective (also referred to as “Alignment assessment - conditional use of substances"" in section “– 6.2.7.3”) Bn € 1.440 Of which, reported as aligned (OpEx) in the EU Taxonomy report Bn € 0 Total CapEx meeting EU Taxonomy technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation objective (also referred to as “Alignment assessment - conditional use of substances"" in section “– 6.2.7.3”) Bn € 1.472 Of which, reported as aligned (CapEx) in the EU Taxonomy report Bn € 0 See “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)” EU Taxonomy. See “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)” The Commercial Aircraft business of the Company is covered by the EU Taxonomy under the activity “3.21 Manufacturing of Aircraft” of the environmental target of climate change mitigation (see “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)”). The Company has not utilised the instrument of CapEx/OpEx plans to align its economic activities with the technical screening criteria. The “Manufacturing of Aircraft” criteria includes a transition period until January 1st, 2028, after which alignment will depend on the clarification by the sector and relevant certification agencies for a fuel standard of “100% SAF” specifications and the Company's ability to certify its commercial aircraft products accordingly. As such, the Company is not able to anticipate the evolutions of the alignment of its economic activities in future years. Locked-in GHG emissions Locked-in GHG emissions - Products. For products (AR.3.(b)), the locked-in GHG emissions are considered equal to Scope 3 - Category 11, Use of sold products for the current year and future Scope 3 emissions of aircraft currently in the order book. Please refer to section “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”. Locked-in GHG emissions - Assets. Emissions from all key assets are tracked by the Company's environmental reporting. Future emissions are calculated based on local energy network assumptions and taking into account the decarbonisation levers (as described above) and the impact of industrial production evolution. Locked-in GHG emissions for these assets are calculated as the sum of yearly residual emissions until 2030, with further efforts being required for evaluating the locked-in GHG emissions until 2050. Locked-in emissions were taken into account when GHG emission reduction targets were set. For more details on how the Company plans to manage its GHG-intensive and energy intensive assets and products, refer to the “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” and “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. Tracking progress and performance Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value 2023 value YoY change 2024 vs. baseline Company (SBTi approved) ktCO2e 2030 467 -63% 2015 1,262 614 675 -9% -51% “TCO scope” (1) ktCO2e 2024 581 -2% 2023 592 524 592 -11% -11% Assumptions and (1): see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” Scopes 1&2 GHG emissions have decreased, exceeding the yearly target (see table), primarily due to five factors: a production adjustment during the year, clement weather conditions especially during winter, emission factor updates as well as savings from the increased usage of SAF and biofuels in own operations and the increased purchase of renewable electricity. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 167"
"Scope 3 GHG intensity Commercial aircraft Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value 2023 value YoY change 2024 vs. baseline Intensity SBTi approved target gCO2e/ km.pax 2035 48.0 -46% 2015 88.8 61.1 62.9 -3% -31% Number of delivered aircraft No. 766 735 4% Of which, incl. in scope 3 commercial aircraft No. 764 732 Scope: Company's commercial aircraft Assumptions: see “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” Since 2015, the improvement of commercial aircraft Scope 3 efficiency - measured through this metric - was largely supported by significant investments into new aircraft technology and designs, as well as by projected SAF uptake impact to a lower extent. Given the variable time horizons of each of the five decarbonisation pathways presented above, it is expected that the forecasted increase of SAF used by airlines in the coming decades will have a decisive impact for achieving this target by 2035. In order to be able to check how actual global penetration of SAF is consistent with its target related assumptions, the Company is developing the means to monitor actual availability and use of SAF and the resulting impact on aircraft emissions. The Company's initial approach to develop a tool that has proven insufficient and the Company is now considering alternative options. One such option is to rely on aviation industry recognised metrics being developed. For instance, IATA is maturing its analytical capability to monitor SAF consumption through direct reporting from airlines. Key figure Unit 2024 Est. annual SAF production, as per IATA report * tonnes 1 million * “Fact Sheet - Sustainable Aviation Fuels” dated Dec 9th 2024 available on IATA website For more information on the progress in implementing the transition plan, refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. 6.2.2.3 ​Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Following the TCFD recommendations, the Company has defined a range of temperature scenarios (1.5°C, well-below 2°C and >3°C) to represent different climate realities based upon the global scenarios of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (""IPCC"" - Assessment Report 6 (""AR6"")) and the International Energy Agency (""IEA""). The scenario analysis is used to identify financial and operational risks and opportunities related to climate change that may begin to impact the Company in the short-term, medium-term and long-term so that the Company can work to increase the resilience of its assets and Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 168"
"operations in order to mitigate and adapt to climate change. The short-term time horizon (“ST”, considering the current year and up to two years thereafter) focuses on the ongoing production and ramp-up plans to increase production to 75 single-aisle aircraft per month by 2027 whilst the mid-term time horizon (“MT”, around 2035) relates to the assets and activities linked to the transition period between the current and next generation of commercial aircraft products. The long-term time horizon (“LT”, around 2050) is used to anticipate future climate-related risks during the production of the next generation of products. The Company uses Shared Socio-economic Pathways (SSPs) that were developed for the latest Assessment Report (AR6) of the IPCC. SSPs are standard scenarios in climate science that describe coherent and internally consistent socio-economic futures based on drivers like population, economic growth, and technological advancement. Physical risks The Company has conducted an analysis of climate-related physical risks, considering all 28 physical climate risks or hazards indicated by the European Taxonomy for sustainable activities and the CSRD (ESRS E1). Some climate-related hazards are deemed low priority considering the sector or the geographical coverage of the Company's activities and are therefore excluded from the analysis. Nevertheless, the Company is continuously reviewing its exposure to these hazards and their prioritisation. The analysis takes into account the Company's assets and business activities over the previously described medium-term and long-term time horizons as the most relevant for this assessment, comparing projected evolutions compared to a baseline defined as the average of values between 1985 and 2014. The short term time horizon was considered not relevant for this assessment as short term climate related hazards are typically covered through business continuity plans on site level (mostly EHS related) and insurance policies. The most relevant scenario for these projections is the ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"", based on IPCC Scenarios AR6 SSP3-7.0 / SSP5-8.5 and ensures that physical climate risk analysis results align with the latest state of climate science. This scenario represents the highest emissions among all SSPs and, according to the best estimate of the IPCC, leads to global warming of 4.4°C by the end of the century. The physical risks in this scenario are the most pronounced, making it a ""worst-case"" scenario for physical hazards. It assumes current levels of CO2 emissions and greenhouse gases will almost double by 2050. The world economy grows rapidly, but this growth is driven by fossil fuel exploitation and very energy-intensive lifestyles. The SSP5-8.5 scenario describes a future characterised by continued industrialisation and economic growth, with global markets becoming increasingly integrated and global mobility increasing. The total final energy demand rises steeply, and no additional climate policy measures are assumed. The scenario particularly explores the limits to adaptation and the climate physical risks that may impact the Company’s operations and its value chain. Projections of relevant climate parameters, such as temperature, wind speed, and precipitation are used to identify climate hazards. Each hazard is clearly defined within the risk analysis and supplemented with climate parameters used to identify the hazard. Some hazards, such as “changing wind patterns” and cyclones, are assessed based on areas where they are known to occur (local identification) rather than climate projections as no scientific consensus has been reached regarding their evolution in terms of frequency and geography. Scientifically-based thresholds are defined for all hazards to determine the point at which they are severe or frequent enough to cause material damage. The assessment results indicate that a majority of the Company's locations may be subject to high or very high risks by 2050, particularly regarding ""heat stress"" and ""water stress"". The Company has implemented a comprehensive approach to analysing climate change-related physical risks and consists of two main parts. Firstly, a desktop analysis has been conducted for 355 locations of the Company and a preliminary vulnerability assessment for about 30,000 supplier locations. This involves a location-specific analysis based on geo-coordinates and information about the economic activities at each location to generate site-specific climate projections. These projections are then compared with predefined, scientifically-based thresholds for each hazard. Depending on the hazard, the magnitude, duration, likelihood, or extent is used to assess exposure, as described under ESRS E1 AR 11 (a). The biggest limitation in the scenario analysis is the current generation of climate models' inability to simulate all 28 hazards. Consequently, the analysis for certain hazards, including solifluction, land subsidence, thawing of permafrost, glacial lake outburst, saltwater intrusion, landslide, and coastal erosion, relies on historical data rather than climate projections. Secondly, the desktop analysis is complemented by an on-site analysis to further refine the identified risk factors. This involves assessing the vulnerability of the Company’s business activities, existing assets and industrial set up at each location to each hazard and determining whether the occurrence of each hazard would negatively and significantly impact business operations. A physical gross risk for a location is identified if it is both exposed to a site-specific hazard and the business activity is vulnerable to this hazard. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 169"
"Transition risks The transition events were examined for their impact on the scenario and their business relevance for the Company. If both factors were present, these events were subjected to further analysis to determine their short-, medium-, and long-term impacts. The three time horizons described at the beginning of this section are applied to the identification of transition risks. The climate-related transition risks and opportunities identification process involves defining transition events according to categories such as Environment, Technology, Social, Political, and Economic based on specific scenarios and time horizons. The transition risks and opportunities are identified based on the transition events’ severity on business activities with function representatives, and quantified according to likelihood, magnitude and duration of the transition events. The results of this analysis show that transition events are expected to primarily impact business activities rather than the Company’s assets, as detailed in the risk table in the Resilience Analysis section below. As mentioned above, the scenarios chosen by the Company were carefully aligned with current scientific findings to ensure their relevance and accuracy in representing possible climate-related outcomes. The analysis of climate change-related transition risks and opportunities relied on the Net Zero Emissions scenario of the International Energy Agency (IEA), as described in the latest World Energy Outlook (WEO) of 2023 and the associated data tables. Additional insights were drawn from previous IEA special reports on this scenario. The scenario selected is the “Aggressive mitigation - Limiting warming to 1.5°C”, based on the IPCC Assessment Report 6 (AR6) Scenario Shared Socioeconomic Pathway (SSP) 1-1.9 and the Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE) by the IEA. This scenario reflects the ambition of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (Paris Agreement) and is a very ambitious scenario that limits global warming to 1.5 °C by the end of the century. In this scenario the global energy sector achieves net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050 and the world reaches the objective of the Paris Agreement. Developed countries (e.g. including those within the European Union) accelerate in decarbonisation. Societies adopt practices to enable the required levels of reduction of emissions, including increasing investment in and development of technologies that could reduce emissions of the transport sector in developed countries and limit emissions growth in developing countries. Policies to decarbonise are introduced immediately (2020s), with these policies diverging across sectors and regions and differing in both the timing of their deployment and their reach. Mitigation strategies implemented worldwide and across sectors include: ●​ improvements in energy efficiency are implemented (however additional mitigation technologies for aviation are required); ●​ transitioning from fossil-based energy to very low or zero-carbon sources including hydrogen and high density biofuels for aviation; ●​ carbon capture utilisation and storage is used in remaining fossil-fuels facilities; ●​ both nature- and technology-based Carbon Dioxide Removals (“CDR”) are deployed to the levels required to neutralise global residual GHG emissions; and ●​ countries implement measures towards restricting demand for transport services while supporting the shift to more energy efficient and low carbon intensive products and transport modes. Severe weather events are more frequent, but the world has avoided the worst consequences of climate change. The 1.5°C scenario used during this analysis was analysed using sector-specific data alongside comprehensive macroeconomic variables and price metrics to support the identification of transition events and exposure assessment. Furthermore, the long term time horizon (2050) aligns with the climate-related policy stated objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, as well as with the time horizon of relevant technical scenarios used, such as IEA scenarios described below. This detailed information enabled a thorough and insightful scenario analysis which resulted in the identification of projected risks on the Company's business. This analysis informed the double materiality assessment process described under “– 6.1.1.4 IRO: Impact, risk and opportunity management”. In 2024, the Company integrated a climate scenario analysis to predict and prepare for future conditions. This analysis includes several assumptions such as the transition to a lower-carbon economy, which is expected to influence macroeconomic trends, energy consumption patterns, and the adoption of new technologies. The 1.5°C scenario from the IEA's World Energy Outlook (WEO) includes critical assumptions about global energy demand, carbon pricing, and the pace of technological innovations required to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. Key assumptions are described in more detail in the scenario description above. The global energy and climate model used by the Company integrates innovative and emerging technologies, tracking their maturity and expected market introduction. Transition risks and opportunities are primarily linked to the air transport sector. Efficiency improvements, such as optimised aircraft designs, mass reduction, and propulsion system improvements, offer some mitigation potential. However, additional CO2 emissions mitigation technologies, including high energy density biofuels, low-emission hydrogen, and synthetic fuels, will be required for aviation. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 170"
"Primary emission sources were reviewed to identify risk areas. A critical analysis of the sector was conducted, focusing on technological advancements and other relevant factors to identify all assets and business activities requiring significant effort to be compatible with a transition to a climate-neutral economy. As a result, it has become evident that business activities such as the design and manufacturing of commercial aircraft are heavily reliant on the development of technological levers and alternative energy pathways to achieve this compatibility. Carbon dioxide removal (CDR) is used to accelerate decarbonisation but is kept to a minimum in the scenarios as it is only applicable to residual emissions and is broadly in line with sustainable levels of bioenergy production for nature-based solutions.Technology-based CDR solutions are not yet mature enough to be used and deployed at scale. As such, the use of CDR in the scenarios is based on relevant global databases including IEA World Energy outlook, IEA Net Zero 2050, ATAG “Fly Net Zero 2050” and Behavioural change NZE AR6 WG3. Resilience analysis Based on the results of the previously described climate-related physical and transition risk assessment, the Company has started analysing the resilience of its business activities in 2023, including an assessment of key elements of the upstream and downstream value chain. The full resilience analysis is expected to be completed by 2027. The critical assumptions about how the transition to a lower-carbon and resilient economy will affect the Company's surrounding macroeconomic trends, energy consumption and mix, and technology deployment are detailed in the description of climate scenarios considered under the above climate-related physical risk and transition risk sections. The resilience analysis relies on the previously described climate risk analysis (physical and transition), including the time horizons mentioned in the first paragraph of “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”. The resilience analysis includes a review of the Company’s own business activities and extends to both upstream and downstream segments of the value chain, focusing on identifying vulnerabilities and strengths in the Company's strategy and business model concerning climate-related physical and transition risks. With the 1.5°C scenario for transition risk and the >3°C scenario for the physical risk analysis, the Company covers both extremes of climate risks, thus covering a broad spectrum of risks. As detailed above, the scope of the resilience analysis is the same as the climate risk assessment; it includes an assessment of operations, supply chain dependencies, and customer interactions to ensure a holistic understanding of potential impacts for all of the Company’s business activities. For each remaining identified material physical and transition risks, the existing and potential adaptation measures that contribute to climate resilience are reviewed, resulting in an overall risk picture, including those residual risks where mitigation measures are insufficient to eliminate the risks entirely. The conducted analysis has identified activities related to the transition of the air transport sector as high-risk business activities, with uncertainties including the pace of regulatory changes, technological advancements, and market acceptance of low-carbon solutions. This assessment of physical risks for the upstream value chain is still being conducted and therefore is not yet included in these results. The outcomes to date of the physical and transition risk assessments are summarised in the hereafter tables, as well as how these risks are managed to ensure the resilience of the Company's assets and activities. As mentioned previously, the resilience analysis is still ongoing and is expected to be completed in 2027. Climate-related risks The results of the Company’s climate scenario analysis has led to the identification of the following main risks: ●​ Transition - Technology: Emergence of disruptive technologies from competition Delivering on existing commitments and potential future requirements to mitigate climate impacts will require significant investments in new technologies for the commercial aircraft sector, making the delivery of low-emission technologies a significant marker of future competitiveness. A competitor or new market participant could have access to technological developments unavailable to the Company that offer significantly lower emissions at a faster pace than the Company and its partners, resulting in a loss of market share and competitiveness with resulting reduced revenue. The imperative for the Company and its partners to develop new technologies faster than other actors in the market will require substantial research and technology (R&T) and research and development investments. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 171"
"●​ Transition - Market: Low availability of renewable and low-carbon energy The Company has identified risks linked to the availability and affordability of renewable and low-carbon energy. First, there is the risk of low volumes in absolute terms, due to insufficient investments in renewable or low-carbon energy (including through the sustainable transformation of available biomass). Second, there is the risk that even if total volumes are approaching sufficiency in absolute terms, the aviation sector is unable to access sufficient volumes, leading to a risk of a slower than expected substitution of fossil fuel energy and low uptake of the new solutions and products to be developed by the Company, and resulting in lower or longer returns on invested R&D. ●​ Transition - Market: Impact of market measures and their development on demand for the Company’s products Accommodating new types of aircraft that respond to the aviation sector’s decarbonisation objectives requires an ecosystem that is ready. For instance, the development of future products based on hydrogen or other alternative propulsive technology concepts will require significant investments in both products and supporting infrastructure, which could directly impact the operating costs of such a product. Consequently, the absence of measures to stimulate robust hydrogen, synthetic fuels and biofuels supply infrastructure and adapted procedures to ensure efficiency and safety of operations, could mean that the ecosystem will be unable to accommodate the Company’s future products, notably resulting in significant development costs incurred and a risk of compromising the investments made if customers are unable or unwilling to purchase products that cannot be widely operated within the available infrastructure and procedures. Moreover, the competitiveness of this next generation product will also strongly depend, among other factors, on the evolution of the price of CO2 emissions. A high price on CO2 may impact the demand for aircraft relative to competitors' portfolios and could result in the loss of market share for the Company relative to its competitors. The Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially affected if the Company does not, at each step of development of its future products, account for market expectations while ensuring its products stay affordable for customers and competitive with respect to competitors’ portfolios. ●​ Transition - Policy and legal: Climate-related regulations and restrictions - divergence in regulatory framework Aviation and aerospace are complex industries, with long product development cycles and where change takes a long time to be implemented. A rapid evolution of climate related policies (such as the EU zero-pollution communications) and regulatory frameworks (CO2 standards, sustainable finance, emissions trading systems, aircraft operation restrictions, among others) could generate fast-changing requirements and could obstruct new product development pathways. In particular for aviation, as it is a global industry, policies and regulations implemented at national or regional rather than international level, or these evolving at a different speed depending on the region, could result in a negative impact on the competitive conditions for manufacturers and aircraft operators. This could result in a loss of competitiveness for the Company and reduced demand for its products. ●​ Transition - Reputation: Change in behaviours, perceptions and societal expectations Reputational risks could be divided into several categories. Firstly, there is a risk that negative perceptions about the Company’s environmental performance could be used as key decision-making criteria for consumers, investors, or even new talents. Secondly, there is a risk that the Company’s reputation could be damaged by growing societal concerns about the climate change impact of aviation or by the lack of transparency on progress made to address climate-related issues. As an example, the Company disclosed its ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. If the ambition is perceived as unattainable or if the Company is not able to deliver on its ambition, this could result in reputational damage leading to less investment, loss of revenues and reduced attractiveness. A similar situation could occur if the Company’s environmental performance is not on par with its expressed ambition. ●​ Physical - Acute: Extreme weather events may impact the Company's products and operations The foreseen consequences of climate change include more frequent extreme weather events, such as drought, dust storms, extreme temperatures, extreme winds, flood, hail storms, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, cyclones and wildfires. These could negatively impact the Company’s products and its operations (including but not limited to route delays and safe aircraft operations), land assets and infrastructure as well as employees' safety (and people's safety generally). The above consequences and impacts may result in production or other operational disruptions leading to lost revenues, reduced profits, and losses. This could result in the need for additional modifications to the Company's products in order to meet more stringent safety needs, as well as requiring changes to industrial operations and procurement strategy, leading to increased operational and production costs and the consequential costs of adapting the Company’s insurance coverage. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 172"
"●​ Physical - Chronic: Consequences of long-term changing weather patterns may cause increase of infrastructure and operations costs, reduced labour productivity, loss of assets value and negatively impact employee’s health The foreseen consequences of climate change include long-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g., change in precipitation patterns, sustained higher temperatures, flooding, water stress or chronic heat waves). Such changes may cause an accelerated degradation of the Company’s industrial infrastructure and assets (buildings, tools, hardware), may reduce the availability of operational resources and may interrupt logistics flows, therefore impacting the Company’s manufacturing activities. In addition, the change in environmental conditions could also negatively impact the performance of products in operation and negatively impact the health and safety of the Company’s employees. This may result in the need for additional modifications to the Company’s products, as well as to industrial operations and procurement strategy, leading to increased costs and the adaptation of the Company’s insurance coverage. Based on a qualitative analysis, the Company has estimated the probability of risk materialisation. It has also performed a preliminary internal assessment, using data from the Company's ERM system, as to which climate-related risks may involve the most significant financial impacts in the future. The results are displayed in the following table. Climate scenario / time horizon(s) where risk likelihood is considered medium or high, based on Company's qualitative analysis Potential financial impacts before mitigation Key associated actions presented in the Company’s transition plan RISKS 1.5°C >3°C Transition - Technology ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ - Supporting fleet renewal by delivering its latest generation aircraft - Developing and deploying SAF, with the ambition for all aircraft types to be capable of flying with up to 100% SAF by 2030 - Investing in technologies to reduce product emissions, including hydrogen - Investing in smart air traffic management (ATM) solutions and optimised operations - Deploy local adaptation measures following threats and vulnerabilities assessment. - Embed climate change in industrial strategy - Engage R&D activities including with certification authorities on new climate model impacts on products Transition - Market (Energy) ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ Transition - Market (Demand) ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ Transition - Policy and legal ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Not assessed Transition - Reputation ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Not assessed Physical - Acute ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ++ Physical - Chronic ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ++ ▶ ▶ ▶ : ST - ▶ ▶ ▶ : MT - ▶ ▶ ▶ : LT As mentioned previously, the resilience analysis is still ongoing but previously shared information under section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” and to the above mentioned risk management mitigation measures provide a first understanding of the Company's ability to adapt its strategy and business model to climate change. Additionally, the section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)” provides further information on the adaptation actions taken by the Company to reinforce its resilience. More precisely, with regards to product resilience in the context of climate change, aircraft products are sensitive to weather phenomena during their operation phase. While the certified flight envelopes of the Company’s products offer some margin compared to relevant bad atmospheric conditions defined by certification authorities, the adaptation of aircraft design and operation to the changing climate is an important activity to be anticipated, in particular given the long lead time associated with aircraft development and operation. With regards to its defence product portfolio, the Company is collaborating with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (“NATO”) and other defence industry players and organisations (in the so-called NATO Study Group 291) with the objective of developing recommendations on ensuring allied capabilities adaptation in the context of climate change. This is supported by inputs from the NATO Climate and Defence Task Force led by the Conference of National Armaments Directors (CNAD) the Company is also part of, together with the allied governments and other defence industry players. This collaboration aims at assessing, elaborating and deploying solutions to ensure technical capabilities still enable operational effectiveness in facing changing climatic conditions. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 173"
"The climate-related assumptions in the climate scenarios described above were also used in the Company's Financial Statements. 6.2.2.4 ​Policies (E1-2) The Airbus Environmental Policy described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies” addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy deployment. Climate change adaptation is not explicitly mentioned in the policy but is included in the Company’s EMS and business continuity activities. For further detail on the content of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section “– 6.2.1 Policies”. 6.2.2.5 ​Actions and resources (E1-3) Climate mitigation and adaptation-related actions are coordinated by the Sustainability Organisation under the leadership of the Chief Sustainability Officer, which includes multifunctional and cross-divisional teams on CO2 and Energy, as well as a dedicated organisation for SAF. Annual sustainability budgets are allocated to each function to implement said actions. The emissions reduction estimates presented in the tables below are indicative and represent the Company’s best view on how it intends to reach its targets, based on current assumptions, modelling (including effects of increasing production output) and portfolio of projects reducing CO2 emissions and offsetting business growth. They may be refined over time as forecast techniques may improve and the portfolio of decarbonisation projects may be revised or re-prioritised to capture new opportunities or adapt to changes in market conditions. The Company has not identified any dependencies on the availability and allocation of resources for the implementation of the below actions unless otherwise stipulated. MITIGATION The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “– 6.2.2.6 Energy consumption and Mix (E1-5)” and “– 6.2.2.7 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”). Decarbonisation lever #1 - Scopes 1 & 2 - Energy efficiency The Company is committed to enhancing energy efficiency for its buildings and industrial processes as part of its climate change action plan. This initiative, which encompasses improvements in lighting, insulation, and combined heat and power (CHP) optimisation, is on-going and planned to be further implemented company-wide by 2030. Lever #1 - Scope 1&2 - Energy efficiency of stationary assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -73 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 (incl. surface evolution, energy efficiency and weather impact) ktCO2e -92 In addition to its efforts regarding the energy efficiency of sites, the Company has outlined a strategic initiative focused on enhancing mobile energy efficiency, primarily driven by the introduction of three new vessels, with rigid sails technology, and its Beluga fleet miscellaneous efficiency improvement projects. Lever #1 - Scope 1&2 - Energy efficiency of mobile assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -53 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -73 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 174"
"Decarbonisation lever #2 - Scopes 1 & 2 - Renewable energy The Company has implemented a comprehensive plan for renewable and low carbon electricity contracting aimed at addressing Scopes 1 and 2 decarbonisation targets over the period 2015-2030. The primary focus is on Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), which are expected to play a significant role in achieving these goals while the rest of emissions will be covered by REC & GoOs. This Company-wide action has a time horizon set until 2030. The success of the action is dependent on the availability of a direct decarbonised energy supply. This dependency underscores the importance of securing reliable and sustainable energy sources to meet the decarbonisation targets. In addition to PPAs, the Company is committed to the implementation of local site renewable energy generation. Several projects are currently under study and development, focusing on photovoltaic systems, biomass, heat pumps, and other renewable technologies. This action has a time horizon set until 2030. Lever #2 - Scope 1&2 - Renewable and low carbon energy source for stationary assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -125 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -447 The Company is committed to increasing the use of SAF in its relevant internal operations as part of its climate action strategy. This initiative is planned to be implemented by 2030. Lever #2 - Scope 1&2 - Energy decarbonisation of energy mobile assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -78 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -37 Decarbonisation lever #3 - Scope 3 Use of Sold products - Technology improvement Introduction Delivering latest generation aircraft. Airlines renewing their in-service fleet offers immediate potential for aviation decarbonisation, as reflected in the figures below. Lever #3 - Scope 3 USP - Fleet renewal - Target enablers / contributors Unit Current proportion of previous generation aircraft in global commercial aircraft fleet % About 66% Estimated latest generation aircraft efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % About 25% Estimated A350 and A330neo efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 25% Estimated A320neo family efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 20% Estimated A220 efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 25% Continuous technological improvement. Additionally, the Company consistently works to improve the efficiency of its aircraft, through new aerostructure designs, advanced materials, upgraded systems, and more fuel-efficient engines, aiming to reduce CO2, NOx, and noise emissions in operations. The scope of this action is within the Commercial Aircraft business, with a time horizon covering and lasting beyond the 2035 horizon of the related target. A milestone was reached in 2024, with the certification of the A321XLR obtained in August and its commercial entry into service in October. The A321XLR offers the opportunity to longer-range routes for the single-aisle aircraft family, leveraging the platform’s greater fuel efficiency and hence CO2 efficiency when compared to a bigger widebody aircraft. Next generation aircraft, supporting the sector's decarbonisation ambition beyond the Company's target horizon. The Company is investing in technologies aimed at reducing emissions for the next generation of products. In particular, Commercial Aircraft is preparing next-generation single-aisle aircraft technologies, focusing on innovations for airframes and engines. One significant initiative is the ""wing of tomorrow"" programme, which has successfully delivered a full-size wing prototype incorporating lighter composite components and a folding wing tip. This programme integrates over 100 different components and manufacturing technologies, validating key automation targets. In collaboration with the European Clean Sky 2 and Clean Aviation programmes, the Company is researching new efficiency-enhancing technologies, such as semi-morphing wings, dynamic winglets, and innovative flight controls, as tested on a C295 transport aircraft. On the engine side, the Company supports engine manufacturers in adapting and integrating their latest innovations to meet aircraft needs. The Company also considers hydrogen as a promising technology for reducing aviation’s climate impact. It has the ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. The Company believes fuel cell technology to be the most promising to fulfil this ambition, which would significantly reduce emissions when compared to conventional jet engine configurations. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 175"
"The scaling up of the hydrogen ecosystem is challenging and is progressing at a slower pace than previously anticipated. The scalability of fuel cell technologies towards a commercially viable product will also require more time. A commercially viable product is now expected to come later than 2035. The Company will use this additional time to further develop the performance of the fuel cell propulsion and liquid hydrogen system technologies that are expected to enable the development of the Company's first fully electric commercial aircraft, as part of its ambition to pioneer sustainable aerospace. The Company is also fostering hydrogen ecosystem readiness by collaborating with various stakeholders, including airports, airlines, and energy providers, to support the evolution of market needs with renewable and low-carbon hydrogen. In order to foster such development, the “Airbus hydrogen network” involves a number of airports and numerous energy providers and airlines as partners, while new partners are still being recruited to join on a regular basis. In July 2024 alone, two Hydrogen Hubs were launched, one in Spain and another at Gatwick airport in the UK. Key figure Unit 2024 Number of airports involved in “Airbus hydrogen network” No. 215 This comprehensive approach underscores the Company's commitment to sustainable aviation and its role in driving industry-wide decarbonisation efforts. The Company plans to continuously invest in technologies to reduce product emissions with a time horizon extending beyond the 2035 timeframe mentioned for the near-term target. Decarbonisation lever #4 - Scope 3 Use of sold products - SAF uptake The Company is actively fostering SAF ecosystems readiness and partnerships to mitigate climate change. The primary constraints for operators are the price and global production capacity of SAF, which hinder large-scale adoption. To establish a robust SAF market, it is essential to match production with demand, supported by global regulatory frameworks and incentivisation schemes. This includes implementing reporting mechanisms for consistent tracking of decarbonisation progress and using book and claim systems to simplify SAF usage and demonstrate its benefits to freight and corporate customers when needed. The Company is actively supporting the development of a regulatory framework supporting the growth of the SAF market. The Company advocates for policies that incentivise SAF production and usage, sharing industry best practices, and focusing on production levels assessment, life cycle analysis methodology, and sustainability criteria and standards harmonisation. A clear, stable, and consistent policy at both global and local levels, along with incentivisation or regulations, is essential to promote long-term investments and technology development. Lever #4 - Scope 3 USP - SAF uptake - Target enablers / contributors Unit SAF CO2 emissions reduction throughout life cycle vs. conventional kerosene % Up to >80% Current Company's aircraft portfolio SAF fuel blend capability in operations % Up to 50% End of the decade ambition for the Company's aircraft portfolio SAF fuel blend capability, including military aircraft and helicopters % Up to 100% The Company is vigilant about the potential future positive or negative impacts on the environment or people that could arise with the development on the SAF market, if uncontrolled. SAF is a fuel derived from a range of “feedstocks” (origin of carbon molecules used) made from sustainable resources and brings significant reduction of CO2 emissions throughout its life cycle when compared with conventional kerosene (see table). Eight SAF production pathways are currently certified for blending with kerosene, including processes such as hydro-processed esters and fatty acids (HEFA), alcohol-to-jet, Fischer Tropsch, or power-to-liquid. Some of them are derived from used fat, cooking oil and grease, municipal waste, agricultural and forestry waste and residues. More advanced technologies use hydrogen and carbon captured directly from the air as feedstock for SAF production. On one hand, regional SAF production, dependent on local feedstock availability, can significantly contribute to socio-economic development, particularly in developing nations. On the other hand, it is essential that other sustainability dimensions be considered to prevent potential adverse impacts, especially for those SAF production pathways that imply land use. In order to be considered a SAF, an aviation fuel needs to meet defined sustainability criteria and requirements; the Company supports the ones set out by ICAO/CORSIA and in particular aspects related to non-competition with food and water resources. It also actively supports current and future sustainability criteria via regionally or nationally recognised schemes including EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED II), Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), Low Carbon Fuel Standard in the US, Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation in the UK and ‘Renewable Fuel Units' (HBEs) in the Netherlands. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 176"
"Creating favourable conditions for the SAF market requires both global cooperation and regional initiatives. In the EU and the US, positive momentum is evident, and similar efforts are needed worldwide. Cooperative platforms like the Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative (CAAFI) in the US exemplify how stakeholders can collaborate to foster development of the market. Early adopter. As an early adopter, the Company aims to stimulate market demand through its above mentioned flight tests and internal logistics using the Beluga aircraft, addressing actual SAF market development challenges. Key figure Unit 2024 Proportion of SAF used in Company’s own operations % 18% In addition, the Company also engages with customers to assist them in using SAF in their commercial operations and better understand how SAF can be integrated in their business models. In 2024, the Company signed an agreement with airline Wizz Air including the integration of SAF on two European routes, as well as passenger surveys and joint marketing campaigns. The scope of this action is focused on Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035 and beyond. The Company is engaged in initiatives and partnerships promoting the development of SAF production and use. This also includes partnerships with airlines and producers aiming to accelerate the aviation sector’s transition to SAF. Towards a harmonised framework. As a global industry, aviation requires a harmonised and interoperable framework of standards and regulations to ensure a level playing field. The Company supports the systematic implementation of SAF policies across all states and recognises CORSIA as a reference for sustainability standards, aiding in the global sourcing of SAF. The Company also plays a leading role in cross-industry initiatives with ICAO state members, ATAG, IATA, JetZero Council (UK), and the First Movers Coalition, a partnership launched by the World Economic Forum (WEF). Regionally, the Company monitors the development of SAF-related regulations at national as well as regional levels to ensure their consistency with global standards and regulatory frameworks. For instance, in 2024, The Company contributed to the Colombian Ministry of Transportation's ""Roadmap for Sustainable Aviation Fuels in Colombia"" as a contributor to their roadmap through two studies: ""Decarbonizing Aviation in Latin America in a Sustainable Way"" and ""SAF Risks and Opportunities Workshop for Colombia"". The scope of this action is within Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. The decarbonisation lever for this action is the uptake of SAF. Aircraft capability. The Company is committed to ensure that all its aircraft platforms are up to 100% SAF capable by the end of the decade. This initiative aims to enhance the technical capability of the Company's aircraft portfolio, which is currently capable of operating with a fuel blend of up to 50% SAF. The ambition is to enable all aircraft platforms, including military aircraft and helicopters, to operate with up to 100% SAF by the end of the decade. The current 50% SAF limit ensures compatibility with the JET A/A-1 specification, allowing for a drop-in solution without modifications to aircraft or fueling infrastructure. Exceeding this limit would necessitate either modifications to adapt to a new fuel grade or the development of a purely synthetic fuel that fits within the existing specification. The Company is actively involved in two key research projects in collaboration with industry partners: VOLCAN (a collaboration with Safran, Dassault and the french ministry of transport) and ECLIF3 (a collaboration with with Rolls-Royce, the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and SAF producer Neste). These projects focus on assessing the impact of 100% SAF on engine and fuel systems, as well as measuring the benefits on emissions and fuel efficiency. The findings from these projects will support further research and technical work to achieve 100% SAF certification for commercial flights by the end of the decade. Additionally, the Company has contributed to the approval process of eight SAF blending pathways with kerosene and continues to support industry-wide standardisation efforts at ASTM International to approve future pathways. In 2024, The Company was designated as co-leader of a newly formed working group in the frame of the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG), aiming at developing technical specifications for 100% SAF. The scope of this action encompasses Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. The actions of this lever depend on the overall SAF market development, including the actions and investments of external resources. Decarbonisation lever #5 - Scope 3 Use of sold products - Operations improvement The Company is as well engaged in climate change mitigation through its Customer Services decarbonisation portfolio. This initiative is focused on reducing air traffic management (“ATM”) inefficiencies and CO2 emissions from current aircraft in operations. Key projects include the Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research programme (“SESAR”) and the HERON project, which aims to optimise aircraft operations during taxiing, improve trajectory-based operations (“TBO”), and reduce noise pollution. The current ATM environment is transitioning from static flight plans to TBO to enhance airport and Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 177"
"ATM network performance. The Company is also developing fuel-saving procedures for airports and ground operations to minimise engine and auxiliary power unit (APU) usage while aircraft are on the ground. In addition, the Company is exploring innovative practices such as formation flying through the Fello’fly project, launched in November 2019. This project aims to demonstrate the viability of two aircrafts flying in close proximity on long-haul flights, allowing the follower aircraft to reduce engine thrust and fuel consumption per trip by utilising the wake energy of the leading aircraft. The scope of these actions are limited to Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. Lever #5 - Fello’fly project key figure Unit Estimated engine thrust and fuel consumption reduction for follower aircraft (long-haul flights) % fuel burn up to 5% In 2024, the Company has built on the positive results of the Fello’fly project by taking the lead of the EU’s new “Gain Environmental Efficiency by Saving Energy” (GEESE) project, that will bring a concept of operations based on continental traffic flows from Europe to Asia and Europe to the Middle East. It will also define the requirements on operations and systems using the traffic flows from Europe to North America. For decarbonisation levers #3, #4 and #5, the quantification of potential contributions to GHG emission reduction is deemed in part confidential and therefore not published. Due to the complexity and interdependencies between all product-related decarbonisation levers, it is not possible to calculate the achieved individual contributions to the overall GHG emission reductions. However an order of magnitude of the respective contributions from these levers to the sector’s decarbonisation ambition can be found in the graph entitled “The aviation industry’s roadmap towards “Carbon Neutral Emissions” by 2050’ (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). Financial resources for mitigation actions The Company estimates that a couple of hundred million euros per year (combined OpEx and CapEx) may be necessary to complete its Scopes 1 & 2 decarbonisation plan. This estimate is indicative and may be revised pending evolution and progress of the project portfolio. ADAPTATION Leveraging the preliminary outcomes of its resilience analysis, including at site level, the Company is starting to identify and plan adaptation measures that need to be undertaken locally. They are being prioritised, taking into account the estimated time of horizons and / or speed of onset of respective risks. Actions have already been engaged, corresponding to the risks deemed more imminent such as extreme heat and floods. For instance, in Airbus Toulouse a heatwave preparation plan was implemented, and a study on the arduousness and dangerousness of working in high heat was carried out by the occupational health service and the occupational physician. This study focused on the feedback from experiences conducted during the 2023 heatwave, during which 150 workers tested ""Heat stroke alert"" bracelets and cooling clothing. These experiences continued in 2024, and personal protective equipment related to heat will be tested and used again in the coming years. In Airbus Illescas in Spain, following the 2022 heatwave, forced ventilation was installed in all the technical rooms. Green areas have also been adapted, with Japanese gardens combining local plants requiring less water, and a drop irrigation system. Good practices such as free cooling, the use of heat and humidity sensors in technical rooms (connected to a Building Maintenance System) and the use of UV sheets to cover windows are also being implemented by several sites, for instance in Premium Aerotec Varel (PAI Varel). Some measures were also put in place to prevent the impact of flooding events. Flood barriers were installed in Airbus Atlantic Nantes after the site was impacted by an intense flooding event in recent years. In PAI Varel, a weather station is used to control the smoke exhaust closures during rain or strong wind events, and all gutters and water drains are systematically checked and cleaned after each stormy episode. In addition, the design and building of new facilities take into consideration applicable standards aimed at reducing their vulnerability to climate related hazards. The Company will continuously complement, sequence and refine its approach as additional information becomes available, including from its on-going resilience analysis. Certain actions may imply engaging with local authorities and/or communities. Additional actions related to water stress risk are presented in “– 6.2.4 ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources”. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 178"
"The Company is insured against the risks linked to climate-related events that could arise in the short term. The Company has subscribed a property damage and business interruption insurance policy including the impact of natural hazards, covering earthquake, wind and flood, and any other natural event not defined as earthquake, wind and flood, including but not limited to hail, avalanche, snowfall/weight of snow, and mudflow. With regards to its aircraft products, the Company is engaged in adapting its products to the changing climate, recognising the sensitivity of these products to weather phenomena during their operational phase. This proactive approach is essential due to the long lead times associated with aircraft development and operation. To address this, the Company is participating in the European Network - Impact of Climate Change on Aviation (EN-ICCA), an industry working group launched by EASA. The objective of this group is to define a work programme aimed at enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening resilience, and reducing vulnerability to climate change within the aviation sector. Additionally, the Company is engaged in the creation of a working group with ICAO, further demonstrating its commitment to this critical issue. The scope of this action encompasses the downstream value chain on a worldwide scale, with the first assessment scheduled for Q1 2025. This action is continuous and does not have a fixed time horizon. 6.2.2.6 ​Targets (E1-4) The Company has set itself three targets to manage material climate-related impacts and risks: Scopes 1 & 2 The Company aims to reduce its Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions as shown in the table below, and to yearly neutralise all residual emissions. Energy target - Scope 1 & 2 emissions SBTi-validated, aligned with a 1.5°C scenario Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Scope 1 & 2 market-based emissions ktCO2e 2030 467 -63% 2015 1,262 Intermediate milestones, on TCO scope ktCO2e 2025 509 -3% 2024 524 ktCO2e 2024 581 -2% 2023 592 Assumptions: see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” The target is set on the aggregate of Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based. While the plan defined to reach this target includes actions differentiated for Scope 1 and Scope 2, no additional sub-targets were formalised for Scope 1 and Scope 2 separately. The Scopes 1 and 2 target is validated by SBTi as being science-based and aligned with a 1.5°C scenario. The 2015 baseline has been set Company-wide as per SBTi requirements. The Company is considering future developments and their impacts on its Scopes 1 and 2 target, in line with requirements of applicable SBTi guidance and as outlined in the Transition Plan (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). The SBTI Guidance 4.2 methodology was used to set the target and the Company sets-out to update the target at least every five years, in accordance with applicable SBTi guidance. A 2050 target has not yet been defined. This Company-wide target covers the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (market-based for Scope 2) and target boundaries were defined in accordance with SBTi guidance 4.2. To operationalise the 2030 target, it is broken down in annual reduction targets and reductions are allocated across sites: they refer to a material sub-perimeter of its operations, referred to as Top Company Objectives (“TCO”) scope, on which the Company can have a more direct control and influence, and used by the Company to steer its annual progress (see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”). The target is a combined target for Scopes 1 and 2 which has been defined along guidelines set-out by SBTi guidance 4.2, including its baseline value. No intensity target has been set. For Scope 2 emissions, the target is based on the market-based GHG accounting method. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, incl. Facility Management, Industrial Operations, Finance, and Procurement, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. Target achievement is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly and monthly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with expectations - see “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” for more details on achievements. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing and site operations to reduce emissions in line with the ambition of the Paris Agreement. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 179"
"Scope 3 - Use of sold products The Company aims to reduce the emission intensity of its commercial aircraft products: Energy target - Scope 3 Use of sold products SBTi-validated Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Commercial aircraft products emissions intensity gCO2/RPK* 2035 48.0 -46% 2015 88.8 Scope: Company's commercial aircraft Assumptions: average of emissions intensity of all commercial aircraft delivered in the reporting year * RPK: Revenue Passenger Kilometre The target is validated by SBTi as being science-based and aligned with a “well below 2°C” scenario, which is in line with the required level of ambition for a Scope 3 target according to SBTi’s “Corporate near-term criteria version 5.2”. Compatibility of the target with 1.5°C will be assessed when relevant guidance from the EU Commission becomes available. The Company is considering future developments and their impacts on its Scope 3 target, in line with requirements of applicable SBTi guidance and as outlined in the Transition Plan (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). The SBTi Guidance 4.2 methodology was used to set the target and the Company sets-out to update the target at least every five years, in accordance to applicable SBTi guidance. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to develop products and services that enable a reduction of emissions in line with the ambition of the Paris Agreement. A 2050 target has not yet been defined. The set target covers the use of sold products of all commercial aircraft sold (for more information on scope 3 coverage see 6.2.2.8 “GHG emissions”). The target boundaries and baseline value are defined in accordance with SBTi guidance 4.2. The 2015 baseline has been set based on Scope 3 “use of sold product” for commercial aircraft deliveries in 2015, as per SBTi guidance. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, including Strategy, Engineering, Finance, Programmes and Services, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. The Company's progress on the target is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with projections. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. An absolute target has not been defined for Scope 3. Energy The Company aims to reduce purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources across the whole Company reporting scope. This target is aligned with the Scopes 1 & 2 target as the resulting energy consumption reduction is an enabler of the Scopes 1 and 2 target. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, including Facility Management, Industrial Operations, Finance, and Procurement, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. Energy target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources GWh 2030 2,534 -20% 2015 3,167 Scope: Company-wide Assumptions: see “– 6.2.2.2 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5)"" Target achievement is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly and monthly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with expectations. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing and site operations to reduce emissions in line with the ambition of reducing resource consumption and associated emissions. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. Please refer to the section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” for information on decarbonisation levers, plans to adopt new technologies as well as progress against GHG targets. With regards to the energy target related to stationary sources, energy consumption reduced in 2024 despite a production growth context, supported by significant gas consumption containment, better heating monitoring and temperature control as well as clement weather conditions. The 2024 energy target-related metric stood close to the 2030 target, however the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 180"
"Climate adaptation The Company has not set targets for climate adaptation, as this topic is currently managed through the existing risk management process. 6.2.2.7 ​Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Scope of reporting: Reported data covers Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by energy suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling adapted to each metrics. This can be employee-based, surface-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metric. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Energy consumption from nuclear sources was primarily derived from contractual information. When such information is not available, national nuclear percentages defined by the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) have been used. High climate impact sectors used to determine the energy intensity correspond to the categories C Manufacture C30.3.0 - Manufacture of air and spacecraft and related machinery, and C33.1.6 - Repair and maintenance of aircraft and spacecraft amongst those listed in NACE Sections A to H and Section L as defined in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288. As a result, the Company’s total turnover as disclosed in the financial statement is deemed to correspond to the net revenue amount from activities in high climate impact sectors. Climate change metrics Energy consumption and mix Unit 2024 Total Energy Consumption MWh 3,703,856 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 2,278,219 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products MWh 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products MWh 940,425 Fuel consumption from natural gas MWh 920,570 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources MWh 1,953 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources MWh 415,270 Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh 339,256 Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 1,086,381 Fuel consumption from renewable sources MWh 310,375 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources MWh 772,825 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy MWh 3,180 Percentage of energy consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 9.2% Percentage of renewable sources in total energy consumption % 29.3% Percentage of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 61.5% Non-renewable energy production MWh 286,605 Renewable energy production MWh 6,238 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors MWh 3,703,856 Total energy consumption form activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors MWh/ M€ 53.5 Purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources, as per Company energy consumption related target ⚐ Mwh 2,597,029 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 181"
"Scope 2 GHG Emissions - Percentages of energy contracts Unit 2024 Percentage of regular energy contracts % 89.9% Percentage of regular energy contracts covered by bundled EACs % 31.7% Percentage of regular energy contracts covered by unbundled EACs % 8.7% Percentage of regular energy contracts not covered by EACs % 49.4% Percentage of physical direct-wire PPAs % 0.3% Percentage of sleeved PPAs % 4.6% Percentage of virtual PPAs % 0.0% Percentage of other renewable contracts % 5.3% Percentage of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of energy bundled with attributes about energy generation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions % 39.3% Percentage of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of unbundled energy attribute claims in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions % 6.2% 6.2.2.8 ​GHG Emissions (E1-6) Scope of reporting and methodology Reported data covers Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. Most data was reported by entities (see table below). While generally calculated based on measured quantities (energy consumed, refrigerant leakages), certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling adapted to each metrics. This can be employed-based, surface-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metric. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). In order to report on performance against its target, the Company also reports its total emissions Scopes 1 and 2 on a sub perimeter called “TCO scope” (see below). Top Company Objectives (“TCO”) Scope: TCO scope is material sub-perimeter of its own operations and operationally controlled entities (see cover rate in the table below) used for the short-term targets setting and performance monitoring, composed of sites deemed relevant to monitor the deployment of the Company’s Scopes 1 & 2 decarbonisation plan, as prioritised, and therefore also including the largest contributors to the concerned metrics. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% TCO scope, related to Scope 1&2 target % of the Company’s 2024 Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG Emissions 85% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”) Scope 1. Calculation includes contractual instruments (Biomethane Guarantees of Origines) as part of Scope 1 emissions, calculated based on biomethane emission factors instead of natural gas. This approach will be refined as further related guidance is issued by the GHG protocol. Emissions factors used are based on national references for the Companies’ core countries (France, Germany, Spain, UK) and on international references such as the IPCC for other countries. Key figure Unit 2024 Scope 1 Savings related to contractual instruments (Biomethane GoO) ktCO2eq 17 Scope 2. Contractual instruments used to calculate Scope 2 market based GHG emissions are -1- Power Purchase Agreements (direct wire or sleeved PPAs), -2- energy attributes certificates (e.g. REC, GoO, IREC, ETC), -3- other renewable electricity contracts. The share energy bundled with attributes or unbundled has been taken into account for all contractual instruments. All three above categories are used by the Company. So far energy attributes certificates have been the vast majority. Their respective shares in total use vary over time. Emission factors were determined following the hierarchy recommended by the GHG protocol, prioritising contractual instruments or supplier emission factors when available over national or residual emission factors (from IEA and AIB databases). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 182"
"Scopes 1 & 2 Biogenic emission factor. Scope 1 biogenic emissions have been calculated based on biogenic emissions factors available or estimated based on the available information. While the Company could estimate that overall Scope 2 biogenic emissions are non-significant - and reported as such (“NS”) in the table hereafter -, missing emission factors from suppliers did not enable to compute an accurate figure for 2024. Scope 3. The Company has performed a screening of all Scope 3 categories and concluded that category 11 “Use of Sold Product” is the only significant category to be disclosed. Scope 3 significant categories Unit Estimated share of Scope 3 category 11 “Use of Sold Product” in the Company’s total emissions % >95% Estimated share of non significant Scope 3 categories in the Company’s total emissions excluded from reporting % <5% Estimated share of “commercial aircraft family of products” in the Company’s Scope 3 category 11 emissions % >90% All other categories have been deemed non significant and are as such excluded from the Company’s disclosure. Scope 3 - Use of sold products. The main contribution of the Company’s value chain on climate change comes from the use of sold products and the Company reports in-use emissions of the products it delivers (Scope 3 – Use of sold products). This started in 2020 with the disclosure of emissions from commercial aircraft products, and was extended to other products from 2021, namely civil helicopters initially and military aircraft and helicopters in 2022, further complemented by satellites in 2023. The Company will continue to progressively extend the scope of reporting to other families of products, for which the calculation methodologies are still under development. Nevertheless, current results and advanced estimations have shown that the vast majority of the Scope 3 - Use of Sold Product impact of the Company’s products is due to the commercial aircraft family of products, and that this situation is unlikely to change once all the product families will have been assessed. Additional methodology information: ●​ The Company’s emission calculation methodology was developed by a team consisting of key personnel from the engineering and environment departments to be aligned with the guidance provided by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. ●​ The Company has used a number of assumptions based on internal and external information including assumptions based on publicly-available data. ●​ Scope 3 emissions are calculated based on product specific methodologies. As a result no part of the resulting emissions are calculated based on primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain partners For all products: ●​ The estimation includes CO2 emissions only. Emissions related to CH4 and N2O were excluded given the very low levels produced by modern aircraft engines. Emissions related to NOx were estimated and excluded given the uncertainty related to the NOx emission factors and the relatively low contribution of this emission stream. ●​ CO2 emission factors for kerosene are the ICAO internationally recognised lifecycle emission factor to be used for baseline fossil jet fuels (see table below). This factor represents a “well to wake” life cycle analysis to assess the overall greenhouse gas (GHG) impacts of a fuel including each stage of its production and use. Assumptions Unit CO2 emission factors for kerosene for fossil Jet-A /Jet-A1 kg CO2e per kg of fuel 3.846 Aircraft load factor % 82.5% For commercial aircraft: assumptions include the aircraft load factor, aircraft operational usage and average in-service lifetime. Primary data collected within the Company was also used, such as aircraft performance and configuration parameters. Emissions related to commercial aircraft engine start and taxiing have been included, however, emissions from the Auxiliary Power Units (APU) and ground handling equipment have been excluded. For the purpose of this calculation, the Company integrated into commercial aircraft Scope 3 the likely usage of SAF over the product lifetime, as per the IEA-SDS assumptions. Other operating conditions of the aircraft were considered to be static over the whole service life. In addition, the Company reports for reference an indicative figure based on a zero SAF usage. A330-200 deliveries destined to A330-MRTT conversion were excluded from the commercial aircraft perimeter and included in the military aircraft perimeter as part of the “other products” category. Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions and Total GHG Emissions are based on Scope 3 - Use of Sold Products IEA-SDS SAF uptake scenario for commercial aircraft. For other products: ●​ Helicopters: assumptions include activity data from Company’s customer services of helicopter operations such as flight hours per year and region where the helicopter is operated. Direct emissions and indirect emissions from jet fuel production are included over the product’s entire service life. The impact of SAF is not considered. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 183"
"●​ Military aircraft: flight hours and mission profiles vary significantly depending on conflicts and humanitarian crises. The estimation assumes the largest number of flight hours each aircraft has been designed for in its lifetime. The impact of SAF is not considered. ●​ Satellites: The estimation includes satellites delivered to external customers in 2024 and accounts for emissions linked to the production of the satellites’ propellant as well as emissions associated with the launch into space (launcher's propellant production and combustion). Emissions linked to the use of the satellites’ propellant are not included as they occur outside of the atmosphere and therefore do not contribute to global warming. Emissions linked to the reception, processing and usage of satellite data on the ground are not included. Scope 3 GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (as per SBTi-validated target) includes the emissions related to the upstream fuel production and considers the likely usage of SAF over the product lifetime, as per the IEA-SDS assumption. The deployment of SAF is an important aspect of the decarbonisation of the air transport sector, and is therefore an important aspect of the achievement of the Company’s near term target. There are a variety of SAF deployment scenarios and assumptions (e.g. IEA’s global energy and climate scenarios, Refuel EU’s mandate, ATAG “Waypoint 2050”) that may lead to different results in terms of decarbonisation. As a result, the Company is currently researching ways to track the actual uptake of SAF in the fleet (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). Scope 3 - Biogenic emission factors. Emissions of biogenic carbon are calculated based on the CO2 emissions arising from the combustion of bio-derived SAF included in the “IEA-SDS SAF uptake” scope 3 metric below. The CO2 emission factor for the combustion of SAF is assumed to be identical as that of the combustion of fossil kerosene. GHG intensity. Net revenue used for calculation of GHG emissions intensity equals the Company’s total revenues as displayed in the financial statements. Performance Milestones and Target Years GHG emissions disaggregated by Scopes 1 and 2 and significant Scope 3 Unit Base Year 2015 2024 2025 % 2025 target vs. 2024 2030 % 2030 target vs. Base Year 2035 % 2035 target vs. Base year Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions including regulated emission trading schemes ktCO2eq 451 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes % 37% Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions ktCO2eq 318 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions ktCO2eq 163 Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based ktCO2eq 769 Gross market-based ktCO2eq 1,262 614 467 -63% Scope 1 + Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions on TCO scope ⚐ ktCO2eq 524 509 -3% Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ktCO2eq 474,691 cat.11 - Use of sold products ktCO2eq 474,691 ・ Commercial aircraft IEA-SDS SAF uptake ktCO2eq 466,354 ・ alt. Commercial aircraft - (""no SAF"" scenario) ktCO2eq 560,614 ・ Other products ktCO2eq 8,337 Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) ktCO2eq 475,460 Total GHG emissions (market-based) ktCO2eq 475,305 Biogenic CO2 emissions Scope 1 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq 85 Scope 2 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq NS Scope 3 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq 75,392 Scope 3 Cat 11. GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (as per SBTi-validated target) gCO2/ pax.km 88.8 61.1 48.0 -46% Scope 3 Cat 11. GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (""no SAF"" scenario”) gCO2/ pax.km 73.4 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 184"
"2024 GHG emissions breakdowns Unit Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Mobile sources of emissions ktCO2eq 245 0 0 Stationary sources of emissions ktCO2eq 206 318 163 From consolidated accounting group ktCO2eq 446 275 139 From operationally controlled entities ktCO2eq 5 43 23 GHG intensity per net revenue Unit 2024 Total GHG emission (location based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Total GHG emission (market based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Key figures Unit 2024 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity In € Million 69,230 Net revenue (other) In € Million 0 Total net revenue (in financial statements) In € Million 69,230 6.2.2.9 ​GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) Carbon credits act as an additional voluntary measure for greenhouse gas emissions neutralisation, contributing towards global climate actions and it does not intend to replace emissions reduction or become a way of achieving Company’s near-term SBTi validated targets. Both nature-based and technology-based removals, from climate change mitigation projects outside the Company supply chain, are considered and should be purchased in 2025, following the conclusions of the IPCC (e.g. Special Report on 1.5°C and Assessment Report 6).The Company intends to work in partnership with carbon sequestration companies to generate additional technology-based carbon removals. So far, the Company has used carbon credits only, and no removal nor storage resulting from projects developed in own operations or value chain are reported. In 2024, the Company evolved its related contractual framework. This new framework is to be used from 2025, including to compensate for 2024 residual emissions as per Company commitment. Key figure Unit 2024 residual emissions to be compensated in 2025 - contractualisation being finalised tCO2eq 621,222 Recognised quality standards for carbon credits are those that are verifiable by independent third parties, make requirements and project reports publicly available and at a minimum ensure additionality, permanence, avoidance of double counting and provide rules for calculation, monitoring, and verification of the project’s GHG emissions. As a minimum, the carbon offsets purchased by the Company are certified by the Gold Standard or Verra or Verified Carbon Standard or Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standards and the supplier needs to show proof of how each one of the mentioned criteria was met. On top of the core criteria mentioned above, societal aspects are considered, such as prevention of child labour, respect of human rights and relations with the communities surrounding the projects (FPIC process) and co-benefits strategy. Information including project selection (criteria and generated credits quality) and the verification of their actual implementation as per contractual terms were verified by an independent external body. GHG Removals Unit 2024 Total GHG removals from own operations tCO2eq 0 Total GHG removals in the value chain tCO2eq 0 Reversals tCO2eq 0 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Unit 2024 Total tCO2eq 130,560 Share from removal projects % 0.45% Share from reduction projects % 99.55% Per recognised quality standard view % 100.0% Share from projects within the EU % 0.45% Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments % 0% Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 185"
"Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Unit Amount Until year Total tCO2eq 0 N/A 6.2.2.10 ​ Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) Key figure Unit Internal carbon price EUR / tCO2 150 Transition plan CapEx and OpEx The Company has established CO2 reduction targets for Scopes 1, 2, and Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions, which have been validated by SBTi (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1))”. Over the years, progress has been made in reducing emissions and towards achieving these targets. This progress is largely attributable to the Company’s strategic focus on investments (e.g. industrial assets), and operational measures (e.g. SAF purchase) aimed at decarbonising energy usage and improving energy efficiency, among other initiatives, which are centrally managed and prioritised by the Company. CO2 savings are inherently the primary decision criterion for this category of investments, and the use of a shadow carbon price - as described in the following paragraphs - had therefore a limited influence on these CapEx investment decisions. Details on investments and measures are disclosed in section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1)”. CapEx investments (Scopes 1 & 2) The Company has started to apply a shadow carbon price in its broader decision-making process to assess the financial impact of carbon emissions and influence decisions accordingly. This fixed price (see table above) was established considering benchmarks, carbon price projections from various relevant sources such as those of the IPCC 2018, IEA and IRENA 2017 and French authorities, as well as the Company's intention to make it an influential factor. The price aims to signal to project leaders the importance of CO2 footprint reduction and to support consistency of investment decision making with the Company’s commitments to decarbonisation. The integrated internal pricing mechanism factors the internal carbon price into net present value and internal rate of return calculations as part of business case evaluations. By incorporating the cost of carbon, the Company seeks a more holistic financial analysis of its CapEx projects. The financial component in decision making therefore strives to integrate internal carbon price, and favour those investments with a better CO2 footprint. As per the governance established on that matter, internal carbon price is applied in the business cases of CapEx dossiers for operations for Commercial Aircraft. While the actual use is still partial, the Company intends to continue deploying it in the coming years. Challenges to progress result from certain projects inherently having a minimal direct carbon footprint, or the associated CO2 emissions may be difficult to quantify or assign accurately, especially in complex supply chains or shared infrastructure. Product incremental development (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products) From November 2023, the use of the shadow carbon price was extended to current aircraft programmes’ product related major incremental developments in Airbus commercial aircraft business segment, supporting its Scope 3 emission reduction ambition. The internal carbon price is used when the Company introduces modifications to existing aircraft programmes, many of which could reduce drag or save weight in its aircraft design to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions, while accuracy could still be materially improved with further standardised methodologies to assign a CO2 emissions to specific modifications. Of note, the use of this internal carbon pricing mechanism is not deemed appropriate in business cases related to any future programmes, to the extent that the energy dimension is embedded in related modelling and projections. Metrics While the Company does not consider CSRD-defined metrics to be relevant indicators to steer such a topic in view of the context described above, the Company will strive to collect necessary information to report such metrics in the future when additional guidance and best practices emerge. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 186"
"6.2.3 ​ ESRS E2 - Pollution 6.2.3.1 ​Pollution IROs The following IROs were identified for pollution: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E2 - Pollution Substances of concern and Substances of Very High Concern Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may not be in a position to substitute substances of concern or of very high concern in due time in accordance with regulatory requirements. This could lead to business disruption across the value chain and to the Company not being able to deliver aircraft to its customers, which could negatively affect financial performance and damage its reputation. / Own Operations, Downstream, Upstream ESRS E2 - Pollution Pollution of air Actual negative impact Aircraft and aircraft parts painting and cleaning within certain facilities of the Company lead to volatile organic compound emissions, potentially resulting in air pollution if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short-term Own operations ESRS E2 - Pollution Pollution of water / Pollution of living organisms and food resources Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to emissions into water, which may contribute to water pollution and to pollution of living organisms and food resources if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short-term Downstream, upstream 6.2.3.2 ​Substances of Concern and of Very High Concern (hereafter jointly referred to as “Substances of Concern”) 6.2.3.2.1 ​ Policies (E2-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy, described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies”, emphasises the importance of addressing substances of concern by driving the development of solutions aimed at substituting and reducing the use of regulated substances throughout the product life cycle. This approach supports compliance with applicable regulations, protection of human health and the environment and mitigates obsolescence risks for the Company in relation to substances of concern. Incidents avoidance and emergency situations are covered in Airbus Environmental Management System. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to stakeholders and the consideration of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). The use and management of chemical substances are subject to specific requirements, with the main regulations covering the Company’s activities and products being EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals (REACH); Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP). 6.2.3.2.2 ​ Actions and resources (E2-2) Some substances used in the global aerospace industry to meet the stringent technical performance standards required for certification and airworthiness are subject to regulations. These regulations impact key industrial processes and products, such as surface treatments, primers and fire protection. The Company works with suppliers and the wider industry with the aim of developing suitable alternatives to the Company’s uses of such substances and actively promotes the development and use of suitable alternatives, across product life-cycles. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 187"
"Impact assessment Using information from its technical documentation/design data-set as at aircraft production and based on information received by the Company from its suppliers, the Company tracks, records, assesses and declares regulated chemicals. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. This action enables the Company to monitor its usage of substances and manage its compliance with regulatory requirements as well as anticipate supply disruption risks. The Company also engages with suppliers to promote the adoption of a similar approach through regular communication and, more widely, by working together with the aerospace industry to promote worldwide harmonisation of ways of working, taking into account the sector’s safety and lifecycle specificities. Substitution The Company has established a portfolio of activities and projects, collaborating with suppliers, the wider industry and airworthiness authorities to identify, develop, qualify, and deploy new technologies and solutions that aim to avoid the use of substances classified as posing a risk to human health or the environment, while still meeting the stringent technical performance standards required for airworthiness and certification. When it can be demonstrated that alternative technologies meet those stringent requirements, the Company seeks to implement them in its product design and manufacturing. For example, the Company is, in cooperation with its suppliers, developing, qualifying and progressively deploying on new products, chromate-free corrosion protection and paint systems for aluminium structures. Key figures, at year end Unit 2024 Number of regulated substances impact analysed No. >16,000 Number of substances for which substitutes were qualified and deployed No. 509 Number of mixtures for which substitutes were qualified and deployed No. 558 The scope of this activity includes the Company's own operations as well as upstream and downstream engagement. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Data management The Company is deploying digital tools to facilitate the collection, management and use of substance-related data from its suppliers. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. Based on information received by the Company from its suppliers, the engagement extends to both upstream and downstream use of substances, contributing to a life-cycle approach. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Monitoring impacts of substance-related regulatory requirements on continuity of supply The Company also focuses on preventing supply chain disruption caused by the unavailability of substances, whether due to regulatory requirements or suppliers' decisions. This initiative involves regular assessment of such potential risks, such as campaigns to gather information from suppliers. It also includes evaluating suppliers' proposed solutions and the qualification of suitable alternatives. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. All of these actions are on-going and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.3.2.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company framework for substitution of Substances of Concern is aligned with regulatory time horizons rather than with set Company targets and regularly assesses status of the Company’s actions towards managing substance-related regulatory requirements. Examples include using Technology Readiness Levels (TRL) indicators to track progress of the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 188 Key figures, at year end Unit 2024 Number of suppliers engaged in this new data collection tool No. Around 500 Number of part numbers covered No. Around 23,000"
"6.2.4.2 ​Policies (E3-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. A focus of the Environmental Policy is on water, where the Company aims to continually explore and implement innovative technologies and solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, including regarding water. While the policy covers water withdrawal reduction, it does not explicitly mention water management, water sourcing, water treatment or the reduction of water usage in areas at water risk. These aspects are nevertheless included in the Company’s management of water related aspects for its own operations and controlled entities perimeter. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the Environmental Policy in section “– 6.2.1. Policies”. 6.2.4.3 ​Actions and resources (E3-2) The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “- 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)). In addition, water related actions target in particular sites located in areas at water risk, including areas with high or extremely high water stress. Metering and monitoring The Company undertakes improvement of water metering and monitoring to better understand water usage and identify deviations and abnormalities. Notable implementations in 2024 include the deployment of digitised and automated real-time water withdrawal monitoring at Company’s sites in Spain and France. Leak management The Company strives to detect, repair and prevent water leakages in order to minimise unnecessary water withdrawal. This continuous initiative received particular focus in 2024 and has led to the identification and repair of several leaks in a number of the Company’s sites in France and the UK. Water reduction and reuse The Company develops water recycling and water reuse systems. For example, in 2024, Company sites have adapted processes and equipment to establish closed-loop systems where water is being reused, such as in the press cooling systems in Bremen, Germany. In addition, the Company aims to reduce its water usage by reviewing its industrial processes and equipment. 2024 examples include upgrade of cooling systems and non-destructive testing processes at locations such as Illescas, Spain and Nantes, France. Rainwater harvesting The Company implements rainwater harvesting in order to replace the use of drinking water in industrial and sanitary equipment. As of the end of 2024, this system has been deployed at several Company sites, including Airbus in Toulouse, France; Broughton, UK; and Airbus Helicopters in Paris-Le Bourget, France. Employee engagement The Company also acts on employee engagement in order to raise awareness on water management challenges. In 2024, this included deploying awareness campaigns, such as communications on the World Water Day via the Company’s intranet as well as onsite awareness-raising activities. Sites assessments In 2023, the Company undertook studies supported by external expertise across several Company sites to evaluate the water management maturity level of these sites and identify relevant opportunities to further reduce water withdrawal. Additionally, other sites have conducted self-assessments using the same methodology. In 2024, this approach was extended to additional sites Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 192"
"All actions are continuous efforts in the context of the 2030 target (see section “– 6.2.4.4. Targets (E3-3)” below), which are renewed annually, aiming to avoid and reduce the usage and withdrawal of water. All of these ongoing actions are embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.4.4 ​Targets (E3-3) The Company has set the following 2030 target (vs. 2015 baseline): -25% reduction in absolute water withdrawal volumes defined by the Company as the sum of purchased water, abstracted groundwater and surface water withdrawal whilst excluding collected rainwater, reclaimed water, brackish coastal water, and “non-contact” water used for geothermal energy generation or heating/cooling; this metric is referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI”. It applies to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities. This target aligns with the vision of the Company's Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing processes and site infrastructures to reduce water withdrawal. This target is voluntary. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. The target is informed by projected local water stress levels according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, version 4.0 (dated August 2023), using the Aqueduct 2030 ""pessimistic"" scenario (aligned with the Company scenario ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"" which includes the data from IPCC SSP5 RCP8.5). To achieve this Company-wide target, the Company has cascaded site-specific targets, acknowledging that the criticality of water challenges is heavily influenced by local factors. These site-specific targets have been determined with relevant stakeholders at each site, based on local context including local water stress levels. Performance against target is monitored monthly, with a review and analysis of trends or significant changes in performance towards achieving the 2030 target on Company level (update EOY). The previous target focused on purchased water only; the target scope has now been expanded to the scope described above. The inclusion of new entities due to the scope extension has led to an update of the baseline value. The primary focus of this target is the reduction of water withdrawal, which supports the reduction of water consumption. Water target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Water withdrawal-related KPI m3 2030 3,225,016 -25% 2015 4,300,021 3,510,180 -18% Water withdrawal (as per target KPI) slightly reduced in 2024 supported by the outcomes of actions described above (see “- 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2)”), in a production growth context. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.4.5 ​Metrics (E3-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Reported data covers Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by water suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). Water consumption is defined as the difference between water withdrawal volumes and water discharge volumes. All volumes of water withdrawal per source and volumes of water discharges by destination are reported by each entity. They can be either obtained from direct measurements (metering or invoice) or estimated (see table below). When water discharge is not measured or partially measured, the discharge volumes can be estimated from the withdrawal volumes depending on the type of usage on site (industrial process, cooling, fire protection, sanitary use...). Water risk and water stress indicators are obtained for each site based on the site’s geographical location, using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 “baseline” data, World Resources Institute as follows: areas of high water stress: the Aqueduct “Water stress” indicator is used; sites in ""high"" and ""extremely high"" water stress locations are considered; areas at water risk: the Aqueduct “Overall water risk” indicator is used; sites in Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 193"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"organisation such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap. ●​ “Reduce” - increase the lifespan of components - A large part of the Company's aircraft products' components last for the aircraft service lifetime, which exceeds 20 years on average. Some components, called life-limited parts (“LLPs”), have a lifetime which is limited for the purposes of airworthiness requirements and need to be replaced at specific intervals based on the aircraft age and usage. ●​ “Repairability - reuse - second life” - With regards to LLPs, easy replacement and availability of parts over the whole programme lifetime are a priority. The Company’s products are maintained and repaired by a number of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MROs) companies and spare parts providers worldwide. The Company's after-sale activities include the sale of spare parts and the provision of maintenance, repair and overhaul services. ●​ “Recycling” - Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company is working on specific initiatives, such as specific loop creation for titanium (see waste related actions) 6.2.6.1 ​Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs The following IROs were identified for resource use and circular economy : ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Actual negative impact The aviation sector's use of titanium in the production of aircraft components represents a relatively high percentage of the resource's global stock and may affect global resource availability. Short-term, mid-term, long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Risk The risk of titanium supply disruption could have an impact on aircraft production and deliveries, which could affect financial performance. / Own operations, Upstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Waste Opportunity An opportunity to reduce waste may arise from optimising the recovery of industrial waste, such as high-value metallic scraps. This could contribute to more efficient industrial processes and to further secure supply and production, which could contribute to financial performance. / Own operations 6.2.6.2 ​Policies (E5-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company’s commitment to reducing environmental impact during production and throughout the product life cycle, eco-design, circularity, and end-of-life considerations (including waste management in its own industrial operations). The Policy focuses on minimising resource depletion (including virgin resources) and the increased use of secondary materials to deliver innovative products and services, although it does not explicitly mention transitioning away from use of virgin resources nor sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources. All considerations for optimising material use shall also, under no circumstance, be detrimental to product safety and shall meet all technical requirements from stringent certification standards. The Airbus Environmental Policy also emphasises the importance of transitioning from a linear economy to a circular one, diverting waste from landfills and avoiding the depletion of natural resources. The policy does not explicitly mention waste hierarchy nor cover the prioritisation of avoidance. The Company's main industrial waste is composed of metallic waste, general waste, chemical waste and packaging waste. Waste from industrial activities represents about three quarters of the total waste generated by the Company’s sites, the remaining portion being waste generated in offices and canteens. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 196"
"6.2.6.3 ​Resource inflows 6.2.6.3.1 ​ Actions and resources (E5-2) A significant portion of the Company's aircraft components last over 20 years, the typical aircraft service lifetime. Some components, known as life-limited parts (LLPs), need replacement at specific intervals. Ensuring easy replacement and availability of LLPs throughout the aircraft's lifecycle is a priority. The Company's products can be maintained and repaired by various maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) companies and spare parts providers globally. After-sales activities include selling spare parts and offering maintenance, repair, and overhaul services. LLPs can be overhauled for use by other operators or for different missions, including passenger-to-freighter conversions to extend aircraft life. The Company also invests in lifecycle assessments (LCA) for environmental impact, following ISO 14040 standards, and completed LCA studies for all commercial aircraft products delivered in 2024. The Company is dedicated to optimising material use as part of its ongoing resource management strategy. The design process prioritises weight reduction through advanced material use optimisation, which has always been a priority in aerospace and which is directly linked to aircraft performance. These refined and optimised design and manufacturing processes for both metallic and composite components can contribute to improved material utilisation rates (buy-to-fly ratios), as well as reductions in weight, material consumption, waste generation, energy consumption, and production costs. For instance, the redesign of metal components using forming technologies such as stamping or forging enables significant material usage reduction compared to machining from a solid plate. The scope of this action encompasses manufacturing processes across the Company, from its R&D phase to its operational deployments that benefits of material use optimisation may be realised Company-wide. This initiative is designed to be a continuous effort. In the context of the EU Critical Raw Material regulation, the Company has established and maintains an internal methodology to assess the criticality of raw materials based on supply risk, environmental, and human rights impacts. This initiative is driven by the increasing cross-boundary measures impacting the supply of critical raw materials. Based on this, a regularly updated watchlist of the most critical raw materials has been defined to influence design and sourcing choices. Launched in 2023, this initiative fundamentally aims to identify vulnerabilities to mitigate risks associated with raw material supply. The mapping of critical and strategic raw materials is ongoing in the Commercial Aircraft business. The Company’s sustainability and environment competency strategy seeks to cover, among others, circularity. Accordingly, since 2023 training modules are available to employees through the Company’s training catalogue. Examples of modules are “Circular economy – sustainable materials management”, “What is circular economy”, “Implementing circular economy processes”, “Circular design and manufacturing in practice”, “From linear to circular thinking”. All of these actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.6.3.2 ​ Targets (E5-3) The Company has not and does not plan to set a target on this topic. The success of these actions is contingent upon securing commercial agreements and consolidating demand rather than focusing on volume-based objectives. Despite the absence of measurable targets, the Company tracks the effectiveness of its policies and actions in relation to material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. This is achieved through a dedicated multi-functional team with various skills such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management that is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap that sets priorities for material inflows, manages projects, and monitors progress. As mentioned under “– 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2)”), weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. 6.2.6.4 ​Waste 6.2.6.4.1 ​ Actions and resources (E5-2) Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, including titanium, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company has made substantial strides in standardising and harmonising recycling and sorting practices across its operations while managing compliance with local regulations applicable to it. In Europe, these practices have been harmonised, and efforts are ongoing to achieve Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 197"
"●​ Military aircraft: flight hours and mission profiles vary significantly depending on conflicts and humanitarian crises. The estimation assumes the largest number of flight hours each aircraft has been designed for in its lifetime. The impact of SAF is not considered. ●​ Satellites: The estimation includes satellites delivered to external customers in 2024 and accounts for emissions linked to the production of the satellites’ propellant as well as emissions associated with the launch into space (launcher's propellant production and combustion). Emissions linked to the use of the satellites’ propellant are not included as they occur outside of the atmosphere and therefore do not contribute to global warming. Emissions linked to the reception, processing and usage of satellite data on the ground are not included. Scope 3 GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (as per SBTi-validated target) includes the emissions related to the upstream fuel production and considers the likely usage of SAF over the product lifetime, as per the IEA-SDS assumption. The deployment of SAF is an important aspect of the decarbonisation of the air transport sector, and is therefore an important aspect of the achievement of the Company’s near term target. There are a variety of SAF deployment scenarios and assumptions (e.g. IEA’s global energy and climate scenarios, Refuel EU’s mandate, ATAG “Waypoint 2050”) that may lead to different results in terms of decarbonisation. As a result, the Company is currently researching ways to track the actual uptake of SAF in the fleet (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). Scope 3 - Biogenic emission factors. Emissions of biogenic carbon are calculated based on the CO2 emissions arising from the combustion of bio-derived SAF included in the “IEA-SDS SAF uptake” scope 3 metric below. The CO2 emission factor for the combustion of SAF is assumed to be identical as that of the combustion of fossil kerosene. GHG intensity. Net revenue used for calculation of GHG emissions intensity equals the Company’s total revenues as displayed in the financial statements. Performance Milestones and Target Years GHG emissions disaggregated by Scopes 1 and 2 and significant Scope 3 Unit Base Year 2015 2024 2025 % 2025 target vs. 2024 2030 % 2030 target vs. Base Year 2035 % 2035 target vs. Base year Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions including regulated emission trading schemes ktCO2eq 451 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes % 37% Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions ktCO2eq 318 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions ktCO2eq 163 Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based ktCO2eq 769 Gross market-based ktCO2eq 1,262 614 467 -63% Scope 1 + Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions on TCO scope ⚐ ktCO2eq 524 509 -3% Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ktCO2eq 474,691 cat.11 - Use of sold products ktCO2eq 474,691 ・ Commercial aircraft IEA-SDS SAF uptake ktCO2eq 466,354 ・ alt. Commercial aircraft - (""no SAF"" scenario) ktCO2eq 560,614 ・ Other products ktCO2eq 8,337 Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) ktCO2eq 475,460 Total GHG emissions (market-based) ktCO2eq 475,305 Biogenic CO2 emissions Scope 1 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq 85 Scope 2 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq NS Scope 3 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq 75,392 Scope 3 Cat 11. GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (as per SBTi-validated target) gCO2/ pax.km 88.8 61.1 48.0 -46% Scope 3 Cat 11. GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (""no SAF"" scenario”) gCO2/ pax.km 73.4 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 184"
"2024 GHG emissions breakdowns Unit Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Mobile sources of emissions ktCO2eq 245 0 0 Stationary sources of emissions ktCO2eq 206 318 163 From consolidated accounting group ktCO2eq 446 275 139 From operationally controlled entities ktCO2eq 5 43 23 GHG intensity per net revenue Unit 2024 Total GHG emission (location based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Total GHG emission (market based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Key figures Unit 2024 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity In € Million 69,230 Net revenue (other) In € Million 0 Total net revenue (in financial statements) In € Million 69,230 6.2.2.9 ​GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) Carbon credits act as an additional voluntary measure for greenhouse gas emissions neutralisation, contributing towards global climate actions and it does not intend to replace emissions reduction or become a way of achieving Company’s near-term SBTi validated targets. Both nature-based and technology-based removals, from climate change mitigation projects outside the Company supply chain, are considered and should be purchased in 2025, following the conclusions of the IPCC (e.g. Special Report on 1.5°C and Assessment Report 6).The Company intends to work in partnership with carbon sequestration companies to generate additional technology-based carbon removals. So far, the Company has used carbon credits only, and no removal nor storage resulting from projects developed in own operations or value chain are reported. In 2024, the Company evolved its related contractual framework. This new framework is to be used from 2025, including to compensate for 2024 residual emissions as per Company commitment. Key figure Unit 2024 residual emissions to be compensated in 2025 - contractualisation being finalised tCO2eq 621,222 Recognised quality standards for carbon credits are those that are verifiable by independent third parties, make requirements and project reports publicly available and at a minimum ensure additionality, permanence, avoidance of double counting and provide rules for calculation, monitoring, and verification of the project’s GHG emissions. As a minimum, the carbon offsets purchased by the Company are certified by the Gold Standard or Verra or Verified Carbon Standard or Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standards and the supplier needs to show proof of how each one of the mentioned criteria was met. On top of the core criteria mentioned above, societal aspects are considered, such as prevention of child labour, respect of human rights and relations with the communities surrounding the projects (FPIC process) and co-benefits strategy. Information including project selection (criteria and generated credits quality) and the verification of their actual implementation as per contractual terms were verified by an independent external body. GHG Removals Unit 2024 Total GHG removals from own operations tCO2eq 0 Total GHG removals in the value chain tCO2eq 0 Reversals tCO2eq 0 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Unit 2024 Total tCO2eq 130,560 Share from removal projects % 0.45% Share from reduction projects % 99.55% Per recognised quality standard view % 100.0% Share from projects within the EU % 0.45% Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments % 0% Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 185"
"Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Unit Amount Until year Total tCO2eq 0 N/A 6.2.2.10 ​ Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) Key figure Unit Internal carbon price EUR / tCO2 150 Transition plan CapEx and OpEx The Company has established CO2 reduction targets for Scopes 1, 2, and Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions, which have been validated by SBTi (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1))”. Over the years, progress has been made in reducing emissions and towards achieving these targets. This progress is largely attributable to the Company’s strategic focus on investments (e.g. industrial assets), and operational measures (e.g. SAF purchase) aimed at decarbonising energy usage and improving energy efficiency, among other initiatives, which are centrally managed and prioritised by the Company. CO2 savings are inherently the primary decision criterion for this category of investments, and the use of a shadow carbon price - as described in the following paragraphs - had therefore a limited influence on these CapEx investment decisions. Details on investments and measures are disclosed in section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1)”. CapEx investments (Scopes 1 & 2) The Company has started to apply a shadow carbon price in its broader decision-making process to assess the financial impact of carbon emissions and influence decisions accordingly. This fixed price (see table above) was established considering benchmarks, carbon price projections from various relevant sources such as those of the IPCC 2018, IEA and IRENA 2017 and French authorities, as well as the Company's intention to make it an influential factor. The price aims to signal to project leaders the importance of CO2 footprint reduction and to support consistency of investment decision making with the Company’s commitments to decarbonisation. The integrated internal pricing mechanism factors the internal carbon price into net present value and internal rate of return calculations as part of business case evaluations. By incorporating the cost of carbon, the Company seeks a more holistic financial analysis of its CapEx projects. The financial component in decision making therefore strives to integrate internal carbon price, and favour those investments with a better CO2 footprint. As per the governance established on that matter, internal carbon price is applied in the business cases of CapEx dossiers for operations for Commercial Aircraft. While the actual use is still partial, the Company intends to continue deploying it in the coming years. Challenges to progress result from certain projects inherently having a minimal direct carbon footprint, or the associated CO2 emissions may be difficult to quantify or assign accurately, especially in complex supply chains or shared infrastructure. Product incremental development (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products) From November 2023, the use of the shadow carbon price was extended to current aircraft programmes’ product related major incremental developments in Airbus commercial aircraft business segment, supporting its Scope 3 emission reduction ambition. The internal carbon price is used when the Company introduces modifications to existing aircraft programmes, many of which could reduce drag or save weight in its aircraft design to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions, while accuracy could still be materially improved with further standardised methodologies to assign a CO2 emissions to specific modifications. Of note, the use of this internal carbon pricing mechanism is not deemed appropriate in business cases related to any future programmes, to the extent that the energy dimension is embedded in related modelling and projections. Metrics While the Company does not consider CSRD-defined metrics to be relevant indicators to steer such a topic in view of the context described above, the Company will strive to collect necessary information to report such metrics in the future when additional guidance and best practices emerge. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 186"
"6.2.3 ​ ESRS E2 - Pollution 6.2.3.1 ​Pollution IROs The following IROs were identified for pollution: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E2 - Pollution Substances of concern and Substances of Very High Concern Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may not be in a position to substitute substances of concern or of very high concern in due time in accordance with regulatory requirements. This could lead to business disruption across the value chain and to the Company not being able to deliver aircraft to its customers, which could negatively affect financial performance and damage its reputation. / Own Operations, Downstream, Upstream ESRS E2 - Pollution Pollution of air Actual negative impact Aircraft and aircraft parts painting and cleaning within certain facilities of the Company lead to volatile organic compound emissions, potentially resulting in air pollution if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short-term Own operations ESRS E2 - Pollution Pollution of water / Pollution of living organisms and food resources Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to emissions into water, which may contribute to water pollution and to pollution of living organisms and food resources if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short-term Downstream, upstream 6.2.3.2 ​Substances of Concern and of Very High Concern (hereafter jointly referred to as “Substances of Concern”) 6.2.3.2.1 ​ Policies (E2-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy, described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies”, emphasises the importance of addressing substances of concern by driving the development of solutions aimed at substituting and reducing the use of regulated substances throughout the product life cycle. This approach supports compliance with applicable regulations, protection of human health and the environment and mitigates obsolescence risks for the Company in relation to substances of concern. Incidents avoidance and emergency situations are covered in Airbus Environmental Management System. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to stakeholders and the consideration of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). The use and management of chemical substances are subject to specific requirements, with the main regulations covering the Company’s activities and products being EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals (REACH); Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP). 6.2.3.2.2 ​ Actions and resources (E2-2) Some substances used in the global aerospace industry to meet the stringent technical performance standards required for certification and airworthiness are subject to regulations. These regulations impact key industrial processes and products, such as surface treatments, primers and fire protection. The Company works with suppliers and the wider industry with the aim of developing suitable alternatives to the Company’s uses of such substances and actively promotes the development and use of suitable alternatives, across product life-cycles. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 187"
"Impact assessment Using information from its technical documentation/design data-set as at aircraft production and based on information received by the Company from its suppliers, the Company tracks, records, assesses and declares regulated chemicals. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. This action enables the Company to monitor its usage of substances and manage its compliance with regulatory requirements as well as anticipate supply disruption risks. The Company also engages with suppliers to promote the adoption of a similar approach through regular communication and, more widely, by working together with the aerospace industry to promote worldwide harmonisation of ways of working, taking into account the sector’s safety and lifecycle specificities. Substitution The Company has established a portfolio of activities and projects, collaborating with suppliers, the wider industry and airworthiness authorities to identify, develop, qualify, and deploy new technologies and solutions that aim to avoid the use of substances classified as posing a risk to human health or the environment, while still meeting the stringent technical performance standards required for airworthiness and certification. When it can be demonstrated that alternative technologies meet those stringent requirements, the Company seeks to implement them in its product design and manufacturing. For example, the Company is, in cooperation with its suppliers, developing, qualifying and progressively deploying on new products, chromate-free corrosion protection and paint systems for aluminium structures. Key figures, at year end Unit 2024 Number of regulated substances impact analysed No. >16,000 Number of substances for which substitutes were qualified and deployed No. 509 Number of mixtures for which substitutes were qualified and deployed No. 558 The scope of this activity includes the Company's own operations as well as upstream and downstream engagement. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Data management The Company is deploying digital tools to facilitate the collection, management and use of substance-related data from its suppliers. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. Based on information received by the Company from its suppliers, the engagement extends to both upstream and downstream use of substances, contributing to a life-cycle approach. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Monitoring impacts of substance-related regulatory requirements on continuity of supply The Company also focuses on preventing supply chain disruption caused by the unavailability of substances, whether due to regulatory requirements or suppliers' decisions. This initiative involves regular assessment of such potential risks, such as campaigns to gather information from suppliers. It also includes evaluating suppliers' proposed solutions and the qualification of suitable alternatives. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. All of these actions are on-going and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.3.2.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company framework for substitution of Substances of Concern is aligned with regulatory time horizons rather than with set Company targets and regularly assesses status of the Company’s actions towards managing substance-related regulatory requirements. Examples include using Technology Readiness Levels (TRL) indicators to track progress of the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 188 Key figures, at year end Unit 2024 Number of suppliers engaged in this new data collection tool No. Around 500 Number of part numbers covered No. Around 23,000"
"In 2024, the Company updated its double-materiality assessment and refined its methodology to align it with CSRD requirements, as described hereinabove. As recommended in the non-binding Implementation Guidelines for Materiality Assessment, the Company intends to confirm or review (and update) its material matters once a year by taking into account: whether or not material changes in the Company's organisational and operational structure occurred, whether or not external factors occurred in the reporting year, and/or whether or not substantial new information was obtained as the Company progresses in its understanding of topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities. Depending on the significance of these events and developments, the Company would either review the existing DMA or perform a full-scale DMA to ensure the material sustainability matters are properly reported. The 2025 review process is likely to include a benchmark analysis derived from first CSRD reports from other European companies. Complementary disclosure requirements for specific topical ESRS on the description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: E1 Climate change The Company performed an advanced climate impact and risk assessment. This included the consideration of an analysis of GHG emissions from own operations, a screening of all Scope 3 categories, that identified the usage of Airbus products (i.e. Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products) as representing a significant proportion of total emissions. Share of Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products emission in total emissions >90% The Company also identified climate related risks following a TCFD-aligned approach, that included a screening of its sites and assets potential vulnerabilities to climate hazards (see “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”. Such analyses considered time horizons, assumptions and scenarios (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)“). See “– 6.2.2 E1 - Climate Change” chapter for full description. E2 Pollution IRO identification processes considered all business operations and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company has screened the annual declarations made by its sites to local authorities in the context of the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) regulation. Number of facilities exceeding the 100 tonnes threshold for VOC emissions listed in the E-PRTR regulation Annex II. 1 (Hamburg) Impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, such as the one in relation with kerosene production. For SOC/SOVHC, risks and opportunities have also been assessed using the register of the Company’s top company risks, according to the ERM process. This risk notably applies to aircraft manufacturing and is therefore connected to all sites with such industrial operations and handling chemicals. The materiality assessment did not involve direct consultations with affected communities. E3 Water and marine resources IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites from which environmental data is collected (see “– 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)” and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company analysed current and projected local water stress levels to understand where the Company’s activities have the greatest impact on water resources and where risks of business disruption linked to restrictions on the use of water are the most significant. This analysis is based inter alia on the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas; this analysis was last updated with the August 2023 update of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (version 4.0), using the “baseline” data as well as the 2030 scenarios. This analysis allowed to identify that the Company operates facilities located in high or extremely high water stress areas in Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Morocco, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia, UK, US. It includes sites from Commercial Aircraft, Airbus Helicopters and Airbus Defence and Space. As for ESRS E2, impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. The materiality assessment did not involve consultations with affected communities. E4 Biodiversity The Company is still progressing its understanding of the impact of its activities and those of its value chain on biodiversity. IRO identification was informed by the IPBES report's findings that there are five significant drivers of biodiversity loss: changing use of sea and lands, direct exploitation of organisms, Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 149"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"●​ Transition - Market: Low availability of renewable and low-carbon energy The Company has identified risks linked to the availability and affordability of renewable and low-carbon energy. First, there is the risk of low volumes in absolute terms, due to insufficient investments in renewable or low-carbon energy (including through the sustainable transformation of available biomass). Second, there is the risk that even if total volumes are approaching sufficiency in absolute terms, the aviation sector is unable to access sufficient volumes, leading to a risk of a slower than expected substitution of fossil fuel energy and low uptake of the new solutions and products to be developed by the Company, and resulting in lower or longer returns on invested R&D. ●​ Transition - Market: Impact of market measures and their development on demand for the Company’s products Accommodating new types of aircraft that respond to the aviation sector’s decarbonisation objectives requires an ecosystem that is ready. For instance, the development of future products based on hydrogen or other alternative propulsive technology concepts will require significant investments in both products and supporting infrastructure, which could directly impact the operating costs of such a product. Consequently, the absence of measures to stimulate robust hydrogen, synthetic fuels and biofuels supply infrastructure and adapted procedures to ensure efficiency and safety of operations, could mean that the ecosystem will be unable to accommodate the Company’s future products, notably resulting in significant development costs incurred and a risk of compromising the investments made if customers are unable or unwilling to purchase products that cannot be widely operated within the available infrastructure and procedures. Moreover, the competitiveness of this next generation product will also strongly depend, among other factors, on the evolution of the price of CO2 emissions. A high price on CO2 may impact the demand for aircraft relative to competitors' portfolios and could result in the loss of market share for the Company relative to its competitors. The Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially affected if the Company does not, at each step of development of its future products, account for market expectations while ensuring its products stay affordable for customers and competitive with respect to competitors’ portfolios. ●​ Transition - Policy and legal: Climate-related regulations and restrictions - divergence in regulatory framework Aviation and aerospace are complex industries, with long product development cycles and where change takes a long time to be implemented. A rapid evolution of climate related policies (such as the EU zero-pollution communications) and regulatory frameworks (CO2 standards, sustainable finance, emissions trading systems, aircraft operation restrictions, among others) could generate fast-changing requirements and could obstruct new product development pathways. In particular for aviation, as it is a global industry, policies and regulations implemented at national or regional rather than international level, or these evolving at a different speed depending on the region, could result in a negative impact on the competitive conditions for manufacturers and aircraft operators. This could result in a loss of competitiveness for the Company and reduced demand for its products. ●​ Transition - Reputation: Change in behaviours, perceptions and societal expectations Reputational risks could be divided into several categories. Firstly, there is a risk that negative perceptions about the Company’s environmental performance could be used as key decision-making criteria for consumers, investors, or even new talents. Secondly, there is a risk that the Company’s reputation could be damaged by growing societal concerns about the climate change impact of aviation or by the lack of transparency on progress made to address climate-related issues. As an example, the Company disclosed its ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. If the ambition is perceived as unattainable or if the Company is not able to deliver on its ambition, this could result in reputational damage leading to less investment, loss of revenues and reduced attractiveness. A similar situation could occur if the Company’s environmental performance is not on par with its expressed ambition. ●​ Physical - Acute: Extreme weather events may impact the Company's products and operations The foreseen consequences of climate change include more frequent extreme weather events, such as drought, dust storms, extreme temperatures, extreme winds, flood, hail storms, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, cyclones and wildfires. These could negatively impact the Company’s products and its operations (including but not limited to route delays and safe aircraft operations), land assets and infrastructure as well as employees' safety (and people's safety generally). The above consequences and impacts may result in production or other operational disruptions leading to lost revenues, reduced profits, and losses. This could result in the need for additional modifications to the Company's products in order to meet more stringent safety needs, as well as requiring changes to industrial operations and procurement strategy, leading to increased operational and production costs and the consequential costs of adapting the Company’s insurance coverage. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 172"
"●​ Physical - Chronic: Consequences of long-term changing weather patterns may cause increase of infrastructure and operations costs, reduced labour productivity, loss of assets value and negatively impact employee’s health The foreseen consequences of climate change include long-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g., change in precipitation patterns, sustained higher temperatures, flooding, water stress or chronic heat waves). Such changes may cause an accelerated degradation of the Company’s industrial infrastructure and assets (buildings, tools, hardware), may reduce the availability of operational resources and may interrupt logistics flows, therefore impacting the Company’s manufacturing activities. In addition, the change in environmental conditions could also negatively impact the performance of products in operation and negatively impact the health and safety of the Company’s employees. This may result in the need for additional modifications to the Company’s products, as well as to industrial operations and procurement strategy, leading to increased costs and the adaptation of the Company’s insurance coverage. Based on a qualitative analysis, the Company has estimated the probability of risk materialisation. It has also performed a preliminary internal assessment, using data from the Company's ERM system, as to which climate-related risks may involve the most significant financial impacts in the future. The results are displayed in the following table. Climate scenario / time horizon(s) where risk likelihood is considered medium or high, based on Company's qualitative analysis Potential financial impacts before mitigation Key associated actions presented in the Company’s transition plan RISKS 1.5°C >3°C Transition - Technology ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ - Supporting fleet renewal by delivering its latest generation aircraft - Developing and deploying SAF, with the ambition for all aircraft types to be capable of flying with up to 100% SAF by 2030 - Investing in technologies to reduce product emissions, including hydrogen - Investing in smart air traffic management (ATM) solutions and optimised operations - Deploy local adaptation measures following threats and vulnerabilities assessment. - Embed climate change in industrial strategy - Engage R&D activities including with certification authorities on new climate model impacts on products Transition - Market (Energy) ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ Transition - Market (Demand) ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ Transition - Policy and legal ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Not assessed Transition - Reputation ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Not assessed Physical - Acute ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ++ Physical - Chronic ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ++ ▶ ▶ ▶ : ST - ▶ ▶ ▶ : MT - ▶ ▶ ▶ : LT As mentioned previously, the resilience analysis is still ongoing but previously shared information under section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” and to the above mentioned risk management mitigation measures provide a first understanding of the Company's ability to adapt its strategy and business model to climate change. Additionally, the section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)” provides further information on the adaptation actions taken by the Company to reinforce its resilience. More precisely, with regards to product resilience in the context of climate change, aircraft products are sensitive to weather phenomena during their operation phase. While the certified flight envelopes of the Company’s products offer some margin compared to relevant bad atmospheric conditions defined by certification authorities, the adaptation of aircraft design and operation to the changing climate is an important activity to be anticipated, in particular given the long lead time associated with aircraft development and operation. With regards to its defence product portfolio, the Company is collaborating with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (“NATO”) and other defence industry players and organisations (in the so-called NATO Study Group 291) with the objective of developing recommendations on ensuring allied capabilities adaptation in the context of climate change. This is supported by inputs from the NATO Climate and Defence Task Force led by the Conference of National Armaments Directors (CNAD) the Company is also part of, together with the allied governments and other defence industry players. This collaboration aims at assessing, elaborating and deploying solutions to ensure technical capabilities still enable operational effectiveness in facing changing climatic conditions. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 173"
"The climate-related assumptions in the climate scenarios described above were also used in the Company's Financial Statements. 6.2.2.4 ​Policies (E1-2) The Airbus Environmental Policy described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies” addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy deployment. Climate change adaptation is not explicitly mentioned in the policy but is included in the Company’s EMS and business continuity activities. For further detail on the content of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section “– 6.2.1 Policies”. 6.2.2.5 ​Actions and resources (E1-3) Climate mitigation and adaptation-related actions are coordinated by the Sustainability Organisation under the leadership of the Chief Sustainability Officer, which includes multifunctional and cross-divisional teams on CO2 and Energy, as well as a dedicated organisation for SAF. Annual sustainability budgets are allocated to each function to implement said actions. The emissions reduction estimates presented in the tables below are indicative and represent the Company’s best view on how it intends to reach its targets, based on current assumptions, modelling (including effects of increasing production output) and portfolio of projects reducing CO2 emissions and offsetting business growth. They may be refined over time as forecast techniques may improve and the portfolio of decarbonisation projects may be revised or re-prioritised to capture new opportunities or adapt to changes in market conditions. The Company has not identified any dependencies on the availability and allocation of resources for the implementation of the below actions unless otherwise stipulated. MITIGATION The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “– 6.2.2.6 Energy consumption and Mix (E1-5)” and “– 6.2.2.7 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”). Decarbonisation lever #1 - Scopes 1 & 2 - Energy efficiency The Company is committed to enhancing energy efficiency for its buildings and industrial processes as part of its climate change action plan. This initiative, which encompasses improvements in lighting, insulation, and combined heat and power (CHP) optimisation, is on-going and planned to be further implemented company-wide by 2030. Lever #1 - Scope 1&2 - Energy efficiency of stationary assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -73 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 (incl. surface evolution, energy efficiency and weather impact) ktCO2e -92 In addition to its efforts regarding the energy efficiency of sites, the Company has outlined a strategic initiative focused on enhancing mobile energy efficiency, primarily driven by the introduction of three new vessels, with rigid sails technology, and its Beluga fleet miscellaneous efficiency improvement projects. Lever #1 - Scope 1&2 - Energy efficiency of mobile assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -53 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -73 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 174"
"Decarbonisation lever #2 - Scopes 1 & 2 - Renewable energy The Company has implemented a comprehensive plan for renewable and low carbon electricity contracting aimed at addressing Scopes 1 and 2 decarbonisation targets over the period 2015-2030. The primary focus is on Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), which are expected to play a significant role in achieving these goals while the rest of emissions will be covered by REC & GoOs. This Company-wide action has a time horizon set until 2030. The success of the action is dependent on the availability of a direct decarbonised energy supply. This dependency underscores the importance of securing reliable and sustainable energy sources to meet the decarbonisation targets. In addition to PPAs, the Company is committed to the implementation of local site renewable energy generation. Several projects are currently under study and development, focusing on photovoltaic systems, biomass, heat pumps, and other renewable technologies. This action has a time horizon set until 2030. Lever #2 - Scope 1&2 - Renewable and low carbon energy source for stationary assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -125 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -447 The Company is committed to increasing the use of SAF in its relevant internal operations as part of its climate action strategy. This initiative is planned to be implemented by 2030. Lever #2 - Scope 1&2 - Energy decarbonisation of energy mobile assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -78 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -37 Decarbonisation lever #3 - Scope 3 Use of Sold products - Technology improvement Introduction Delivering latest generation aircraft. Airlines renewing their in-service fleet offers immediate potential for aviation decarbonisation, as reflected in the figures below. Lever #3 - Scope 3 USP - Fleet renewal - Target enablers / contributors Unit Current proportion of previous generation aircraft in global commercial aircraft fleet % About 66% Estimated latest generation aircraft efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % About 25% Estimated A350 and A330neo efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 25% Estimated A320neo family efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 20% Estimated A220 efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 25% Continuous technological improvement. Additionally, the Company consistently works to improve the efficiency of its aircraft, through new aerostructure designs, advanced materials, upgraded systems, and more fuel-efficient engines, aiming to reduce CO2, NOx, and noise emissions in operations. The scope of this action is within the Commercial Aircraft business, with a time horizon covering and lasting beyond the 2035 horizon of the related target. A milestone was reached in 2024, with the certification of the A321XLR obtained in August and its commercial entry into service in October. The A321XLR offers the opportunity to longer-range routes for the single-aisle aircraft family, leveraging the platform’s greater fuel efficiency and hence CO2 efficiency when compared to a bigger widebody aircraft. Next generation aircraft, supporting the sector's decarbonisation ambition beyond the Company's target horizon. The Company is investing in technologies aimed at reducing emissions for the next generation of products. In particular, Commercial Aircraft is preparing next-generation single-aisle aircraft technologies, focusing on innovations for airframes and engines. One significant initiative is the ""wing of tomorrow"" programme, which has successfully delivered a full-size wing prototype incorporating lighter composite components and a folding wing tip. This programme integrates over 100 different components and manufacturing technologies, validating key automation targets. In collaboration with the European Clean Sky 2 and Clean Aviation programmes, the Company is researching new efficiency-enhancing technologies, such as semi-morphing wings, dynamic winglets, and innovative flight controls, as tested on a C295 transport aircraft. On the engine side, the Company supports engine manufacturers in adapting and integrating their latest innovations to meet aircraft needs. The Company also considers hydrogen as a promising technology for reducing aviation’s climate impact. It has the ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. The Company believes fuel cell technology to be the most promising to fulfil this ambition, which would significantly reduce emissions when compared to conventional jet engine configurations. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 175"
"The scaling up of the hydrogen ecosystem is challenging and is progressing at a slower pace than previously anticipated. The scalability of fuel cell technologies towards a commercially viable product will also require more time. A commercially viable product is now expected to come later than 2035. The Company will use this additional time to further develop the performance of the fuel cell propulsion and liquid hydrogen system technologies that are expected to enable the development of the Company's first fully electric commercial aircraft, as part of its ambition to pioneer sustainable aerospace. The Company is also fostering hydrogen ecosystem readiness by collaborating with various stakeholders, including airports, airlines, and energy providers, to support the evolution of market needs with renewable and low-carbon hydrogen. In order to foster such development, the “Airbus hydrogen network” involves a number of airports and numerous energy providers and airlines as partners, while new partners are still being recruited to join on a regular basis. In July 2024 alone, two Hydrogen Hubs were launched, one in Spain and another at Gatwick airport in the UK. Key figure Unit 2024 Number of airports involved in “Airbus hydrogen network” No. 215 This comprehensive approach underscores the Company's commitment to sustainable aviation and its role in driving industry-wide decarbonisation efforts. The Company plans to continuously invest in technologies to reduce product emissions with a time horizon extending beyond the 2035 timeframe mentioned for the near-term target. Decarbonisation lever #4 - Scope 3 Use of sold products - SAF uptake The Company is actively fostering SAF ecosystems readiness and partnerships to mitigate climate change. The primary constraints for operators are the price and global production capacity of SAF, which hinder large-scale adoption. To establish a robust SAF market, it is essential to match production with demand, supported by global regulatory frameworks and incentivisation schemes. This includes implementing reporting mechanisms for consistent tracking of decarbonisation progress and using book and claim systems to simplify SAF usage and demonstrate its benefits to freight and corporate customers when needed. The Company is actively supporting the development of a regulatory framework supporting the growth of the SAF market. The Company advocates for policies that incentivise SAF production and usage, sharing industry best practices, and focusing on production levels assessment, life cycle analysis methodology, and sustainability criteria and standards harmonisation. A clear, stable, and consistent policy at both global and local levels, along with incentivisation or regulations, is essential to promote long-term investments and technology development. Lever #4 - Scope 3 USP - SAF uptake - Target enablers / contributors Unit SAF CO2 emissions reduction throughout life cycle vs. conventional kerosene % Up to >80% Current Company's aircraft portfolio SAF fuel blend capability in operations % Up to 50% End of the decade ambition for the Company's aircraft portfolio SAF fuel blend capability, including military aircraft and helicopters % Up to 100% The Company is vigilant about the potential future positive or negative impacts on the environment or people that could arise with the development on the SAF market, if uncontrolled. SAF is a fuel derived from a range of “feedstocks” (origin of carbon molecules used) made from sustainable resources and brings significant reduction of CO2 emissions throughout its life cycle when compared with conventional kerosene (see table). Eight SAF production pathways are currently certified for blending with kerosene, including processes such as hydro-processed esters and fatty acids (HEFA), alcohol-to-jet, Fischer Tropsch, or power-to-liquid. Some of them are derived from used fat, cooking oil and grease, municipal waste, agricultural and forestry waste and residues. More advanced technologies use hydrogen and carbon captured directly from the air as feedstock for SAF production. On one hand, regional SAF production, dependent on local feedstock availability, can significantly contribute to socio-economic development, particularly in developing nations. On the other hand, it is essential that other sustainability dimensions be considered to prevent potential adverse impacts, especially for those SAF production pathways that imply land use. In order to be considered a SAF, an aviation fuel needs to meet defined sustainability criteria and requirements; the Company supports the ones set out by ICAO/CORSIA and in particular aspects related to non-competition with food and water resources. It also actively supports current and future sustainability criteria via regionally or nationally recognised schemes including EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED II), Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), Low Carbon Fuel Standard in the US, Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation in the UK and ‘Renewable Fuel Units' (HBEs) in the Netherlands. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 176"
"2024 GHG emissions breakdowns Unit Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Mobile sources of emissions ktCO2eq 245 0 0 Stationary sources of emissions ktCO2eq 206 318 163 From consolidated accounting group ktCO2eq 446 275 139 From operationally controlled entities ktCO2eq 5 43 23 GHG intensity per net revenue Unit 2024 Total GHG emission (location based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Total GHG emission (market based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Key figures Unit 2024 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity In € Million 69,230 Net revenue (other) In € Million 0 Total net revenue (in financial statements) In € Million 69,230 6.2.2.9 ​GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) Carbon credits act as an additional voluntary measure for greenhouse gas emissions neutralisation, contributing towards global climate actions and it does not intend to replace emissions reduction or become a way of achieving Company’s near-term SBTi validated targets. Both nature-based and technology-based removals, from climate change mitigation projects outside the Company supply chain, are considered and should be purchased in 2025, following the conclusions of the IPCC (e.g. Special Report on 1.5°C and Assessment Report 6).The Company intends to work in partnership with carbon sequestration companies to generate additional technology-based carbon removals. So far, the Company has used carbon credits only, and no removal nor storage resulting from projects developed in own operations or value chain are reported. In 2024, the Company evolved its related contractual framework. This new framework is to be used from 2025, including to compensate for 2024 residual emissions as per Company commitment. Key figure Unit 2024 residual emissions to be compensated in 2025 - contractualisation being finalised tCO2eq 621,222 Recognised quality standards for carbon credits are those that are verifiable by independent third parties, make requirements and project reports publicly available and at a minimum ensure additionality, permanence, avoidance of double counting and provide rules for calculation, monitoring, and verification of the project’s GHG emissions. As a minimum, the carbon offsets purchased by the Company are certified by the Gold Standard or Verra or Verified Carbon Standard or Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standards and the supplier needs to show proof of how each one of the mentioned criteria was met. On top of the core criteria mentioned above, societal aspects are considered, such as prevention of child labour, respect of human rights and relations with the communities surrounding the projects (FPIC process) and co-benefits strategy. Information including project selection (criteria and generated credits quality) and the verification of their actual implementation as per contractual terms were verified by an independent external body. GHG Removals Unit 2024 Total GHG removals from own operations tCO2eq 0 Total GHG removals in the value chain tCO2eq 0 Reversals tCO2eq 0 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Unit 2024 Total tCO2eq 130,560 Share from removal projects % 0.45% Share from reduction projects % 99.55% Per recognised quality standard view % 100.0% Share from projects within the EU % 0.45% Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments % 0% Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 185"
"Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Unit Amount Until year Total tCO2eq 0 N/A 6.2.2.10 ​ Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) Key figure Unit Internal carbon price EUR / tCO2 150 Transition plan CapEx and OpEx The Company has established CO2 reduction targets for Scopes 1, 2, and Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions, which have been validated by SBTi (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1))”. Over the years, progress has been made in reducing emissions and towards achieving these targets. This progress is largely attributable to the Company’s strategic focus on investments (e.g. industrial assets), and operational measures (e.g. SAF purchase) aimed at decarbonising energy usage and improving energy efficiency, among other initiatives, which are centrally managed and prioritised by the Company. CO2 savings are inherently the primary decision criterion for this category of investments, and the use of a shadow carbon price - as described in the following paragraphs - had therefore a limited influence on these CapEx investment decisions. Details on investments and measures are disclosed in section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1)”. CapEx investments (Scopes 1 & 2) The Company has started to apply a shadow carbon price in its broader decision-making process to assess the financial impact of carbon emissions and influence decisions accordingly. This fixed price (see table above) was established considering benchmarks, carbon price projections from various relevant sources such as those of the IPCC 2018, IEA and IRENA 2017 and French authorities, as well as the Company's intention to make it an influential factor. The price aims to signal to project leaders the importance of CO2 footprint reduction and to support consistency of investment decision making with the Company’s commitments to decarbonisation. The integrated internal pricing mechanism factors the internal carbon price into net present value and internal rate of return calculations as part of business case evaluations. By incorporating the cost of carbon, the Company seeks a more holistic financial analysis of its CapEx projects. The financial component in decision making therefore strives to integrate internal carbon price, and favour those investments with a better CO2 footprint. As per the governance established on that matter, internal carbon price is applied in the business cases of CapEx dossiers for operations for Commercial Aircraft. While the actual use is still partial, the Company intends to continue deploying it in the coming years. Challenges to progress result from certain projects inherently having a minimal direct carbon footprint, or the associated CO2 emissions may be difficult to quantify or assign accurately, especially in complex supply chains or shared infrastructure. Product incremental development (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products) From November 2023, the use of the shadow carbon price was extended to current aircraft programmes’ product related major incremental developments in Airbus commercial aircraft business segment, supporting its Scope 3 emission reduction ambition. The internal carbon price is used when the Company introduces modifications to existing aircraft programmes, many of which could reduce drag or save weight in its aircraft design to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions, while accuracy could still be materially improved with further standardised methodologies to assign a CO2 emissions to specific modifications. Of note, the use of this internal carbon pricing mechanism is not deemed appropriate in business cases related to any future programmes, to the extent that the energy dimension is embedded in related modelling and projections. Metrics While the Company does not consider CSRD-defined metrics to be relevant indicators to steer such a topic in view of the context described above, the Company will strive to collect necessary information to report such metrics in the future when additional guidance and best practices emerge. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 186"
"6.2.3 ​ ESRS E2 - Pollution 6.2.3.1 ​Pollution IROs The following IROs were identified for pollution: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E2 - Pollution Substances of concern and Substances of Very High Concern Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may not be in a position to substitute substances of concern or of very high concern in due time in accordance with regulatory requirements. This could lead to business disruption across the value chain and to the Company not being able to deliver aircraft to its customers, which could negatively affect financial performance and damage its reputation. / Own Operations, Downstream, Upstream ESRS E2 - Pollution Pollution of air Actual negative impact Aircraft and aircraft parts painting and cleaning within certain facilities of the Company lead to volatile organic compound emissions, potentially resulting in air pollution if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short-term Own operations ESRS E2 - Pollution Pollution of water / Pollution of living organisms and food resources Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to emissions into water, which may contribute to water pollution and to pollution of living organisms and food resources if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short-term Downstream, upstream 6.2.3.2 ​Substances of Concern and of Very High Concern (hereafter jointly referred to as “Substances of Concern”) 6.2.3.2.1 ​ Policies (E2-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy, described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies”, emphasises the importance of addressing substances of concern by driving the development of solutions aimed at substituting and reducing the use of regulated substances throughout the product life cycle. This approach supports compliance with applicable regulations, protection of human health and the environment and mitigates obsolescence risks for the Company in relation to substances of concern. Incidents avoidance and emergency situations are covered in Airbus Environmental Management System. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to stakeholders and the consideration of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). The use and management of chemical substances are subject to specific requirements, with the main regulations covering the Company’s activities and products being EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals (REACH); Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP). 6.2.3.2.2 ​ Actions and resources (E2-2) Some substances used in the global aerospace industry to meet the stringent technical performance standards required for certification and airworthiness are subject to regulations. These regulations impact key industrial processes and products, such as surface treatments, primers and fire protection. The Company works with suppliers and the wider industry with the aim of developing suitable alternatives to the Company’s uses of such substances and actively promotes the development and use of suitable alternatives, across product life-cycles. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 187"
"Impact assessment Using information from its technical documentation/design data-set as at aircraft production and based on information received by the Company from its suppliers, the Company tracks, records, assesses and declares regulated chemicals. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. This action enables the Company to monitor its usage of substances and manage its compliance with regulatory requirements as well as anticipate supply disruption risks. The Company also engages with suppliers to promote the adoption of a similar approach through regular communication and, more widely, by working together with the aerospace industry to promote worldwide harmonisation of ways of working, taking into account the sector’s safety and lifecycle specificities. Substitution The Company has established a portfolio of activities and projects, collaborating with suppliers, the wider industry and airworthiness authorities to identify, develop, qualify, and deploy new technologies and solutions that aim to avoid the use of substances classified as posing a risk to human health or the environment, while still meeting the stringent technical performance standards required for airworthiness and certification. When it can be demonstrated that alternative technologies meet those stringent requirements, the Company seeks to implement them in its product design and manufacturing. For example, the Company is, in cooperation with its suppliers, developing, qualifying and progressively deploying on new products, chromate-free corrosion protection and paint systems for aluminium structures. Key figures, at year end Unit 2024 Number of regulated substances impact analysed No. >16,000 Number of substances for which substitutes were qualified and deployed No. 509 Number of mixtures for which substitutes were qualified and deployed No. 558 The scope of this activity includes the Company's own operations as well as upstream and downstream engagement. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Data management The Company is deploying digital tools to facilitate the collection, management and use of substance-related data from its suppliers. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. Based on information received by the Company from its suppliers, the engagement extends to both upstream and downstream use of substances, contributing to a life-cycle approach. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Monitoring impacts of substance-related regulatory requirements on continuity of supply The Company also focuses on preventing supply chain disruption caused by the unavailability of substances, whether due to regulatory requirements or suppliers' decisions. This initiative involves regular assessment of such potential risks, such as campaigns to gather information from suppliers. It also includes evaluating suppliers' proposed solutions and the qualification of suitable alternatives. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. All of these actions are on-going and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.3.2.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company framework for substitution of Substances of Concern is aligned with regulatory time horizons rather than with set Company targets and regularly assesses status of the Company’s actions towards managing substance-related regulatory requirements. Examples include using Technology Readiness Levels (TRL) indicators to track progress of the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 188 Key figures, at year end Unit 2024 Number of suppliers engaged in this new data collection tool No. Around 500 Number of part numbers covered No. Around 23,000"
"substitution projects and other Key Performance Indicators which are regularly reviewed by steering committees in charge of substances topics. Aerospace industry products often have long lifecycles and operate in extreme conditions. Finding and certifying suitable alternatives to regulated substances to meet stringent airworthiness standards is a lengthy process, requiring extensive research and development often exceeding regulatory timelines. Consequently, applications for continued use of regulated substances, under specific conditions, are frequently necessary until viable replacements are available. 6.2.3.2.4 ​ Metrics (E2-5) The Company manages substance-related IROs in line with the regulatory requirements and their provisions related to substance traceability, based on information on product composition received by the Company from its suppliers. These provisions generally include the communication of the presence of certain substances, often when above a specified concentration level (for example, presence of Substances of Very High Concern in an article above 0.1% weight by weight (w/w) as required by the Article 33 of the REACH regulation; Substances of Concern which are not Substances of Very High Concern under REACH are not subject to this requirement), or the communication of a range of concentration of some substances in a specific mixture via a Safety Data Sheet (for example, the Company may receive the information that a substance is present in a mixture in a concentration between 10 and 80%). The precise quantity (mass) of substances in a product is not made available to the Company, and the available data does not allow the Company to calculate the quantity of substances in products/articles and mixtures. As mentioned above, the Company is working to deploy digital means to facilitate the collection, management and use of substance related data from its suppliers as a way to enhance its reporting capability in the future and maintain its compliance with substance-related regulations. 6.2.3.3 ​Pollution of Air 6.2.3.3.1 ​ Policies (E2-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy, described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies”, outlines its environmental management and is designed to manage various environmental aspects, such as Volatile Organic Compounds (“VOC”) emissions. In the context of this Policy, the Company is committed to continually reducing its environmental footprint through its industrial operations by implementing innovative technologies and solutions, including to reduce air emissions. For further detail on the content of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). The Company is subject to pollution-related regulatory requirements, some of which being embedded into the permits granted by local authorities to its sites. In addition, the Company’s ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System notably applies the standard recommendations for pollution control audits, training, risk assessment and identification, implementation of risk prevention procedures (e.g. emergency plans, simulation exercises). For example, sites shall conduct an analysis of environmental aspects and impacts at least every three years, as well as each time a material change in operations occurs, also in connection with the Company’s ERM process. The Airbus Environmental Management System is intended to cover incidents avoidance and emergency situations. 6.2.3.3.2 ​ Actions and resources (E2-2) Monitoring The Company monitors Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions to identify the main emitters of VOC within its industrial processes. The VOC emissions are directly measured where required by regulation or calculated through a mass-balance approach. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. This action enables the Company to quantify the VOC emissions and focus actions on priority areas. Storage and handling of raw materials In order to prevent or reduce fugitive VOC emissions during storage and handling of solvent-containing materials, the Company applies various practices, including covering of containers in storage and minimisation of storage in production Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 189"
"areas. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Raw material management including substitution Where technically feasible, the Company reduces the solvent consumption and environmental impact of used raw material by deploying paints/coatings and adhesives with a lower VOC content (high solid systems) as well as water-based systems. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Cleaning techniques Where technically feasible, the Company implements several measures to reduce VOC emissions from cleaning processes. These measures include the use of pre-impregnated wipes in manual cleaning, the substitution of VOC-based cleaners with low-volatility or water-based cleaning agents, and the use of enclosed washing machines for tool cleaning. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Coating processes The Company aims to minimise raw material consumption and the overall environmental impact of coating processes by employing advanced spraying techniques such as air-assisted airless spraying and electrostatically assisted spraying. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. These actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s operations. 6.2.3.3.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company has defined the following voluntary target aligned with its environmental policy, that should also be put in perspective with the Airbus production ramp up over the 2015-2030 period, on its own operations and operationally controlled entities (see “– 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4)”). Emissions target Pollution of Air Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs baseline VOC emissions in absolute terms tons 2030 1,498 0% increase 2015 1,498 1,230 -18% The methodologies and assumptions for setting this target are based on internal analysis of actionable levers (see section “– 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2)”) and also take into account production ramp-up planning. While regulatory thresholds were taken into account in establishing this target, no specific additional direct relation to scientific evidence or stakeholder involvement was considered. The metrics for this target have not changed since its inception. 2024 VOC emission trend followed aircraft production. 2024 VOC emissions stood below the 2030 target while the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.3.3.4 ​ Metrics (E2-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Only the Hamburg site exceeds the threshold specified in ESRS E2 for VOC reporting (as per Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006). In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter (VOC on Target perimeter). On this perimeter, most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling activity-based extrapolation modeling. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). The main VOC emissions sources derive from surface treatment, cleaning, painting and coating operations through the use of the following materials: Solvents: halogenated (TCE, MC), non-halogenated and ODS (Ozone Depleting Substance) solvents (HFCF 141b) excluding paints and coatings; Solvated paints and coatings: primers, wash primers, topcoats and specific coating (for structural & non-structural parts). When VOC emissions are not measured by the concerned entity, a computation is performed by the concerned entities and is mainly based on a mass-balance approach, therefore taking into account the quantity of VOC in above-mentioned consumed materials (excluding wasted products). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 190"
"Direct measurement has been prioritised on certain sites where measured data is regulatory required, while associated cost benefit ratio was deemed insufficient for other sites. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Emissions Metrics - Pollution of Air Unit 2024 VOC tons 155 VOC on Target perimeter ⚐ tons 1,230 6.2.3.4 ​Pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food The Company has identified that its environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities related to pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food are found exclusively within the up- and downstream value chain as a potential impact of the kerosene production processes. An overview of all IROs related to pollution can be found in section “– 6.2.3.1 IROs Pollution”. While LCA leads to identifying such a potential impact, the Company has limited ability to influence the operations of oil & gas companies and does not have any relevant information. 6.2.4 ​ ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources 6.2.4.1 ​Water IROs The following IROs were identified for water: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-3 - Water Water: > Water consumption > Water withdrawals Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the potential impact of water stress - related to climate change - on water consumption, usage and withdrawal in their industrial operations, within a timely manner relative to the onset of such risks. This could lead to production disruptions, which could negatively affect financial performance. / Own Operations Upstream ESRS E-3 - Water Water - Habitat degradation: Impact See Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources in ESRS E2 Pollution The Company’s water usage is mostly linked to non-industrial uses, including sanitary, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, canteens and fire extinguishing. Around one third of the water withdrawn is used for industrial uses such as climate control of industrial facilities (e.g. clean rooms for satellite assembly, paint-shops), surface treatment, machining and non-destructive testing. Procuring the required water does not currently represent a material cost for the Company as overall withdrawn volumes are relatively limited, especially for its industrial operations. However, securing water availability to operate the industrial processes requiring water is critical for the Company to ensure business continuity. Environmental risks and opportunities are managed following the Company’s ERM system, as described in the section “– 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”. This covers among other risks related to water accessibility in areas of high and extremely high water stress. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 191"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"organisation such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap. ●​ “Reduce” - increase the lifespan of components - A large part of the Company's aircraft products' components last for the aircraft service lifetime, which exceeds 20 years on average. Some components, called life-limited parts (“LLPs”), have a lifetime which is limited for the purposes of airworthiness requirements and need to be replaced at specific intervals based on the aircraft age and usage. ●​ “Repairability - reuse - second life” - With regards to LLPs, easy replacement and availability of parts over the whole programme lifetime are a priority. The Company’s products are maintained and repaired by a number of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MROs) companies and spare parts providers worldwide. The Company's after-sale activities include the sale of spare parts and the provision of maintenance, repair and overhaul services. ●​ “Recycling” - Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company is working on specific initiatives, such as specific loop creation for titanium (see waste related actions) 6.2.6.1 ​Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs The following IROs were identified for resource use and circular economy : ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Actual negative impact The aviation sector's use of titanium in the production of aircraft components represents a relatively high percentage of the resource's global stock and may affect global resource availability. Short-term, mid-term, long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Risk The risk of titanium supply disruption could have an impact on aircraft production and deliveries, which could affect financial performance. / Own operations, Upstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Waste Opportunity An opportunity to reduce waste may arise from optimising the recovery of industrial waste, such as high-value metallic scraps. This could contribute to more efficient industrial processes and to further secure supply and production, which could contribute to financial performance. / Own operations 6.2.6.2 ​Policies (E5-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company’s commitment to reducing environmental impact during production and throughout the product life cycle, eco-design, circularity, and end-of-life considerations (including waste management in its own industrial operations). The Policy focuses on minimising resource depletion (including virgin resources) and the increased use of secondary materials to deliver innovative products and services, although it does not explicitly mention transitioning away from use of virgin resources nor sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources. All considerations for optimising material use shall also, under no circumstance, be detrimental to product safety and shall meet all technical requirements from stringent certification standards. The Airbus Environmental Policy also emphasises the importance of transitioning from a linear economy to a circular one, diverting waste from landfills and avoiding the depletion of natural resources. The policy does not explicitly mention waste hierarchy nor cover the prioritisation of avoidance. The Company's main industrial waste is composed of metallic waste, general waste, chemical waste and packaging waste. Waste from industrial activities represents about three quarters of the total waste generated by the Company’s sites, the remaining portion being waste generated in offices and canteens. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 196"
"6.2.6.3 ​Resource inflows 6.2.6.3.1 ​ Actions and resources (E5-2) A significant portion of the Company's aircraft components last over 20 years, the typical aircraft service lifetime. Some components, known as life-limited parts (LLPs), need replacement at specific intervals. Ensuring easy replacement and availability of LLPs throughout the aircraft's lifecycle is a priority. The Company's products can be maintained and repaired by various maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) companies and spare parts providers globally. After-sales activities include selling spare parts and offering maintenance, repair, and overhaul services. LLPs can be overhauled for use by other operators or for different missions, including passenger-to-freighter conversions to extend aircraft life. The Company also invests in lifecycle assessments (LCA) for environmental impact, following ISO 14040 standards, and completed LCA studies for all commercial aircraft products delivered in 2024. The Company is dedicated to optimising material use as part of its ongoing resource management strategy. The design process prioritises weight reduction through advanced material use optimisation, which has always been a priority in aerospace and which is directly linked to aircraft performance. These refined and optimised design and manufacturing processes for both metallic and composite components can contribute to improved material utilisation rates (buy-to-fly ratios), as well as reductions in weight, material consumption, waste generation, energy consumption, and production costs. For instance, the redesign of metal components using forming technologies such as stamping or forging enables significant material usage reduction compared to machining from a solid plate. The scope of this action encompasses manufacturing processes across the Company, from its R&D phase to its operational deployments that benefits of material use optimisation may be realised Company-wide. This initiative is designed to be a continuous effort. In the context of the EU Critical Raw Material regulation, the Company has established and maintains an internal methodology to assess the criticality of raw materials based on supply risk, environmental, and human rights impacts. This initiative is driven by the increasing cross-boundary measures impacting the supply of critical raw materials. Based on this, a regularly updated watchlist of the most critical raw materials has been defined to influence design and sourcing choices. Launched in 2023, this initiative fundamentally aims to identify vulnerabilities to mitigate risks associated with raw material supply. The mapping of critical and strategic raw materials is ongoing in the Commercial Aircraft business. The Company’s sustainability and environment competency strategy seeks to cover, among others, circularity. Accordingly, since 2023 training modules are available to employees through the Company’s training catalogue. Examples of modules are “Circular economy – sustainable materials management”, “What is circular economy”, “Implementing circular economy processes”, “Circular design and manufacturing in practice”, “From linear to circular thinking”. All of these actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.6.3.2 ​ Targets (E5-3) The Company has not and does not plan to set a target on this topic. The success of these actions is contingent upon securing commercial agreements and consolidating demand rather than focusing on volume-based objectives. Despite the absence of measurable targets, the Company tracks the effectiveness of its policies and actions in relation to material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. This is achieved through a dedicated multi-functional team with various skills such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management that is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap that sets priorities for material inflows, manages projects, and monitors progress. As mentioned under “– 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2)”), weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. 6.2.6.4 ​Waste 6.2.6.4.1 ​ Actions and resources (E5-2) Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, including titanium, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company has made substantial strides in standardising and harmonising recycling and sorting practices across its operations while managing compliance with local regulations applicable to it. In Europe, these practices have been harmonised, and efforts are ongoing to achieve Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 197"
"the same in Canada, the US, Mexico, Morocco and Tunisia. This action applies to the whole Company and is continuous in nature. In its ongoing efforts to support the aerospace sector, the Company is actively engaged in strategic raw material management, with a particular focus on titanium. The Company is developing, in collaboration with relevant suppliers, closed-loop scrap recycling systems for titanium, aiming to reduce the need and reliance on primary alloys by increasing the use of secondary flows within the aerospace sector, thereby supporting the balance of offer and demand for titanium and bolstering titanium aerospace sovereignty. The further development of closed loops with suppliers of raw materials for titanium for aerospace grades is currently under assessment. The deployment of this action has commenced in 2024 at selected Company sites and is gradually implemented on a case-by-case basis across Company’s operations. Over the past years and including in 2024, the Company has focused on metering and on data robustness and accuracy for measuring waste, with a focus on standardising the practices towards waste collectors and in line with regulatory requirements for greater traceability. The objective is to enhance data monitoring, reporting and forecasting capabilities in order to steer efforts through sites on waste management. This includes a harmonisation of definitions, processes and assumptions. Digitalisation is leveraged as an enabler to optimise and reduce the environmental footprint, exemplified by the collection and management of waste data on a single company-wide platform to provide a holistic view of waste generated and facilitate more efficient decision-making. Priority has been given to commercial aircraft activities due to the industrial ramp-up. As of the reporting year, most of the total waste volume produced is tracked and reported on company level on a monthly basis (see table in section “– 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5)” below). This initiative aims at reaching a consistent level of data maturity across all sites, thereby enhancing the Company's ability to manage waste and meet policy objectives. Moving forward, the Company will continue to onboard new sites to maintain and improve this standard of data accuracy and transparency. All of these actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. The Company is set to embark on a comprehensive waste reduction roadmap starting in 2025. This initiative aims to focus on developing and implementing strategies to minimise waste at the Company's main industrial sites. The roadmap would contribute to the Company's long-term sustainability strategy, guiding the Company towards continuous improvement in waste management. This action applies Company-wide and is continuous in nature. 6.2.6.4.2 ​ Targets (E5-3) The Company has set a voluntary objective of reducing these overall waste amounts: Resources use & circular economy target Waste Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Waste produced excluding exceptional waste tons 2030 90,764 -20% 2015 113,455 89,387 -21% Additional targets : with 0% directed to disposal, i.e. landfill and incineration without energy recovery Scope: Own operations and operationally controlled entities Assumptions: see “– 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5)” The target relates to all the layers of the waste hierarchy indicated by the ESRS: prevention, preparing for re-use, recycling, other recovery (e.g. energy recovery) and disposal. These targets align with the Company's broader objective to become a recognised leader in environmental engagement and drive eco-efficiency to sustain its business and growth. The targets are measured relative to the 2015 baseline, and span from 2015 to 2030. The scope of these targets is limited to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities and defined methodologies and assumptions are used to measure progress. Waste figures are based on actual data measured. The target was developed on the basis of internal waste reduction perspectives and industry benchmark rather than conclusive scientific evidence. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted Company functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 198"
"In 2024, the Company updated its double-materiality assessment and refined its methodology to align it with CSRD requirements, as described hereinabove. As recommended in the non-binding Implementation Guidelines for Materiality Assessment, the Company intends to confirm or review (and update) its material matters once a year by taking into account: whether or not material changes in the Company's organisational and operational structure occurred, whether or not external factors occurred in the reporting year, and/or whether or not substantial new information was obtained as the Company progresses in its understanding of topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities. Depending on the significance of these events and developments, the Company would either review the existing DMA or perform a full-scale DMA to ensure the material sustainability matters are properly reported. The 2025 review process is likely to include a benchmark analysis derived from first CSRD reports from other European companies. Complementary disclosure requirements for specific topical ESRS on the description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: E1 Climate change The Company performed an advanced climate impact and risk assessment. This included the consideration of an analysis of GHG emissions from own operations, a screening of all Scope 3 categories, that identified the usage of Airbus products (i.e. Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products) as representing a significant proportion of total emissions. Share of Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products emission in total emissions >90% The Company also identified climate related risks following a TCFD-aligned approach, that included a screening of its sites and assets potential vulnerabilities to climate hazards (see “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”. Such analyses considered time horizons, assumptions and scenarios (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)“). See “– 6.2.2 E1 - Climate Change” chapter for full description. E2 Pollution IRO identification processes considered all business operations and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company has screened the annual declarations made by its sites to local authorities in the context of the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) regulation. Number of facilities exceeding the 100 tonnes threshold for VOC emissions listed in the E-PRTR regulation Annex II. 1 (Hamburg) Impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, such as the one in relation with kerosene production. For SOC/SOVHC, risks and opportunities have also been assessed using the register of the Company’s top company risks, according to the ERM process. This risk notably applies to aircraft manufacturing and is therefore connected to all sites with such industrial operations and handling chemicals. The materiality assessment did not involve direct consultations with affected communities. E3 Water and marine resources IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites from which environmental data is collected (see “– 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)” and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company analysed current and projected local water stress levels to understand where the Company’s activities have the greatest impact on water resources and where risks of business disruption linked to restrictions on the use of water are the most significant. This analysis is based inter alia on the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas; this analysis was last updated with the August 2023 update of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (version 4.0), using the “baseline” data as well as the 2030 scenarios. This analysis allowed to identify that the Company operates facilities located in high or extremely high water stress areas in Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Morocco, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia, UK, US. It includes sites from Commercial Aircraft, Airbus Helicopters and Airbus Defence and Space. As for ESRS E2, impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. The materiality assessment did not involve consultations with affected communities. E4 Biodiversity The Company is still progressing its understanding of the impact of its activities and those of its value chain on biodiversity. IRO identification was informed by the IPBES report's findings that there are five significant drivers of biodiversity loss: changing use of sea and lands, direct exploitation of organisms, Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 149"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 2(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 157"
"paragraphs 40 to 43 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 44 Indicators number 1 and 2 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 5(1), 6 and 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 55 Indicators number 3 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 56 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a) ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk. Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraph 34; Template 2:Banking book -Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property - Energy efficiency of the collateral Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities paragraph 69 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 Indicator number 8 Table #1 of Annex 1 Indicator number 2 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 1 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 3 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) (Air pollution - VOC) ESRS E3-1 Water and marine Indicator number 7 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 158"
"resources paragraph 9 ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 Indicator number 8 Table 2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) Indicator number 6.2 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 Indicator number 6.1 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i Indicator number 7 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) Indicator number 10 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) Indicator number 14 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24(b) Indicator number 11 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) Indicator number 15 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) Indicator number 13 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 Indicator number 9 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) (Radioactive waste - Not material) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 159"
"6.2 ​Environmental information 6.2.1 ​ Policies Environmental policy The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company's guiding principles, vision, mission, and associated initiatives relating to environmental sustainability. This policy applies to the Company’s own operations, therefore including to affiliates where the Company owns more than half of the voting rights or has the right to appoint the majority of the Board directors. It also covers the Company’s employees and contractors while at its sites or at work under its responsibility. The policy acknowledges that our planet is facing substantial challenges such as climate change, water, soil and air pollution, resource scarcity and loss of biodiversity. It mandates the development of products and services that minimise environmental impacts, particularly addressing climate change, pollution, and resource use. To enable such an ambition, the Company has set a number of environmental targets, as presented in the respective ESRS. They relate both to the Company's own operations (e.g. GHG emissions, from both stationary sources and mobile sources - including flight test and logistics -, energy - including the use of energy sources -, water, waste management, VOC) and its value chain (e.g. GHG emissions of sold products) and cover material impacts. Compliance with applicable environmental regulations and maintaining the ISO 14001:2015 Certified Environmental Management System (EMS) are integral components of the Company's commitment to its environmental stewardship. The Company’s environmental strategy is implemented operationally by dedicated multifunctional teams at corporate and/or divisional level. These cover topics such as industrial and site impact, product operation, supply chain and substances. In addition, the Company’s ISO 14001 certified EMS notably applies the standard recommendations for pollution control audits, training, risk assessment and identification, implementation of risk prevention procedures (emergency plans, simulation exercises). For example, sites shall conduct an analysis of environmental aspects and impacts at least every three years, as well as each time a material change in operations occurs, also in connection with the Company’s ERM process. While the EMS sets requirements, actual deployment, concrete means and measures are managed at site level and adapted to the nature of a site’s industrial activities and to applicable regulations. For instance, in Toulouse and linked to flight test activities, concerned employees systematically follow dedicated training sessions, including on instructions for fuel handling or on procedures to follow in case of an incident. Also, each year, more than five spill-related emergency situations (e.g. a kerosene leak or a fire-fighting water spill) are conducted to test defined emergency plans. At least one emergency situation is performed in coordination with local authorities. EMS certification coverage Unit 2024 % employees covered by ISO 14001 certified EMS % 90% In addition, an increasing number of sites, including for instance in Spanish sites and Marignane, are certified ISO 50001:2018 for energy management and therefore apply embedded requirements such as running energy audits that enable the identification of improvements or the deployment of related training for concerned employees. The policy is based on principles including integrity, innovation, sustainability, and engaging stakeholders throughout the value chain that aim to inform all decisions, actions and practices in the scope of the Company’s environmental roadmap. The Company commits to complying with its obligations under environmental regulations and standards, minimising environmental impacts through responsible decision-making, leveraging advanced technologies for continual improvement, and integrating environmental, societal, and economic considerations into its business strategy. The policy places significant emphasis on stakeholder collaboration, engaging with suppliers and the aerospace sector to encourage sustainable practices and promote responsible environmental management within the supply chain. A lifecycle perspective is adopted, considering environmental impacts - including GHG and air emissions, pollution, water, circularity, and other dimensions - from product design to end-of-life. The Company invests in lifecycle assessments (LCA) for environmental impact accounting associated with a specific product, in accordance with the requirements specified in the ISO 14040 standard. LCA studies have been finalised for all commercial aircraft products delivered in 2024. In addition, the Company is deploying frameworks enabling design choices to reduce the footprint of operations, projects and products and optimise aspects such as product end-of-life management and critical raw materials usage. For instance, environmental assessments are being used to assist the research and technology decision-making processes related to commercial aircraft activities. The Defence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 163"
"and Space Division also uses LCA as part of the development of the Sentinel satellites that are built for the European Space Agency. The monitoring process within Airbus Environmental Policy involves several key components: -​ compliance monitoring of the Company’s adherence to its obligations under environmental laws, regulations, and standards; -​ performance evaluation committed to the continuous improvement of environmental reporting and performance evaluation processes; -​ stakeholder engagement to strengthen cooperation and communication with both internal and external stakeholders, for instance with suppliers, customers, industry bodies, -​ and risk management to anticipate legislative changes and effectively manage compliance risks to maintain robust environmental standards. Employees’ awareness, training and competence management is another key dimension supporting the proper deployment of the policy throughout the organisation and embedded in the Company’s business management system. Under the oversight of the Human Resource function, competence gaps are identified and addressed through dedicated training schemes. The Chief Sustainability Officer is accountable for the policy. The policy development followed the related requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 Standard. It is available to all employees, and a policy statement signed by the CEO is available on the Company’s public website. Environmental operations are led by the Sustainability organisation, whose role is to guide the business on environmental matters and to set the policy and deploy, drive and improve the EMS throughout the Company. 6.2.2 ​ ESRS E1 - Climate change 6.2.2.1 ​Climate Change IROs The following IROs were identified for climate change: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change mitigation Actual negative impact The operations at the Company's facilities and the air transport sector's use of aircraft in operations lead to GHG emissions. The Company's purchased goods and services contain GHG emissions. Short-term,mid -term and long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Energy Actual negative impact Energy consumption/mix usage originating from the Company's facilities, the suppliers’ facilities and the air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation lead to GHG emissions. Short-term, mid-term and long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change adaptation Physical risk The climate adaptation risk includes the risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the acute or chronic impacts of future climate change on their industrial sites. Additionally, failure to adapt products to perform effectively under future atmospheric conditions in a timely manner, relative to the speed of these risks' onset or time horizon could lead to production disruptions or a product offering that no longer meets customer expectations. This could negatively affect financial performance. See “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change mitigation Transition risk The climate mitigation risk includes the risk that the Company or its suppliers may not meet their decarbonisation ambitions or the late availability of low emissions technology could lead to, respectively, investor mistrust or products failing to meet customer expectations. This could negatively affect financial performance. Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 164"
"2 SBM-3)” ESRS E1 Climate change Energy Risk The energy-related risk includes the risk that renewable and low carbon energy (e.g. SAF, hydrogen) may not be available in sufficient quantities in the necessary time frames. This could lead to less air travel and lower demand for aircraft or for future aircraft programmes if not suited to available energy sources, which could negatively affect financial performance. Own Operations, Downstream (Use of Products) 6.2.2.2 ​Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) In line with the Company’s purpose, “pioneering sustainable aerospace for a safe and united world”, and its aim to lead the transition of the air transport sector towards the goal set by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to reach ‘net zero carbon emissions by 2050’, the Company’s foremost ambition is to play a leading role in the decarbonisation of the aviation sector. This includes developing technologies for the next generations of commercial aircraft, and the ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. Based on the International Energy Agency (IEA) remaining global carbon budget and the share it allocates to air transport, air transport can grow at up to a certain level and meet the Paris Agreement objectives. This relies in part on technological developments to improve the fuel efficiency of air transport, in which the Company and its suppliers have a role to play. This approach also echoes “net-zero carbon emissions by 2050” ambitions from international sectoral bodies such as the ATAG, as well as the UN specialised civil aviation body, ICAO. This is consistent with the Company’s near-term target setting, covering all three scopes of emissions, and with its core product policy that focuses on developing and delivering more efficient aircraft while engaging with the energy ecosystem. The Company has set combined near-term targets to reduce its GHG emissions (please refer to “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)” for a detailed description) that are validated by the SBTi as being science-based and aligned with limiting global warming to 1.5°C for Scopes 1 and 2 and with well-below 2°C for Scope 3 relating to the use of its commercial aircraft in service (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products (Cat 11)). This is in accordance with SBTi's criteria and recommendations for near-term targets. Share of Company's Commercial business segment Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions Unit In overall Commercial business segment emissions (all scopes) % >95% In overall Company emissions (all scopes) % >90% The Company's Scope 3 Use of Sold Products CO2 intensity projections (CO2/RPK) are related to the Company's delivered commercial aircraft in a given year (2015/2035) over the entire life of service. To achieve its GHG emission targets, the Company has developed a transition plan of climate mitigation actions. The plan is structured into decarbonisation levers and sub-levers, which cover innovation in the Company’s product and service portfolio, its own operations, and in the Company’s value chain. A diverse range of factors of different climate scenarios have been considered to detect relevant environmental, societal, technology, market and policy-related developments and determine decarbonisation levers. For more details on the usage of scenarios, please refer to the “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)” hereafter. Key actions within each decarbonisation lever are detailed in the section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. The integration of the decarbonisation levers across all of the Company’s business activities, coupled with the focus on enhancing efficiency in its products, translates the objectives of the transition plan into the Company’s business model and strategy. The potential of technological levers to support the compatibility of the Company's business model with the transition to a sustainable economy and with the limiting of global warming to 1.5°C in line with the Paris Agreement and the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 are based on its experience and expertise in the field of commercial aviation in collaboration with industrial partners such as engine manufacturers. Energy and SAF related levers are informed by the sector's work on the topic as well as elements drawn from IEA scenarios and regulatory frameworks around the world. The transition plan has been approved by the Company’s Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Regular updates on the progress of this plan are presented to the Board’s ECSC. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 165"
"The Company has defined the following decarbonisation levers in order to ensure that its business model and strategy remain compatible with the transition to a sustainable economy (for more details, see “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”): Decarbonisation lever #1 - Energy efficiency (Scopes 1&2). This decarbonisation lever focuses on increasing building (stationary) energy efficiency and mobile energy efficiency. Decarbonisation lever #2 - Renewable energy (Scopes 1&2). This decarbonisation lever focuses on switching to renewable energy through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) (stationary), developing local site renewable energy generation (stationary), and uptake of SAF in its internal operations - logistics and flight tests - (mobile). Decarbonisation lever #3 - Technology improvement introduction (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on the continuous improvement of the latest generation aircraft as well as developing next generation aircraft that are more fuel efficient than current models. Decarbonisation lever #4 - SAF uptake (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on fostering the development of the SAF ecosystem, contributing to the setting of industry standards for fuels, and developing aircraft that are 100% SAF capable. Decarbonisation lever #5 - Operations improvement (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on developing the Commercial Aircraft portfolio of services aimed at supporting customers in reducing emissions arising from the usage of commercial aircraft, in collaboration with relevant actors in the air transport sector (e.g. Air Traffic Management). The last three decarbonisation levers refer to the Company’s Scope 3 use of sold products. They imply a close collaboration with many players in the aviation and energy sectors and are consistent with the aviation sector's long-term aspirational decarbonisation goal of reaching “net-zero carbon emissions” by 2050, as illustrated on the following chart. In October 2022, the aspirational objective of “net zero carbon emissions” in 2050 for international civil aviation operations was adopted by a vast majority of ICAO member states. This political commitment paves the way for the transformation of the aviation sector, ensuring a level playing field at international level and it will accelerate the development of mitigation measures such as fleet renewal, aircraft and engine technologies, alternative energy carriers such as SAF or green hydrogen, and the enhancements of the operational practices and air traffic management. The Company fully supports this international long-term aspirational goal. The Company's activities are not excluded by the EU’s Paris-aligned benchmark framework. Investing in the future The Company’s total Research and Development budget (see table below) is mainly split between - but not limited to - investments in incremental developments of the Company’s current product portfolio which is required to maintain its competitiveness, including from a fuel / CO2 efficiency perspective, as well as investment in the development of breakthrough technologies (e.g. hydrogen based systems, electric machines, energy storage and distribution) that are required for future products. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 166"
"Key figures Unit 2024 Research and development spent Bn € 3.250 Total OpEx (R&D) meeting EU Taxonomy technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation objective (also referred to as “Alignment assessment - conditional use of substances"" in section “– 6.2.7.3”) Bn € 1.440 Of which, reported as aligned (OpEx) in the EU Taxonomy report Bn € 0 Total CapEx meeting EU Taxonomy technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation objective (also referred to as “Alignment assessment - conditional use of substances"" in section “– 6.2.7.3”) Bn € 1.472 Of which, reported as aligned (CapEx) in the EU Taxonomy report Bn € 0 See “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)” EU Taxonomy. See “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)” The Commercial Aircraft business of the Company is covered by the EU Taxonomy under the activity “3.21 Manufacturing of Aircraft” of the environmental target of climate change mitigation (see “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)”). The Company has not utilised the instrument of CapEx/OpEx plans to align its economic activities with the technical screening criteria. The “Manufacturing of Aircraft” criteria includes a transition period until January 1st, 2028, after which alignment will depend on the clarification by the sector and relevant certification agencies for a fuel standard of “100% SAF” specifications and the Company's ability to certify its commercial aircraft products accordingly. As such, the Company is not able to anticipate the evolutions of the alignment of its economic activities in future years. Locked-in GHG emissions Locked-in GHG emissions - Products. For products (AR.3.(b)), the locked-in GHG emissions are considered equal to Scope 3 - Category 11, Use of sold products for the current year and future Scope 3 emissions of aircraft currently in the order book. Please refer to section “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”. Locked-in GHG emissions - Assets. Emissions from all key assets are tracked by the Company's environmental reporting. Future emissions are calculated based on local energy network assumptions and taking into account the decarbonisation levers (as described above) and the impact of industrial production evolution. Locked-in GHG emissions for these assets are calculated as the sum of yearly residual emissions until 2030, with further efforts being required for evaluating the locked-in GHG emissions until 2050. Locked-in emissions were taken into account when GHG emission reduction targets were set. For more details on how the Company plans to manage its GHG-intensive and energy intensive assets and products, refer to the “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” and “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. Tracking progress and performance Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value 2023 value YoY change 2024 vs. baseline Company (SBTi approved) ktCO2e 2030 467 -63% 2015 1,262 614 675 -9% -51% “TCO scope” (1) ktCO2e 2024 581 -2% 2023 592 524 592 -11% -11% Assumptions and (1): see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” Scopes 1&2 GHG emissions have decreased, exceeding the yearly target (see table), primarily due to five factors: a production adjustment during the year, clement weather conditions especially during winter, emission factor updates as well as savings from the increased usage of SAF and biofuels in own operations and the increased purchase of renewable electricity. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 167"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 2(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 157"
"paragraphs 40 to 43 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 44 Indicators number 1 and 2 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 5(1), 6 and 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 55 Indicators number 3 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 56 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a) ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk. Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraph 34; Template 2:Banking book -Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property - Energy efficiency of the collateral Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities paragraph 69 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 Indicator number 8 Table #1 of Annex 1 Indicator number 2 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 1 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 3 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) (Air pollution - VOC) ESRS E3-1 Water and marine Indicator number 7 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 158"
"resources paragraph 9 ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 Indicator number 8 Table 2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) Indicator number 6.2 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 Indicator number 6.1 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i Indicator number 7 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) Indicator number 10 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) Indicator number 14 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24(b) Indicator number 11 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) Indicator number 15 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) Indicator number 13 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 Indicator number 9 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) (Radioactive waste - Not material) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 159"
"ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labour paragraph 14 (f) Indicator number 13 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g) Indicator number 12 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 20 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S1-1 processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 Indicator number 11 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 Indicator number 1 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-3 grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) Indicator number 5 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work- related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) Indicator number 2 Table #3 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) Indicator number 3 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) Indicator number 12 Table #1 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) Indicator number 8 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) Indicator number 7 Table #3 of Annex I Not material Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 160"
"2 SBM-3)” ESRS E1 Climate change Energy Risk The energy-related risk includes the risk that renewable and low carbon energy (e.g. SAF, hydrogen) may not be available in sufficient quantities in the necessary time frames. This could lead to less air travel and lower demand for aircraft or for future aircraft programmes if not suited to available energy sources, which could negatively affect financial performance. Own Operations, Downstream (Use of Products) 6.2.2.2 ​Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) In line with the Company’s purpose, “pioneering sustainable aerospace for a safe and united world”, and its aim to lead the transition of the air transport sector towards the goal set by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to reach ‘net zero carbon emissions by 2050’, the Company’s foremost ambition is to play a leading role in the decarbonisation of the aviation sector. This includes developing technologies for the next generations of commercial aircraft, and the ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. Based on the International Energy Agency (IEA) remaining global carbon budget and the share it allocates to air transport, air transport can grow at up to a certain level and meet the Paris Agreement objectives. This relies in part on technological developments to improve the fuel efficiency of air transport, in which the Company and its suppliers have a role to play. This approach also echoes “net-zero carbon emissions by 2050” ambitions from international sectoral bodies such as the ATAG, as well as the UN specialised civil aviation body, ICAO. This is consistent with the Company’s near-term target setting, covering all three scopes of emissions, and with its core product policy that focuses on developing and delivering more efficient aircraft while engaging with the energy ecosystem. The Company has set combined near-term targets to reduce its GHG emissions (please refer to “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)” for a detailed description) that are validated by the SBTi as being science-based and aligned with limiting global warming to 1.5°C for Scopes 1 and 2 and with well-below 2°C for Scope 3 relating to the use of its commercial aircraft in service (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products (Cat 11)). This is in accordance with SBTi's criteria and recommendations for near-term targets. Share of Company's Commercial business segment Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions Unit In overall Commercial business segment emissions (all scopes) % >95% In overall Company emissions (all scopes) % >90% The Company's Scope 3 Use of Sold Products CO2 intensity projections (CO2/RPK) are related to the Company's delivered commercial aircraft in a given year (2015/2035) over the entire life of service. To achieve its GHG emission targets, the Company has developed a transition plan of climate mitigation actions. The plan is structured into decarbonisation levers and sub-levers, which cover innovation in the Company’s product and service portfolio, its own operations, and in the Company’s value chain. A diverse range of factors of different climate scenarios have been considered to detect relevant environmental, societal, technology, market and policy-related developments and determine decarbonisation levers. For more details on the usage of scenarios, please refer to the “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)” hereafter. Key actions within each decarbonisation lever are detailed in the section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. The integration of the decarbonisation levers across all of the Company’s business activities, coupled with the focus on enhancing efficiency in its products, translates the objectives of the transition plan into the Company’s business model and strategy. The potential of technological levers to support the compatibility of the Company's business model with the transition to a sustainable economy and with the limiting of global warming to 1.5°C in line with the Paris Agreement and the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 are based on its experience and expertise in the field of commercial aviation in collaboration with industrial partners such as engine manufacturers. Energy and SAF related levers are informed by the sector's work on the topic as well as elements drawn from IEA scenarios and regulatory frameworks around the world. The transition plan has been approved by the Company’s Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Regular updates on the progress of this plan are presented to the Board’s ECSC. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 165"
"The Company has defined the following decarbonisation levers in order to ensure that its business model and strategy remain compatible with the transition to a sustainable economy (for more details, see “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”): Decarbonisation lever #1 - Energy efficiency (Scopes 1&2). This decarbonisation lever focuses on increasing building (stationary) energy efficiency and mobile energy efficiency. Decarbonisation lever #2 - Renewable energy (Scopes 1&2). This decarbonisation lever focuses on switching to renewable energy through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) (stationary), developing local site renewable energy generation (stationary), and uptake of SAF in its internal operations - logistics and flight tests - (mobile). Decarbonisation lever #3 - Technology improvement introduction (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on the continuous improvement of the latest generation aircraft as well as developing next generation aircraft that are more fuel efficient than current models. Decarbonisation lever #4 - SAF uptake (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on fostering the development of the SAF ecosystem, contributing to the setting of industry standards for fuels, and developing aircraft that are 100% SAF capable. Decarbonisation lever #5 - Operations improvement (Scope 3). This decarbonisation lever focuses on developing the Commercial Aircraft portfolio of services aimed at supporting customers in reducing emissions arising from the usage of commercial aircraft, in collaboration with relevant actors in the air transport sector (e.g. Air Traffic Management). The last three decarbonisation levers refer to the Company’s Scope 3 use of sold products. They imply a close collaboration with many players in the aviation and energy sectors and are consistent with the aviation sector's long-term aspirational decarbonisation goal of reaching “net-zero carbon emissions” by 2050, as illustrated on the following chart. In October 2022, the aspirational objective of “net zero carbon emissions” in 2050 for international civil aviation operations was adopted by a vast majority of ICAO member states. This political commitment paves the way for the transformation of the aviation sector, ensuring a level playing field at international level and it will accelerate the development of mitigation measures such as fleet renewal, aircraft and engine technologies, alternative energy carriers such as SAF or green hydrogen, and the enhancements of the operational practices and air traffic management. The Company fully supports this international long-term aspirational goal. The Company's activities are not excluded by the EU’s Paris-aligned benchmark framework. Investing in the future The Company’s total Research and Development budget (see table below) is mainly split between - but not limited to - investments in incremental developments of the Company’s current product portfolio which is required to maintain its competitiveness, including from a fuel / CO2 efficiency perspective, as well as investment in the development of breakthrough technologies (e.g. hydrogen based systems, electric machines, energy storage and distribution) that are required for future products. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 166"
"Key figures Unit 2024 Research and development spent Bn € 3.250 Total OpEx (R&D) meeting EU Taxonomy technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation objective (also referred to as “Alignment assessment - conditional use of substances"" in section “– 6.2.7.3”) Bn € 1.440 Of which, reported as aligned (OpEx) in the EU Taxonomy report Bn € 0 Total CapEx meeting EU Taxonomy technical screening criteria for substantial contribution to climate change mitigation objective (also referred to as “Alignment assessment - conditional use of substances"" in section “– 6.2.7.3”) Bn € 1.472 Of which, reported as aligned (CapEx) in the EU Taxonomy report Bn € 0 See “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)” EU Taxonomy. See “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)” The Commercial Aircraft business of the Company is covered by the EU Taxonomy under the activity “3.21 Manufacturing of Aircraft” of the environmental target of climate change mitigation (see “– 6.2.7 EU taxonomy - Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)”). The Company has not utilised the instrument of CapEx/OpEx plans to align its economic activities with the technical screening criteria. The “Manufacturing of Aircraft” criteria includes a transition period until January 1st, 2028, after which alignment will depend on the clarification by the sector and relevant certification agencies for a fuel standard of “100% SAF” specifications and the Company's ability to certify its commercial aircraft products accordingly. As such, the Company is not able to anticipate the evolutions of the alignment of its economic activities in future years. Locked-in GHG emissions Locked-in GHG emissions - Products. For products (AR.3.(b)), the locked-in GHG emissions are considered equal to Scope 3 - Category 11, Use of sold products for the current year and future Scope 3 emissions of aircraft currently in the order book. Please refer to section “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”. Locked-in GHG emissions - Assets. Emissions from all key assets are tracked by the Company's environmental reporting. Future emissions are calculated based on local energy network assumptions and taking into account the decarbonisation levers (as described above) and the impact of industrial production evolution. Locked-in GHG emissions for these assets are calculated as the sum of yearly residual emissions until 2030, with further efforts being required for evaluating the locked-in GHG emissions until 2050. Locked-in emissions were taken into account when GHG emission reduction targets were set. For more details on how the Company plans to manage its GHG-intensive and energy intensive assets and products, refer to the “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” and “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. Tracking progress and performance Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value 2023 value YoY change 2024 vs. baseline Company (SBTi approved) ktCO2e 2030 467 -63% 2015 1,262 614 675 -9% -51% “TCO scope” (1) ktCO2e 2024 581 -2% 2023 592 524 592 -11% -11% Assumptions and (1): see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” Scopes 1&2 GHG emissions have decreased, exceeding the yearly target (see table), primarily due to five factors: a production adjustment during the year, clement weather conditions especially during winter, emission factor updates as well as savings from the increased usage of SAF and biofuels in own operations and the increased purchase of renewable electricity. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 167"
"Scope 3 GHG intensity Commercial aircraft Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value 2023 value YoY change 2024 vs. baseline Intensity SBTi approved target gCO2e/ km.pax 2035 48.0 -46% 2015 88.8 61.1 62.9 -3% -31% Number of delivered aircraft No. 766 735 4% Of which, incl. in scope 3 commercial aircraft No. 764 732 Scope: Company's commercial aircraft Assumptions: see “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” Since 2015, the improvement of commercial aircraft Scope 3 efficiency - measured through this metric - was largely supported by significant investments into new aircraft technology and designs, as well as by projected SAF uptake impact to a lower extent. Given the variable time horizons of each of the five decarbonisation pathways presented above, it is expected that the forecasted increase of SAF used by airlines in the coming decades will have a decisive impact for achieving this target by 2035. In order to be able to check how actual global penetration of SAF is consistent with its target related assumptions, the Company is developing the means to monitor actual availability and use of SAF and the resulting impact on aircraft emissions. The Company's initial approach to develop a tool that has proven insufficient and the Company is now considering alternative options. One such option is to rely on aviation industry recognised metrics being developed. For instance, IATA is maturing its analytical capability to monitor SAF consumption through direct reporting from airlines. Key figure Unit 2024 Est. annual SAF production, as per IATA report * tonnes 1 million * “Fact Sheet - Sustainable Aviation Fuels” dated Dec 9th 2024 available on IATA website For more information on the progress in implementing the transition plan, refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)”. 6.2.2.3 ​Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Following the TCFD recommendations, the Company has defined a range of temperature scenarios (1.5°C, well-below 2°C and >3°C) to represent different climate realities based upon the global scenarios of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (""IPCC"" - Assessment Report 6 (""AR6"")) and the International Energy Agency (""IEA""). The scenario analysis is used to identify financial and operational risks and opportunities related to climate change that may begin to impact the Company in the short-term, medium-term and long-term so that the Company can work to increase the resilience of its assets and Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 168"
"operations in order to mitigate and adapt to climate change. The short-term time horizon (“ST”, considering the current year and up to two years thereafter) focuses on the ongoing production and ramp-up plans to increase production to 75 single-aisle aircraft per month by 2027 whilst the mid-term time horizon (“MT”, around 2035) relates to the assets and activities linked to the transition period between the current and next generation of commercial aircraft products. The long-term time horizon (“LT”, around 2050) is used to anticipate future climate-related risks during the production of the next generation of products. The Company uses Shared Socio-economic Pathways (SSPs) that were developed for the latest Assessment Report (AR6) of the IPCC. SSPs are standard scenarios in climate science that describe coherent and internally consistent socio-economic futures based on drivers like population, economic growth, and technological advancement. Physical risks The Company has conducted an analysis of climate-related physical risks, considering all 28 physical climate risks or hazards indicated by the European Taxonomy for sustainable activities and the CSRD (ESRS E1). Some climate-related hazards are deemed low priority considering the sector or the geographical coverage of the Company's activities and are therefore excluded from the analysis. Nevertheless, the Company is continuously reviewing its exposure to these hazards and their prioritisation. The analysis takes into account the Company's assets and business activities over the previously described medium-term and long-term time horizons as the most relevant for this assessment, comparing projected evolutions compared to a baseline defined as the average of values between 1985 and 2014. The short term time horizon was considered not relevant for this assessment as short term climate related hazards are typically covered through business continuity plans on site level (mostly EHS related) and insurance policies. The most relevant scenario for these projections is the ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"", based on IPCC Scenarios AR6 SSP3-7.0 / SSP5-8.5 and ensures that physical climate risk analysis results align with the latest state of climate science. This scenario represents the highest emissions among all SSPs and, according to the best estimate of the IPCC, leads to global warming of 4.4°C by the end of the century. The physical risks in this scenario are the most pronounced, making it a ""worst-case"" scenario for physical hazards. It assumes current levels of CO2 emissions and greenhouse gases will almost double by 2050. The world economy grows rapidly, but this growth is driven by fossil fuel exploitation and very energy-intensive lifestyles. The SSP5-8.5 scenario describes a future characterised by continued industrialisation and economic growth, with global markets becoming increasingly integrated and global mobility increasing. The total final energy demand rises steeply, and no additional climate policy measures are assumed. The scenario particularly explores the limits to adaptation and the climate physical risks that may impact the Company’s operations and its value chain. Projections of relevant climate parameters, such as temperature, wind speed, and precipitation are used to identify climate hazards. Each hazard is clearly defined within the risk analysis and supplemented with climate parameters used to identify the hazard. Some hazards, such as “changing wind patterns” and cyclones, are assessed based on areas where they are known to occur (local identification) rather than climate projections as no scientific consensus has been reached regarding their evolution in terms of frequency and geography. Scientifically-based thresholds are defined for all hazards to determine the point at which they are severe or frequent enough to cause material damage. The assessment results indicate that a majority of the Company's locations may be subject to high or very high risks by 2050, particularly regarding ""heat stress"" and ""water stress"". The Company has implemented a comprehensive approach to analysing climate change-related physical risks and consists of two main parts. Firstly, a desktop analysis has been conducted for 355 locations of the Company and a preliminary vulnerability assessment for about 30,000 supplier locations. This involves a location-specific analysis based on geo-coordinates and information about the economic activities at each location to generate site-specific climate projections. These projections are then compared with predefined, scientifically-based thresholds for each hazard. Depending on the hazard, the magnitude, duration, likelihood, or extent is used to assess exposure, as described under ESRS E1 AR 11 (a). The biggest limitation in the scenario analysis is the current generation of climate models' inability to simulate all 28 hazards. Consequently, the analysis for certain hazards, including solifluction, land subsidence, thawing of permafrost, glacial lake outburst, saltwater intrusion, landslide, and coastal erosion, relies on historical data rather than climate projections. Secondly, the desktop analysis is complemented by an on-site analysis to further refine the identified risk factors. This involves assessing the vulnerability of the Company’s business activities, existing assets and industrial set up at each location to each hazard and determining whether the occurrence of each hazard would negatively and significantly impact business operations. A physical gross risk for a location is identified if it is both exposed to a site-specific hazard and the business activity is vulnerable to this hazard. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 169"
"Transition risks The transition events were examined for their impact on the scenario and their business relevance for the Company. If both factors were present, these events were subjected to further analysis to determine their short-, medium-, and long-term impacts. The three time horizons described at the beginning of this section are applied to the identification of transition risks. The climate-related transition risks and opportunities identification process involves defining transition events according to categories such as Environment, Technology, Social, Political, and Economic based on specific scenarios and time horizons. The transition risks and opportunities are identified based on the transition events’ severity on business activities with function representatives, and quantified according to likelihood, magnitude and duration of the transition events. The results of this analysis show that transition events are expected to primarily impact business activities rather than the Company’s assets, as detailed in the risk table in the Resilience Analysis section below. As mentioned above, the scenarios chosen by the Company were carefully aligned with current scientific findings to ensure their relevance and accuracy in representing possible climate-related outcomes. The analysis of climate change-related transition risks and opportunities relied on the Net Zero Emissions scenario of the International Energy Agency (IEA), as described in the latest World Energy Outlook (WEO) of 2023 and the associated data tables. Additional insights were drawn from previous IEA special reports on this scenario. The scenario selected is the “Aggressive mitigation - Limiting warming to 1.5°C”, based on the IPCC Assessment Report 6 (AR6) Scenario Shared Socioeconomic Pathway (SSP) 1-1.9 and the Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE) by the IEA. This scenario reflects the ambition of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (Paris Agreement) and is a very ambitious scenario that limits global warming to 1.5 °C by the end of the century. In this scenario the global energy sector achieves net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050 and the world reaches the objective of the Paris Agreement. Developed countries (e.g. including those within the European Union) accelerate in decarbonisation. Societies adopt practices to enable the required levels of reduction of emissions, including increasing investment in and development of technologies that could reduce emissions of the transport sector in developed countries and limit emissions growth in developing countries. Policies to decarbonise are introduced immediately (2020s), with these policies diverging across sectors and regions and differing in both the timing of their deployment and their reach. Mitigation strategies implemented worldwide and across sectors include: ●​ improvements in energy efficiency are implemented (however additional mitigation technologies for aviation are required); ●​ transitioning from fossil-based energy to very low or zero-carbon sources including hydrogen and high density biofuels for aviation; ●​ carbon capture utilisation and storage is used in remaining fossil-fuels facilities; ●​ both nature- and technology-based Carbon Dioxide Removals (“CDR”) are deployed to the levels required to neutralise global residual GHG emissions; and ●​ countries implement measures towards restricting demand for transport services while supporting the shift to more energy efficient and low carbon intensive products and transport modes. Severe weather events are more frequent, but the world has avoided the worst consequences of climate change. The 1.5°C scenario used during this analysis was analysed using sector-specific data alongside comprehensive macroeconomic variables and price metrics to support the identification of transition events and exposure assessment. Furthermore, the long term time horizon (2050) aligns with the climate-related policy stated objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, as well as with the time horizon of relevant technical scenarios used, such as IEA scenarios described below. This detailed information enabled a thorough and insightful scenario analysis which resulted in the identification of projected risks on the Company's business. This analysis informed the double materiality assessment process described under “– 6.1.1.4 IRO: Impact, risk and opportunity management”. In 2024, the Company integrated a climate scenario analysis to predict and prepare for future conditions. This analysis includes several assumptions such as the transition to a lower-carbon economy, which is expected to influence macroeconomic trends, energy consumption patterns, and the adoption of new technologies. The 1.5°C scenario from the IEA's World Energy Outlook (WEO) includes critical assumptions about global energy demand, carbon pricing, and the pace of technological innovations required to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. Key assumptions are described in more detail in the scenario description above. The global energy and climate model used by the Company integrates innovative and emerging technologies, tracking their maturity and expected market introduction. Transition risks and opportunities are primarily linked to the air transport sector. Efficiency improvements, such as optimised aircraft designs, mass reduction, and propulsion system improvements, offer some mitigation potential. However, additional CO2 emissions mitigation technologies, including high energy density biofuels, low-emission hydrogen, and synthetic fuels, will be required for aviation. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 170"
"Creating favourable conditions for the SAF market requires both global cooperation and regional initiatives. In the EU and the US, positive momentum is evident, and similar efforts are needed worldwide. Cooperative platforms like the Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative (CAAFI) in the US exemplify how stakeholders can collaborate to foster development of the market. Early adopter. As an early adopter, the Company aims to stimulate market demand through its above mentioned flight tests and internal logistics using the Beluga aircraft, addressing actual SAF market development challenges. Key figure Unit 2024 Proportion of SAF used in Company’s own operations % 18% In addition, the Company also engages with customers to assist them in using SAF in their commercial operations and better understand how SAF can be integrated in their business models. In 2024, the Company signed an agreement with airline Wizz Air including the integration of SAF on two European routes, as well as passenger surveys and joint marketing campaigns. The scope of this action is focused on Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035 and beyond. The Company is engaged in initiatives and partnerships promoting the development of SAF production and use. This also includes partnerships with airlines and producers aiming to accelerate the aviation sector’s transition to SAF. Towards a harmonised framework. As a global industry, aviation requires a harmonised and interoperable framework of standards and regulations to ensure a level playing field. The Company supports the systematic implementation of SAF policies across all states and recognises CORSIA as a reference for sustainability standards, aiding in the global sourcing of SAF. The Company also plays a leading role in cross-industry initiatives with ICAO state members, ATAG, IATA, JetZero Council (UK), and the First Movers Coalition, a partnership launched by the World Economic Forum (WEF). Regionally, the Company monitors the development of SAF-related regulations at national as well as regional levels to ensure their consistency with global standards and regulatory frameworks. For instance, in 2024, The Company contributed to the Colombian Ministry of Transportation's ""Roadmap for Sustainable Aviation Fuels in Colombia"" as a contributor to their roadmap through two studies: ""Decarbonizing Aviation in Latin America in a Sustainable Way"" and ""SAF Risks and Opportunities Workshop for Colombia"". The scope of this action is within Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. The decarbonisation lever for this action is the uptake of SAF. Aircraft capability. The Company is committed to ensure that all its aircraft platforms are up to 100% SAF capable by the end of the decade. This initiative aims to enhance the technical capability of the Company's aircraft portfolio, which is currently capable of operating with a fuel blend of up to 50% SAF. The ambition is to enable all aircraft platforms, including military aircraft and helicopters, to operate with up to 100% SAF by the end of the decade. The current 50% SAF limit ensures compatibility with the JET A/A-1 specification, allowing for a drop-in solution without modifications to aircraft or fueling infrastructure. Exceeding this limit would necessitate either modifications to adapt to a new fuel grade or the development of a purely synthetic fuel that fits within the existing specification. The Company is actively involved in two key research projects in collaboration with industry partners: VOLCAN (a collaboration with Safran, Dassault and the french ministry of transport) and ECLIF3 (a collaboration with with Rolls-Royce, the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and SAF producer Neste). These projects focus on assessing the impact of 100% SAF on engine and fuel systems, as well as measuring the benefits on emissions and fuel efficiency. The findings from these projects will support further research and technical work to achieve 100% SAF certification for commercial flights by the end of the decade. Additionally, the Company has contributed to the approval process of eight SAF blending pathways with kerosene and continues to support industry-wide standardisation efforts at ASTM International to approve future pathways. In 2024, The Company was designated as co-leader of a newly formed working group in the frame of the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG), aiming at developing technical specifications for 100% SAF. The scope of this action encompasses Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. The actions of this lever depend on the overall SAF market development, including the actions and investments of external resources. Decarbonisation lever #5 - Scope 3 Use of sold products - Operations improvement The Company is as well engaged in climate change mitigation through its Customer Services decarbonisation portfolio. This initiative is focused on reducing air traffic management (“ATM”) inefficiencies and CO2 emissions from current aircraft in operations. Key projects include the Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research programme (“SESAR”) and the HERON project, which aims to optimise aircraft operations during taxiing, improve trajectory-based operations (“TBO”), and reduce noise pollution. The current ATM environment is transitioning from static flight plans to TBO to enhance airport and Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 177"
"ATM network performance. The Company is also developing fuel-saving procedures for airports and ground operations to minimise engine and auxiliary power unit (APU) usage while aircraft are on the ground. In addition, the Company is exploring innovative practices such as formation flying through the Fello’fly project, launched in November 2019. This project aims to demonstrate the viability of two aircrafts flying in close proximity on long-haul flights, allowing the follower aircraft to reduce engine thrust and fuel consumption per trip by utilising the wake energy of the leading aircraft. The scope of these actions are limited to Commercial Aircraft, with a time horizon set for 2035. Lever #5 - Fello’fly project key figure Unit Estimated engine thrust and fuel consumption reduction for follower aircraft (long-haul flights) % fuel burn up to 5% In 2024, the Company has built on the positive results of the Fello’fly project by taking the lead of the EU’s new “Gain Environmental Efficiency by Saving Energy” (GEESE) project, that will bring a concept of operations based on continental traffic flows from Europe to Asia and Europe to the Middle East. It will also define the requirements on operations and systems using the traffic flows from Europe to North America. For decarbonisation levers #3, #4 and #5, the quantification of potential contributions to GHG emission reduction is deemed in part confidential and therefore not published. Due to the complexity and interdependencies between all product-related decarbonisation levers, it is not possible to calculate the achieved individual contributions to the overall GHG emission reductions. However an order of magnitude of the respective contributions from these levers to the sector’s decarbonisation ambition can be found in the graph entitled “The aviation industry’s roadmap towards “Carbon Neutral Emissions” by 2050’ (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). Financial resources for mitigation actions The Company estimates that a couple of hundred million euros per year (combined OpEx and CapEx) may be necessary to complete its Scopes 1 & 2 decarbonisation plan. This estimate is indicative and may be revised pending evolution and progress of the project portfolio. ADAPTATION Leveraging the preliminary outcomes of its resilience analysis, including at site level, the Company is starting to identify and plan adaptation measures that need to be undertaken locally. They are being prioritised, taking into account the estimated time of horizons and / or speed of onset of respective risks. Actions have already been engaged, corresponding to the risks deemed more imminent such as extreme heat and floods. For instance, in Airbus Toulouse a heatwave preparation plan was implemented, and a study on the arduousness and dangerousness of working in high heat was carried out by the occupational health service and the occupational physician. This study focused on the feedback from experiences conducted during the 2023 heatwave, during which 150 workers tested ""Heat stroke alert"" bracelets and cooling clothing. These experiences continued in 2024, and personal protective equipment related to heat will be tested and used again in the coming years. In Airbus Illescas in Spain, following the 2022 heatwave, forced ventilation was installed in all the technical rooms. Green areas have also been adapted, with Japanese gardens combining local plants requiring less water, and a drop irrigation system. Good practices such as free cooling, the use of heat and humidity sensors in technical rooms (connected to a Building Maintenance System) and the use of UV sheets to cover windows are also being implemented by several sites, for instance in Premium Aerotec Varel (PAI Varel). Some measures were also put in place to prevent the impact of flooding events. Flood barriers were installed in Airbus Atlantic Nantes after the site was impacted by an intense flooding event in recent years. In PAI Varel, a weather station is used to control the smoke exhaust closures during rain or strong wind events, and all gutters and water drains are systematically checked and cleaned after each stormy episode. In addition, the design and building of new facilities take into consideration applicable standards aimed at reducing their vulnerability to climate related hazards. The Company will continuously complement, sequence and refine its approach as additional information becomes available, including from its on-going resilience analysis. Certain actions may imply engaging with local authorities and/or communities. Additional actions related to water stress risk are presented in “– 6.2.4 ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources”. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 178"
"The Company is insured against the risks linked to climate-related events that could arise in the short term. The Company has subscribed a property damage and business interruption insurance policy including the impact of natural hazards, covering earthquake, wind and flood, and any other natural event not defined as earthquake, wind and flood, including but not limited to hail, avalanche, snowfall/weight of snow, and mudflow. With regards to its aircraft products, the Company is engaged in adapting its products to the changing climate, recognising the sensitivity of these products to weather phenomena during their operational phase. This proactive approach is essential due to the long lead times associated with aircraft development and operation. To address this, the Company is participating in the European Network - Impact of Climate Change on Aviation (EN-ICCA), an industry working group launched by EASA. The objective of this group is to define a work programme aimed at enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening resilience, and reducing vulnerability to climate change within the aviation sector. Additionally, the Company is engaged in the creation of a working group with ICAO, further demonstrating its commitment to this critical issue. The scope of this action encompasses the downstream value chain on a worldwide scale, with the first assessment scheduled for Q1 2025. This action is continuous and does not have a fixed time horizon. 6.2.2.6 ​Targets (E1-4) The Company has set itself three targets to manage material climate-related impacts and risks: Scopes 1 & 2 The Company aims to reduce its Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions as shown in the table below, and to yearly neutralise all residual emissions. Energy target - Scope 1 & 2 emissions SBTi-validated, aligned with a 1.5°C scenario Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Scope 1 & 2 market-based emissions ktCO2e 2030 467 -63% 2015 1,262 Intermediate milestones, on TCO scope ktCO2e 2025 509 -3% 2024 524 ktCO2e 2024 581 -2% 2023 592 Assumptions: see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” The target is set on the aggregate of Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based. While the plan defined to reach this target includes actions differentiated for Scope 1 and Scope 2, no additional sub-targets were formalised for Scope 1 and Scope 2 separately. The Scopes 1 and 2 target is validated by SBTi as being science-based and aligned with a 1.5°C scenario. The 2015 baseline has been set Company-wide as per SBTi requirements. The Company is considering future developments and their impacts on its Scopes 1 and 2 target, in line with requirements of applicable SBTi guidance and as outlined in the Transition Plan (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). The SBTI Guidance 4.2 methodology was used to set the target and the Company sets-out to update the target at least every five years, in accordance with applicable SBTi guidance. A 2050 target has not yet been defined. This Company-wide target covers the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (market-based for Scope 2) and target boundaries were defined in accordance with SBTi guidance 4.2. To operationalise the 2030 target, it is broken down in annual reduction targets and reductions are allocated across sites: they refer to a material sub-perimeter of its operations, referred to as Top Company Objectives (“TCO”) scope, on which the Company can have a more direct control and influence, and used by the Company to steer its annual progress (see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”). The target is a combined target for Scopes 1 and 2 which has been defined along guidelines set-out by SBTi guidance 4.2, including its baseline value. No intensity target has been set. For Scope 2 emissions, the target is based on the market-based GHG accounting method. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, incl. Facility Management, Industrial Operations, Finance, and Procurement, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. Target achievement is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly and monthly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with expectations - see “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” for more details on achievements. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing and site operations to reduce emissions in line with the ambition of the Paris Agreement. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 179"
"Scope 3 - Use of sold products The Company aims to reduce the emission intensity of its commercial aircraft products: Energy target - Scope 3 Use of sold products SBTi-validated Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Commercial aircraft products emissions intensity gCO2/RPK* 2035 48.0 -46% 2015 88.8 Scope: Company's commercial aircraft Assumptions: average of emissions intensity of all commercial aircraft delivered in the reporting year * RPK: Revenue Passenger Kilometre The target is validated by SBTi as being science-based and aligned with a “well below 2°C” scenario, which is in line with the required level of ambition for a Scope 3 target according to SBTi’s “Corporate near-term criteria version 5.2”. Compatibility of the target with 1.5°C will be assessed when relevant guidance from the EU Commission becomes available. The Company is considering future developments and their impacts on its Scope 3 target, in line with requirements of applicable SBTi guidance and as outlined in the Transition Plan (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). The SBTi Guidance 4.2 methodology was used to set the target and the Company sets-out to update the target at least every five years, in accordance to applicable SBTi guidance. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to develop products and services that enable a reduction of emissions in line with the ambition of the Paris Agreement. A 2050 target has not yet been defined. The set target covers the use of sold products of all commercial aircraft sold (for more information on scope 3 coverage see 6.2.2.8 “GHG emissions”). The target boundaries and baseline value are defined in accordance with SBTi guidance 4.2. The 2015 baseline has been set based on Scope 3 “use of sold product” for commercial aircraft deliveries in 2015, as per SBTi guidance. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, including Strategy, Engineering, Finance, Programmes and Services, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. The Company's progress on the target is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with projections. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. An absolute target has not been defined for Scope 3. Energy The Company aims to reduce purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources across the whole Company reporting scope. This target is aligned with the Scopes 1 & 2 target as the resulting energy consumption reduction is an enabler of the Scopes 1 and 2 target. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, including Facility Management, Industrial Operations, Finance, and Procurement, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. Energy target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources GWh 2030 2,534 -20% 2015 3,167 Scope: Company-wide Assumptions: see “– 6.2.2.2 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5)"" Target achievement is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly and monthly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with expectations. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing and site operations to reduce emissions in line with the ambition of reducing resource consumption and associated emissions. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. Please refer to the section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” for information on decarbonisation levers, plans to adopt new technologies as well as progress against GHG targets. With regards to the energy target related to stationary sources, energy consumption reduced in 2024 despite a production growth context, supported by significant gas consumption containment, better heating monitoring and temperature control as well as clement weather conditions. The 2024 energy target-related metric stood close to the 2030 target, however the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 180"
"Climate adaptation The Company has not set targets for climate adaptation, as this topic is currently managed through the existing risk management process. 6.2.2.7 ​Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Scope of reporting: Reported data covers Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by energy suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling adapted to each metrics. This can be employee-based, surface-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metric. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Energy consumption from nuclear sources was primarily derived from contractual information. When such information is not available, national nuclear percentages defined by the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) have been used. High climate impact sectors used to determine the energy intensity correspond to the categories C Manufacture C30.3.0 - Manufacture of air and spacecraft and related machinery, and C33.1.6 - Repair and maintenance of aircraft and spacecraft amongst those listed in NACE Sections A to H and Section L as defined in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288. As a result, the Company’s total turnover as disclosed in the financial statement is deemed to correspond to the net revenue amount from activities in high climate impact sectors. Climate change metrics Energy consumption and mix Unit 2024 Total Energy Consumption MWh 3,703,856 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 2,278,219 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products MWh 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products MWh 940,425 Fuel consumption from natural gas MWh 920,570 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources MWh 1,953 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources MWh 415,270 Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh 339,256 Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 1,086,381 Fuel consumption from renewable sources MWh 310,375 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources MWh 772,825 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy MWh 3,180 Percentage of energy consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 9.2% Percentage of renewable sources in total energy consumption % 29.3% Percentage of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 61.5% Non-renewable energy production MWh 286,605 Renewable energy production MWh 6,238 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors MWh 3,703,856 Total energy consumption form activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors MWh/ M€ 53.5 Purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources, as per Company energy consumption related target ⚐ Mwh 2,597,029 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 181"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"Direct measurement has been prioritised on certain sites where measured data is regulatory required, while associated cost benefit ratio was deemed insufficient for other sites. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Emissions Metrics - Pollution of Air Unit 2024 VOC tons 155 VOC on Target perimeter ⚐ tons 1,230 6.2.3.4 ​Pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food The Company has identified that its environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities related to pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food are found exclusively within the up- and downstream value chain as a potential impact of the kerosene production processes. An overview of all IROs related to pollution can be found in section “– 6.2.3.1 IROs Pollution”. While LCA leads to identifying such a potential impact, the Company has limited ability to influence the operations of oil & gas companies and does not have any relevant information. 6.2.4 ​ ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources 6.2.4.1 ​Water IROs The following IROs were identified for water: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-3 - Water Water: > Water consumption > Water withdrawals Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the potential impact of water stress - related to climate change - on water consumption, usage and withdrawal in their industrial operations, within a timely manner relative to the onset of such risks. This could lead to production disruptions, which could negatively affect financial performance. / Own Operations Upstream ESRS E-3 - Water Water - Habitat degradation: Impact See Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources in ESRS E2 Pollution The Company’s water usage is mostly linked to non-industrial uses, including sanitary, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, canteens and fire extinguishing. Around one third of the water withdrawn is used for industrial uses such as climate control of industrial facilities (e.g. clean rooms for satellite assembly, paint-shops), surface treatment, machining and non-destructive testing. Procuring the required water does not currently represent a material cost for the Company as overall withdrawn volumes are relatively limited, especially for its industrial operations. However, securing water availability to operate the industrial processes requiring water is critical for the Company to ensure business continuity. Environmental risks and opportunities are managed following the Company’s ERM system, as described in the section “– 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”. This covers among other risks related to water accessibility in areas of high and extremely high water stress. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 191"
"6.2.4.2 ​Policies (E3-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. A focus of the Environmental Policy is on water, where the Company aims to continually explore and implement innovative technologies and solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, including regarding water. While the policy covers water withdrawal reduction, it does not explicitly mention water management, water sourcing, water treatment or the reduction of water usage in areas at water risk. These aspects are nevertheless included in the Company’s management of water related aspects for its own operations and controlled entities perimeter. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the Environmental Policy in section “– 6.2.1. Policies”. 6.2.4.3 ​Actions and resources (E3-2) The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “- 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)). In addition, water related actions target in particular sites located in areas at water risk, including areas with high or extremely high water stress. Metering and monitoring The Company undertakes improvement of water metering and monitoring to better understand water usage and identify deviations and abnormalities. Notable implementations in 2024 include the deployment of digitised and automated real-time water withdrawal monitoring at Company’s sites in Spain and France. Leak management The Company strives to detect, repair and prevent water leakages in order to minimise unnecessary water withdrawal. This continuous initiative received particular focus in 2024 and has led to the identification and repair of several leaks in a number of the Company’s sites in France and the UK. Water reduction and reuse The Company develops water recycling and water reuse systems. For example, in 2024, Company sites have adapted processes and equipment to establish closed-loop systems where water is being reused, such as in the press cooling systems in Bremen, Germany. In addition, the Company aims to reduce its water usage by reviewing its industrial processes and equipment. 2024 examples include upgrade of cooling systems and non-destructive testing processes at locations such as Illescas, Spain and Nantes, France. Rainwater harvesting The Company implements rainwater harvesting in order to replace the use of drinking water in industrial and sanitary equipment. As of the end of 2024, this system has been deployed at several Company sites, including Airbus in Toulouse, France; Broughton, UK; and Airbus Helicopters in Paris-Le Bourget, France. Employee engagement The Company also acts on employee engagement in order to raise awareness on water management challenges. In 2024, this included deploying awareness campaigns, such as communications on the World Water Day via the Company’s intranet as well as onsite awareness-raising activities. Sites assessments In 2023, the Company undertook studies supported by external expertise across several Company sites to evaluate the water management maturity level of these sites and identify relevant opportunities to further reduce water withdrawal. Additionally, other sites have conducted self-assessments using the same methodology. In 2024, this approach was extended to additional sites Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 192"
"All actions are continuous efforts in the context of the 2030 target (see section “– 6.2.4.4. Targets (E3-3)” below), which are renewed annually, aiming to avoid and reduce the usage and withdrawal of water. All of these ongoing actions are embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.4.4 ​Targets (E3-3) The Company has set the following 2030 target (vs. 2015 baseline): -25% reduction in absolute water withdrawal volumes defined by the Company as the sum of purchased water, abstracted groundwater and surface water withdrawal whilst excluding collected rainwater, reclaimed water, brackish coastal water, and “non-contact” water used for geothermal energy generation or heating/cooling; this metric is referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI”. It applies to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities. This target aligns with the vision of the Company's Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing processes and site infrastructures to reduce water withdrawal. This target is voluntary. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. The target is informed by projected local water stress levels according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, version 4.0 (dated August 2023), using the Aqueduct 2030 ""pessimistic"" scenario (aligned with the Company scenario ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"" which includes the data from IPCC SSP5 RCP8.5). To achieve this Company-wide target, the Company has cascaded site-specific targets, acknowledging that the criticality of water challenges is heavily influenced by local factors. These site-specific targets have been determined with relevant stakeholders at each site, based on local context including local water stress levels. Performance against target is monitored monthly, with a review and analysis of trends or significant changes in performance towards achieving the 2030 target on Company level (update EOY). The previous target focused on purchased water only; the target scope has now been expanded to the scope described above. The inclusion of new entities due to the scope extension has led to an update of the baseline value. The primary focus of this target is the reduction of water withdrawal, which supports the reduction of water consumption. Water target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Water withdrawal-related KPI m3 2030 3,225,016 -25% 2015 4,300,021 3,510,180 -18% Water withdrawal (as per target KPI) slightly reduced in 2024 supported by the outcomes of actions described above (see “- 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2)”), in a production growth context. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.4.5 ​Metrics (E3-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Reported data covers Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by water suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). Water consumption is defined as the difference between water withdrawal volumes and water discharge volumes. All volumes of water withdrawal per source and volumes of water discharges by destination are reported by each entity. They can be either obtained from direct measurements (metering or invoice) or estimated (see table below). When water discharge is not measured or partially measured, the discharge volumes can be estimated from the withdrawal volumes depending on the type of usage on site (industrial process, cooling, fire protection, sanitary use...). Water risk and water stress indicators are obtained for each site based on the site’s geographical location, using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 “baseline” data, World Resources Institute as follows: areas of high water stress: the Aqueduct “Water stress” indicator is used; sites in ""high"" and ""extremely high"" water stress locations are considered; areas at water risk: the Aqueduct “Overall water risk” indicator is used; sites in Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 193"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"6.2.4.2 ​Policies (E3-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. A focus of the Environmental Policy is on water, where the Company aims to continually explore and implement innovative technologies and solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, including regarding water. While the policy covers water withdrawal reduction, it does not explicitly mention water management, water sourcing, water treatment or the reduction of water usage in areas at water risk. These aspects are nevertheless included in the Company’s management of water related aspects for its own operations and controlled entities perimeter. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the Environmental Policy in section “– 6.2.1. Policies”. 6.2.4.3 ​Actions and resources (E3-2) The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “- 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)). In addition, water related actions target in particular sites located in areas at water risk, including areas with high or extremely high water stress. Metering and monitoring The Company undertakes improvement of water metering and monitoring to better understand water usage and identify deviations and abnormalities. Notable implementations in 2024 include the deployment of digitised and automated real-time water withdrawal monitoring at Company’s sites in Spain and France. Leak management The Company strives to detect, repair and prevent water leakages in order to minimise unnecessary water withdrawal. This continuous initiative received particular focus in 2024 and has led to the identification and repair of several leaks in a number of the Company’s sites in France and the UK. Water reduction and reuse The Company develops water recycling and water reuse systems. For example, in 2024, Company sites have adapted processes and equipment to establish closed-loop systems where water is being reused, such as in the press cooling systems in Bremen, Germany. In addition, the Company aims to reduce its water usage by reviewing its industrial processes and equipment. 2024 examples include upgrade of cooling systems and non-destructive testing processes at locations such as Illescas, Spain and Nantes, France. Rainwater harvesting The Company implements rainwater harvesting in order to replace the use of drinking water in industrial and sanitary equipment. As of the end of 2024, this system has been deployed at several Company sites, including Airbus in Toulouse, France; Broughton, UK; and Airbus Helicopters in Paris-Le Bourget, France. Employee engagement The Company also acts on employee engagement in order to raise awareness on water management challenges. In 2024, this included deploying awareness campaigns, such as communications on the World Water Day via the Company’s intranet as well as onsite awareness-raising activities. Sites assessments In 2023, the Company undertook studies supported by external expertise across several Company sites to evaluate the water management maturity level of these sites and identify relevant opportunities to further reduce water withdrawal. Additionally, other sites have conducted self-assessments using the same methodology. In 2024, this approach was extended to additional sites Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 192"
"All actions are continuous efforts in the context of the 2030 target (see section “– 6.2.4.4. Targets (E3-3)” below), which are renewed annually, aiming to avoid and reduce the usage and withdrawal of water. All of these ongoing actions are embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.4.4 ​Targets (E3-3) The Company has set the following 2030 target (vs. 2015 baseline): -25% reduction in absolute water withdrawal volumes defined by the Company as the sum of purchased water, abstracted groundwater and surface water withdrawal whilst excluding collected rainwater, reclaimed water, brackish coastal water, and “non-contact” water used for geothermal energy generation or heating/cooling; this metric is referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI”. It applies to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities. This target aligns with the vision of the Company's Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing processes and site infrastructures to reduce water withdrawal. This target is voluntary. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. The target is informed by projected local water stress levels according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, version 4.0 (dated August 2023), using the Aqueduct 2030 ""pessimistic"" scenario (aligned with the Company scenario ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"" which includes the data from IPCC SSP5 RCP8.5). To achieve this Company-wide target, the Company has cascaded site-specific targets, acknowledging that the criticality of water challenges is heavily influenced by local factors. These site-specific targets have been determined with relevant stakeholders at each site, based on local context including local water stress levels. Performance against target is monitored monthly, with a review and analysis of trends or significant changes in performance towards achieving the 2030 target on Company level (update EOY). The previous target focused on purchased water only; the target scope has now been expanded to the scope described above. The inclusion of new entities due to the scope extension has led to an update of the baseline value. The primary focus of this target is the reduction of water withdrawal, which supports the reduction of water consumption. Water target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Water withdrawal-related KPI m3 2030 3,225,016 -25% 2015 4,300,021 3,510,180 -18% Water withdrawal (as per target KPI) slightly reduced in 2024 supported by the outcomes of actions described above (see “- 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2)”), in a production growth context. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.4.5 ​Metrics (E3-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Reported data covers Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by water suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). Water consumption is defined as the difference between water withdrawal volumes and water discharge volumes. All volumes of water withdrawal per source and volumes of water discharges by destination are reported by each entity. They can be either obtained from direct measurements (metering or invoice) or estimated (see table below). When water discharge is not measured or partially measured, the discharge volumes can be estimated from the withdrawal volumes depending on the type of usage on site (industrial process, cooling, fire protection, sanitary use...). Water risk and water stress indicators are obtained for each site based on the site’s geographical location, using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 “baseline” data, World Resources Institute as follows: areas of high water stress: the Aqueduct “Water stress” indicator is used; sites in ""high"" and ""extremely high"" water stress locations are considered; areas at water risk: the Aqueduct “Overall water risk” indicator is used; sites in Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 193"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"organisation such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap. ●​ “Reduce” - increase the lifespan of components - A large part of the Company's aircraft products' components last for the aircraft service lifetime, which exceeds 20 years on average. Some components, called life-limited parts (“LLPs”), have a lifetime which is limited for the purposes of airworthiness requirements and need to be replaced at specific intervals based on the aircraft age and usage. ●​ “Repairability - reuse - second life” - With regards to LLPs, easy replacement and availability of parts over the whole programme lifetime are a priority. The Company’s products are maintained and repaired by a number of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MROs) companies and spare parts providers worldwide. The Company's after-sale activities include the sale of spare parts and the provision of maintenance, repair and overhaul services. ●​ “Recycling” - Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company is working on specific initiatives, such as specific loop creation for titanium (see waste related actions) 6.2.6.1 ​Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs The following IROs were identified for resource use and circular economy : ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Actual negative impact The aviation sector's use of titanium in the production of aircraft components represents a relatively high percentage of the resource's global stock and may affect global resource availability. Short-term, mid-term, long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Risk The risk of titanium supply disruption could have an impact on aircraft production and deliveries, which could affect financial performance. / Own operations, Upstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Waste Opportunity An opportunity to reduce waste may arise from optimising the recovery of industrial waste, such as high-value metallic scraps. This could contribute to more efficient industrial processes and to further secure supply and production, which could contribute to financial performance. / Own operations 6.2.6.2 ​Policies (E5-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company’s commitment to reducing environmental impact during production and throughout the product life cycle, eco-design, circularity, and end-of-life considerations (including waste management in its own industrial operations). The Policy focuses on minimising resource depletion (including virgin resources) and the increased use of secondary materials to deliver innovative products and services, although it does not explicitly mention transitioning away from use of virgin resources nor sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources. All considerations for optimising material use shall also, under no circumstance, be detrimental to product safety and shall meet all technical requirements from stringent certification standards. The Airbus Environmental Policy also emphasises the importance of transitioning from a linear economy to a circular one, diverting waste from landfills and avoiding the depletion of natural resources. The policy does not explicitly mention waste hierarchy nor cover the prioritisation of avoidance. The Company's main industrial waste is composed of metallic waste, general waste, chemical waste and packaging waste. Waste from industrial activities represents about three quarters of the total waste generated by the Company’s sites, the remaining portion being waste generated in offices and canteens. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 196"
"Overview of how the management of topics related to identified IROs have a noticeable interaction with the Company's strategy, business and operating model: IRO related (sub)topic*: Company business model key dimensions include: Product policy & development Sales / aftersales / services Industrial set up Manuf acturing & logistics Workforce & working conditions Procure ment Processes / BMS ENVIRONMENT - Climate change adaptation - Climate change mitigation - Energy ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Pollution of air (VOC) - Substances of (very high) concern - Pollution of water and of living organisms...** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Water withdrawal / consumption - Water - Habitat degradation ** ✔ ✔ - Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss and impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems - Biodiversity loss drivers - pollution ** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Resource inflow - Waste ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ SOCIAL Own workforce - Occupational health and safety - Social dialogue, freedom of association, collective bargaining - Diversity ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Workers in value chain - Occupational health and safety - Forced or child labour ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Personal safety of consumers and/or end users ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ GOVERNANCE - Corporate culture - Speak up culture - Management of relationships with suppliers - Corruption and bribery ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ COMPANY SPECIFIC - Cybersecurity ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ * For detailed IROs description, see respective topical ESRS; ** material impact related to kerosene production. Not Applicable 6.1.1.4 ​IRO: Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.4.1 ​ IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs All CSRD proposed items were assessed through individual analysis at the lowest granularity (IROs) level. Some company specific potential topics were added to this assessment universe, such as cybersecurity. For most environmental subtopics, differentiated assessments were performed across the value chain: own operations / upstream / downstream. To the extent such data is available and accurate enough, quantitative scoring substantiation was systematically preferred to qualitative judgement. The assessment was documented. Concerned functions or roadmaps were systematically involved in the process for the topics they are respectively in charge of, as presented in the governance section. Accordingly, topic impact assessment is aligned with the Company Due Diligence process step related to the identification of impacts, which are then tackled by respective concerned functions or roadmaps. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 147"
"Impact materiality, i.e. actual or potential impacts on people and the environment. The Company evaluated the actual or potential impact of its activities on environment and people - e.g. employees, end users, and local communities. Scoring was established taking into account the severity (scale, scope, remediability - for negative impacts -) and likelihood of such impact and using predefined scoring grids. Materiality threshold was determined considering the associated “severity vs. likelihood” combinations deemed relevant to reflect materiality and to support topic prioritisation. For topics related to potential impacts on people, a high severity score overruled a low score of likelihood. All Company activities and sites are deemed to be considered in this analysis, with a focus on manufacturing of commercial aircraft activity, also taking into account the presumed great commonality of sustainability impact given the similarities in materials used and manufacturing process for helicopters, military aircraft, and satellites. The full value chain was considered, with again a focus on the impact related to the use of commercial aircraft as the magnitude of related impact was deemed higher given the nature and frequency of operations in the respective product lifetimes. This analysis also relied on an understanding of the Company’s own operations, supply chain, or other business relationships as the presence and severity of potential or actual adverse impacts is influenced by various factors, such as: the type of industry, products/services, operations and their associated inherent risks; the country and operating context, considering for instance publicly available statistics and indices or the existence of related environmental or social regulations or relevant voluntary standards and associated thresholds eventually or other relevant scientific sources of information (e.g. planet boundaries, environmental exposure atlas...). Assessment scores were substantiated by quantified data as much as possible, using a number of sources of information. These include internal information such as: -​ Life Cycle Analysis, information from topical experts, related internal metrics performance (past or ongoing impacts); -​ outputs from third party due diligence, internal control reports, or information collected during visits to supplier sites; -​ elements from findings and alerts from, for example, desktop Supplier Sustainability Maturity Assessments, onsite assessments (including social assessments) or from the grievance mechanism; -​ inputs obtained as part of stakeholder engagement (see “– 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders”); as well as external information such as topical and sectoral benchmarks or public reports, and regulatory thresholds. Impact materiality assessment was also supported by the engagement with stakeholders, consistently with the overall stakeholder engagement approach presented in the dedicated disclosure requirement. This includes direct consultation of internal and external experts, information collected from stakeholders through the continuous stakeholder engagement, and from affected stakeholders or their relevant proxies (eg. employees through surveys, content of social dialogue, customers feedback...). The consideration of regulatory thresholds, or topical standards or reference frameworks were also deemed to represent ‘silent’ stakeholders’ interests (e.g. nature). Impact on the Company or financial materiality The potential impact of sustainability-related topics on the Company’s financial performance was assessed by combining -1- a screening and reassignment of the top company risks and opportunities extracted from the company’s enterprise risk management (“ERM”) system to sustainability subtopics assessed following ERM methods and -2- an exhaustive screening of the CSRD-proposed list of subtopics, for which both the associated financial impact level and its likelihood were reassessed. A threshold corresponding to a percentage of EBIT was used, aligned with the relevance threshold for financial statements, alongside equivalent qualitative impact types (e.g. Brand, Compliance etc.). The use of climate scenarios supported the identification of connected impact and dependencies that eventually led to complementing the risk picture (e.g. climate technology risk and energy ecosystem risk). More generally the scrutiny of the Company's business and operating model interdependencies with each sub-topic including through exchanges with topical experts supported the above-mentioned screening. Double materiality assessment was formally presented to and endorsed by the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. It also supports Internal Control ́s prioritisation of work. Sustainability risks and opportunities are integrated into the ERM system and processes, including their identification, assessment and management. Consequently, they are part of the Company risk picture and addressed as defined by the overall process (see “– Corporate Governance – 3.2 Enterprise Risk Management System”). Impacts are covered by the Company Due Diligence process, as presented in the related disclosure requirements. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 148"
"In 2024, the Company updated its double-materiality assessment and refined its methodology to align it with CSRD requirements, as described hereinabove. As recommended in the non-binding Implementation Guidelines for Materiality Assessment, the Company intends to confirm or review (and update) its material matters once a year by taking into account: whether or not material changes in the Company's organisational and operational structure occurred, whether or not external factors occurred in the reporting year, and/or whether or not substantial new information was obtained as the Company progresses in its understanding of topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities. Depending on the significance of these events and developments, the Company would either review the existing DMA or perform a full-scale DMA to ensure the material sustainability matters are properly reported. The 2025 review process is likely to include a benchmark analysis derived from first CSRD reports from other European companies. Complementary disclosure requirements for specific topical ESRS on the description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: E1 Climate change The Company performed an advanced climate impact and risk assessment. This included the consideration of an analysis of GHG emissions from own operations, a screening of all Scope 3 categories, that identified the usage of Airbus products (i.e. Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products) as representing a significant proportion of total emissions. Share of Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products emission in total emissions >90% The Company also identified climate related risks following a TCFD-aligned approach, that included a screening of its sites and assets potential vulnerabilities to climate hazards (see “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”. Such analyses considered time horizons, assumptions and scenarios (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)“). See “– 6.2.2 E1 - Climate Change” chapter for full description. E2 Pollution IRO identification processes considered all business operations and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company has screened the annual declarations made by its sites to local authorities in the context of the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) regulation. Number of facilities exceeding the 100 tonnes threshold for VOC emissions listed in the E-PRTR regulation Annex II. 1 (Hamburg) Impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, such as the one in relation with kerosene production. For SOC/SOVHC, risks and opportunities have also been assessed using the register of the Company’s top company risks, according to the ERM process. This risk notably applies to aircraft manufacturing and is therefore connected to all sites with such industrial operations and handling chemicals. The materiality assessment did not involve direct consultations with affected communities. E3 Water and marine resources IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites from which environmental data is collected (see “– 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)” and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company analysed current and projected local water stress levels to understand where the Company’s activities have the greatest impact on water resources and where risks of business disruption linked to restrictions on the use of water are the most significant. This analysis is based inter alia on the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas; this analysis was last updated with the August 2023 update of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (version 4.0), using the “baseline” data as well as the 2030 scenarios. This analysis allowed to identify that the Company operates facilities located in high or extremely high water stress areas in Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Morocco, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia, UK, US. It includes sites from Commercial Aircraft, Airbus Helicopters and Airbus Defence and Space. As for ESRS E2, impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. The materiality assessment did not involve consultations with affected communities. E4 Biodiversity The Company is still progressing its understanding of the impact of its activities and those of its value chain on biodiversity. IRO identification was informed by the IPBES report's findings that there are five significant drivers of biodiversity loss: changing use of sea and lands, direct exploitation of organisms, Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 149"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 2(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 157"
"paragraphs 40 to 43 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 44 Indicators number 1 and 2 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 5(1), 6 and 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 55 Indicators number 3 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 56 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a) ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk. Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraph 34; Template 2:Banking book -Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property - Energy efficiency of the collateral Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities paragraph 69 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 Indicator number 8 Table #1 of Annex 1 Indicator number 2 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 1 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 3 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) (Air pollution - VOC) ESRS E3-1 Water and marine Indicator number 7 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 158"
"resources paragraph 9 ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 Indicator number 8 Table 2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) Indicator number 6.2 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 Indicator number 6.1 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i Indicator number 7 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) Indicator number 10 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) Indicator number 14 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24(b) Indicator number 11 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) Indicator number 15 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) Indicator number 13 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 Indicator number 9 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) (Radioactive waste - Not material) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 159"
"ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labour paragraph 14 (f) Indicator number 13 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g) Indicator number 12 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 20 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S1-1 processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 Indicator number 11 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 Indicator number 1 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-3 grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) Indicator number 5 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work- related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) Indicator number 2 Table #3 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) Indicator number 3 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) Indicator number 12 Table #1 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) Indicator number 8 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) Indicator number 7 Table #3 of Annex I Not material Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 160"
"ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD Guidelines paragraph 104 (a) Indicator number 10 Table #1 and Indicator n. 14 Table #3 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 Art 12 (1) Not material ESRS 2- SBM-3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain paragraph 11 (b) Indicators number 12 and n. 13 Table #3 of Annex I 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs ESRS S2-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 17 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator n. 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 18 Indicator number 11 and n. 4 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) ESRS S2-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines paragraph 19 Indicator number 10 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 19 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S2-4 Human rights issues and incidents connected to its upstream and downstream value chain paragraph 36 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) ESRS S3-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 16 Indicator number 9 Table #3 of Annex 1 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS S3-1 non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights, ILO principles or OECD guidelines paragraph 17 Indicator number 10 Table #1 Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) Not material ESRS S3-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 36 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users paragraph 16 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 161"
"areas. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Raw material management including substitution Where technically feasible, the Company reduces the solvent consumption and environmental impact of used raw material by deploying paints/coatings and adhesives with a lower VOC content (high solid systems) as well as water-based systems. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Cleaning techniques Where technically feasible, the Company implements several measures to reduce VOC emissions from cleaning processes. These measures include the use of pre-impregnated wipes in manual cleaning, the substitution of VOC-based cleaners with low-volatility or water-based cleaning agents, and the use of enclosed washing machines for tool cleaning. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Coating processes The Company aims to minimise raw material consumption and the overall environmental impact of coating processes by employing advanced spraying techniques such as air-assisted airless spraying and electrostatically assisted spraying. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. These actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s operations. 6.2.3.3.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company has defined the following voluntary target aligned with its environmental policy, that should also be put in perspective with the Airbus production ramp up over the 2015-2030 period, on its own operations and operationally controlled entities (see “– 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4)”). Emissions target Pollution of Air Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs baseline VOC emissions in absolute terms tons 2030 1,498 0% increase 2015 1,498 1,230 -18% The methodologies and assumptions for setting this target are based on internal analysis of actionable levers (see section “– 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2)”) and also take into account production ramp-up planning. While regulatory thresholds were taken into account in establishing this target, no specific additional direct relation to scientific evidence or stakeholder involvement was considered. The metrics for this target have not changed since its inception. 2024 VOC emission trend followed aircraft production. 2024 VOC emissions stood below the 2030 target while the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.3.3.4 ​ Metrics (E2-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Only the Hamburg site exceeds the threshold specified in ESRS E2 for VOC reporting (as per Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006). In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter (VOC on Target perimeter). On this perimeter, most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling activity-based extrapolation modeling. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). The main VOC emissions sources derive from surface treatment, cleaning, painting and coating operations through the use of the following materials: Solvents: halogenated (TCE, MC), non-halogenated and ODS (Ozone Depleting Substance) solvents (HFCF 141b) excluding paints and coatings; Solvated paints and coatings: primers, wash primers, topcoats and specific coating (for structural & non-structural parts). When VOC emissions are not measured by the concerned entity, a computation is performed by the concerned entities and is mainly based on a mass-balance approach, therefore taking into account the quantity of VOC in above-mentioned consumed materials (excluding wasted products). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 190"
"Direct measurement has been prioritised on certain sites where measured data is regulatory required, while associated cost benefit ratio was deemed insufficient for other sites. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Emissions Metrics - Pollution of Air Unit 2024 VOC tons 155 VOC on Target perimeter ⚐ tons 1,230 6.2.3.4 ​Pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food The Company has identified that its environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities related to pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food are found exclusively within the up- and downstream value chain as a potential impact of the kerosene production processes. An overview of all IROs related to pollution can be found in section “– 6.2.3.1 IROs Pollution”. While LCA leads to identifying such a potential impact, the Company has limited ability to influence the operations of oil & gas companies and does not have any relevant information. 6.2.4 ​ ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources 6.2.4.1 ​Water IROs The following IROs were identified for water: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-3 - Water Water: > Water consumption > Water withdrawals Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the potential impact of water stress - related to climate change - on water consumption, usage and withdrawal in their industrial operations, within a timely manner relative to the onset of such risks. This could lead to production disruptions, which could negatively affect financial performance. / Own Operations Upstream ESRS E-3 - Water Water - Habitat degradation: Impact See Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources in ESRS E2 Pollution The Company’s water usage is mostly linked to non-industrial uses, including sanitary, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, canteens and fire extinguishing. Around one third of the water withdrawn is used for industrial uses such as climate control of industrial facilities (e.g. clean rooms for satellite assembly, paint-shops), surface treatment, machining and non-destructive testing. Procuring the required water does not currently represent a material cost for the Company as overall withdrawn volumes are relatively limited, especially for its industrial operations. However, securing water availability to operate the industrial processes requiring water is critical for the Company to ensure business continuity. Environmental risks and opportunities are managed following the Company’s ERM system, as described in the section “– 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”. This covers among other risks related to water accessibility in areas of high and extremely high water stress. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 191"
"6.2.4.2 ​Policies (E3-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. A focus of the Environmental Policy is on water, where the Company aims to continually explore and implement innovative technologies and solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, including regarding water. While the policy covers water withdrawal reduction, it does not explicitly mention water management, water sourcing, water treatment or the reduction of water usage in areas at water risk. These aspects are nevertheless included in the Company’s management of water related aspects for its own operations and controlled entities perimeter. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the Environmental Policy in section “– 6.2.1. Policies”. 6.2.4.3 ​Actions and resources (E3-2) The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “- 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)). In addition, water related actions target in particular sites located in areas at water risk, including areas with high or extremely high water stress. Metering and monitoring The Company undertakes improvement of water metering and monitoring to better understand water usage and identify deviations and abnormalities. Notable implementations in 2024 include the deployment of digitised and automated real-time water withdrawal monitoring at Company’s sites in Spain and France. Leak management The Company strives to detect, repair and prevent water leakages in order to minimise unnecessary water withdrawal. This continuous initiative received particular focus in 2024 and has led to the identification and repair of several leaks in a number of the Company’s sites in France and the UK. Water reduction and reuse The Company develops water recycling and water reuse systems. For example, in 2024, Company sites have adapted processes and equipment to establish closed-loop systems where water is being reused, such as in the press cooling systems in Bremen, Germany. In addition, the Company aims to reduce its water usage by reviewing its industrial processes and equipment. 2024 examples include upgrade of cooling systems and non-destructive testing processes at locations such as Illescas, Spain and Nantes, France. Rainwater harvesting The Company implements rainwater harvesting in order to replace the use of drinking water in industrial and sanitary equipment. As of the end of 2024, this system has been deployed at several Company sites, including Airbus in Toulouse, France; Broughton, UK; and Airbus Helicopters in Paris-Le Bourget, France. Employee engagement The Company also acts on employee engagement in order to raise awareness on water management challenges. In 2024, this included deploying awareness campaigns, such as communications on the World Water Day via the Company’s intranet as well as onsite awareness-raising activities. Sites assessments In 2023, the Company undertook studies supported by external expertise across several Company sites to evaluate the water management maturity level of these sites and identify relevant opportunities to further reduce water withdrawal. Additionally, other sites have conducted self-assessments using the same methodology. In 2024, this approach was extended to additional sites Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 192"
"All actions are continuous efforts in the context of the 2030 target (see section “– 6.2.4.4. Targets (E3-3)” below), which are renewed annually, aiming to avoid and reduce the usage and withdrawal of water. All of these ongoing actions are embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.4.4 ​Targets (E3-3) The Company has set the following 2030 target (vs. 2015 baseline): -25% reduction in absolute water withdrawal volumes defined by the Company as the sum of purchased water, abstracted groundwater and surface water withdrawal whilst excluding collected rainwater, reclaimed water, brackish coastal water, and “non-contact” water used for geothermal energy generation or heating/cooling; this metric is referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI”. It applies to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities. This target aligns with the vision of the Company's Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing processes and site infrastructures to reduce water withdrawal. This target is voluntary. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. The target is informed by projected local water stress levels according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, version 4.0 (dated August 2023), using the Aqueduct 2030 ""pessimistic"" scenario (aligned with the Company scenario ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"" which includes the data from IPCC SSP5 RCP8.5). To achieve this Company-wide target, the Company has cascaded site-specific targets, acknowledging that the criticality of water challenges is heavily influenced by local factors. These site-specific targets have been determined with relevant stakeholders at each site, based on local context including local water stress levels. Performance against target is monitored monthly, with a review and analysis of trends or significant changes in performance towards achieving the 2030 target on Company level (update EOY). The previous target focused on purchased water only; the target scope has now been expanded to the scope described above. The inclusion of new entities due to the scope extension has led to an update of the baseline value. The primary focus of this target is the reduction of water withdrawal, which supports the reduction of water consumption. Water target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Water withdrawal-related KPI m3 2030 3,225,016 -25% 2015 4,300,021 3,510,180 -18% Water withdrawal (as per target KPI) slightly reduced in 2024 supported by the outcomes of actions described above (see “- 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2)”), in a production growth context. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.4.5 ​Metrics (E3-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Reported data covers Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by water suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). Water consumption is defined as the difference between water withdrawal volumes and water discharge volumes. All volumes of water withdrawal per source and volumes of water discharges by destination are reported by each entity. They can be either obtained from direct measurements (metering or invoice) or estimated (see table below). When water discharge is not measured or partially measured, the discharge volumes can be estimated from the withdrawal volumes depending on the type of usage on site (industrial process, cooling, fire protection, sanitary use...). Water risk and water stress indicators are obtained for each site based on the site’s geographical location, using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 “baseline” data, World Resources Institute as follows: areas of high water stress: the Aqueduct “Water stress” indicator is used; sites in ""high"" and ""extremely high"" water stress locations are considered; areas at water risk: the Aqueduct “Overall water risk” indicator is used; sites in Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 193"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"Direct measurement has been prioritised on certain sites where measured data is regulatory required, while associated cost benefit ratio was deemed insufficient for other sites. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Emissions Metrics - Pollution of Air Unit 2024 VOC tons 155 VOC on Target perimeter ⚐ tons 1,230 6.2.3.4 ​Pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food The Company has identified that its environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities related to pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food are found exclusively within the up- and downstream value chain as a potential impact of the kerosene production processes. An overview of all IROs related to pollution can be found in section “– 6.2.3.1 IROs Pollution”. While LCA leads to identifying such a potential impact, the Company has limited ability to influence the operations of oil & gas companies and does not have any relevant information. 6.2.4 ​ ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources 6.2.4.1 ​Water IROs The following IROs were identified for water: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-3 - Water Water: > Water consumption > Water withdrawals Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the potential impact of water stress - related to climate change - on water consumption, usage and withdrawal in their industrial operations, within a timely manner relative to the onset of such risks. This could lead to production disruptions, which could negatively affect financial performance. / Own Operations Upstream ESRS E-3 - Water Water - Habitat degradation: Impact See Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources in ESRS E2 Pollution The Company’s water usage is mostly linked to non-industrial uses, including sanitary, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, canteens and fire extinguishing. Around one third of the water withdrawn is used for industrial uses such as climate control of industrial facilities (e.g. clean rooms for satellite assembly, paint-shops), surface treatment, machining and non-destructive testing. Procuring the required water does not currently represent a material cost for the Company as overall withdrawn volumes are relatively limited, especially for its industrial operations. However, securing water availability to operate the industrial processes requiring water is critical for the Company to ensure business continuity. Environmental risks and opportunities are managed following the Company’s ERM system, as described in the section “– 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”. This covers among other risks related to water accessibility in areas of high and extremely high water stress. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 191"
"6.2.4.2 ​Policies (E3-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. A focus of the Environmental Policy is on water, where the Company aims to continually explore and implement innovative technologies and solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, including regarding water. While the policy covers water withdrawal reduction, it does not explicitly mention water management, water sourcing, water treatment or the reduction of water usage in areas at water risk. These aspects are nevertheless included in the Company’s management of water related aspects for its own operations and controlled entities perimeter. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the Environmental Policy in section “– 6.2.1. Policies”. 6.2.4.3 ​Actions and resources (E3-2) The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “- 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)). In addition, water related actions target in particular sites located in areas at water risk, including areas with high or extremely high water stress. Metering and monitoring The Company undertakes improvement of water metering and monitoring to better understand water usage and identify deviations and abnormalities. Notable implementations in 2024 include the deployment of digitised and automated real-time water withdrawal monitoring at Company’s sites in Spain and France. Leak management The Company strives to detect, repair and prevent water leakages in order to minimise unnecessary water withdrawal. This continuous initiative received particular focus in 2024 and has led to the identification and repair of several leaks in a number of the Company’s sites in France and the UK. Water reduction and reuse The Company develops water recycling and water reuse systems. For example, in 2024, Company sites have adapted processes and equipment to establish closed-loop systems where water is being reused, such as in the press cooling systems in Bremen, Germany. In addition, the Company aims to reduce its water usage by reviewing its industrial processes and equipment. 2024 examples include upgrade of cooling systems and non-destructive testing processes at locations such as Illescas, Spain and Nantes, France. Rainwater harvesting The Company implements rainwater harvesting in order to replace the use of drinking water in industrial and sanitary equipment. As of the end of 2024, this system has been deployed at several Company sites, including Airbus in Toulouse, France; Broughton, UK; and Airbus Helicopters in Paris-Le Bourget, France. Employee engagement The Company also acts on employee engagement in order to raise awareness on water management challenges. In 2024, this included deploying awareness campaigns, such as communications on the World Water Day via the Company’s intranet as well as onsite awareness-raising activities. Sites assessments In 2023, the Company undertook studies supported by external expertise across several Company sites to evaluate the water management maturity level of these sites and identify relevant opportunities to further reduce water withdrawal. Additionally, other sites have conducted self-assessments using the same methodology. In 2024, this approach was extended to additional sites Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 192"
"All actions are continuous efforts in the context of the 2030 target (see section “– 6.2.4.4. Targets (E3-3)” below), which are renewed annually, aiming to avoid and reduce the usage and withdrawal of water. All of these ongoing actions are embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.4.4 ​Targets (E3-3) The Company has set the following 2030 target (vs. 2015 baseline): -25% reduction in absolute water withdrawal volumes defined by the Company as the sum of purchased water, abstracted groundwater and surface water withdrawal whilst excluding collected rainwater, reclaimed water, brackish coastal water, and “non-contact” water used for geothermal energy generation or heating/cooling; this metric is referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI”. It applies to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities. This target aligns with the vision of the Company's Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing processes and site infrastructures to reduce water withdrawal. This target is voluntary. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. The target is informed by projected local water stress levels according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, version 4.0 (dated August 2023), using the Aqueduct 2030 ""pessimistic"" scenario (aligned with the Company scenario ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"" which includes the data from IPCC SSP5 RCP8.5). To achieve this Company-wide target, the Company has cascaded site-specific targets, acknowledging that the criticality of water challenges is heavily influenced by local factors. These site-specific targets have been determined with relevant stakeholders at each site, based on local context including local water stress levels. Performance against target is monitored monthly, with a review and analysis of trends or significant changes in performance towards achieving the 2030 target on Company level (update EOY). The previous target focused on purchased water only; the target scope has now been expanded to the scope described above. The inclusion of new entities due to the scope extension has led to an update of the baseline value. The primary focus of this target is the reduction of water withdrawal, which supports the reduction of water consumption. Water target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Water withdrawal-related KPI m3 2030 3,225,016 -25% 2015 4,300,021 3,510,180 -18% Water withdrawal (as per target KPI) slightly reduced in 2024 supported by the outcomes of actions described above (see “- 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2)”), in a production growth context. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.4.5 ​Metrics (E3-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Reported data covers Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by water suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). Water consumption is defined as the difference between water withdrawal volumes and water discharge volumes. All volumes of water withdrawal per source and volumes of water discharges by destination are reported by each entity. They can be either obtained from direct measurements (metering or invoice) or estimated (see table below). When water discharge is not measured or partially measured, the discharge volumes can be estimated from the withdrawal volumes depending on the type of usage on site (industrial process, cooling, fire protection, sanitary use...). Water risk and water stress indicators are obtained for each site based on the site’s geographical location, using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 “baseline” data, World Resources Institute as follows: areas of high water stress: the Aqueduct “Water stress” indicator is used; sites in ""high"" and ""extremely high"" water stress locations are considered; areas at water risk: the Aqueduct “Overall water risk” indicator is used; sites in Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 193"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"6.2.4.2 ​Policies (E3-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. A focus of the Environmental Policy is on water, where the Company aims to continually explore and implement innovative technologies and solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, including regarding water. While the policy covers water withdrawal reduction, it does not explicitly mention water management, water sourcing, water treatment or the reduction of water usage in areas at water risk. These aspects are nevertheless included in the Company’s management of water related aspects for its own operations and controlled entities perimeter. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the Environmental Policy in section “– 6.2.1. Policies”. 6.2.4.3 ​Actions and resources (E3-2) The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “- 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)). In addition, water related actions target in particular sites located in areas at water risk, including areas with high or extremely high water stress. Metering and monitoring The Company undertakes improvement of water metering and monitoring to better understand water usage and identify deviations and abnormalities. Notable implementations in 2024 include the deployment of digitised and automated real-time water withdrawal monitoring at Company’s sites in Spain and France. Leak management The Company strives to detect, repair and prevent water leakages in order to minimise unnecessary water withdrawal. This continuous initiative received particular focus in 2024 and has led to the identification and repair of several leaks in a number of the Company’s sites in France and the UK. Water reduction and reuse The Company develops water recycling and water reuse systems. For example, in 2024, Company sites have adapted processes and equipment to establish closed-loop systems where water is being reused, such as in the press cooling systems in Bremen, Germany. In addition, the Company aims to reduce its water usage by reviewing its industrial processes and equipment. 2024 examples include upgrade of cooling systems and non-destructive testing processes at locations such as Illescas, Spain and Nantes, France. Rainwater harvesting The Company implements rainwater harvesting in order to replace the use of drinking water in industrial and sanitary equipment. As of the end of 2024, this system has been deployed at several Company sites, including Airbus in Toulouse, France; Broughton, UK; and Airbus Helicopters in Paris-Le Bourget, France. Employee engagement The Company also acts on employee engagement in order to raise awareness on water management challenges. In 2024, this included deploying awareness campaigns, such as communications on the World Water Day via the Company’s intranet as well as onsite awareness-raising activities. Sites assessments In 2023, the Company undertook studies supported by external expertise across several Company sites to evaluate the water management maturity level of these sites and identify relevant opportunities to further reduce water withdrawal. Additionally, other sites have conducted self-assessments using the same methodology. In 2024, this approach was extended to additional sites Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 192"
"All actions are continuous efforts in the context of the 2030 target (see section “– 6.2.4.4. Targets (E3-3)” below), which are renewed annually, aiming to avoid and reduce the usage and withdrawal of water. All of these ongoing actions are embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.4.4 ​Targets (E3-3) The Company has set the following 2030 target (vs. 2015 baseline): -25% reduction in absolute water withdrawal volumes defined by the Company as the sum of purchased water, abstracted groundwater and surface water withdrawal whilst excluding collected rainwater, reclaimed water, brackish coastal water, and “non-contact” water used for geothermal energy generation or heating/cooling; this metric is referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI”. It applies to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities. This target aligns with the vision of the Company's Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing processes and site infrastructures to reduce water withdrawal. This target is voluntary. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. The target is informed by projected local water stress levels according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, version 4.0 (dated August 2023), using the Aqueduct 2030 ""pessimistic"" scenario (aligned with the Company scenario ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"" which includes the data from IPCC SSP5 RCP8.5). To achieve this Company-wide target, the Company has cascaded site-specific targets, acknowledging that the criticality of water challenges is heavily influenced by local factors. These site-specific targets have been determined with relevant stakeholders at each site, based on local context including local water stress levels. Performance against target is monitored monthly, with a review and analysis of trends or significant changes in performance towards achieving the 2030 target on Company level (update EOY). The previous target focused on purchased water only; the target scope has now been expanded to the scope described above. The inclusion of new entities due to the scope extension has led to an update of the baseline value. The primary focus of this target is the reduction of water withdrawal, which supports the reduction of water consumption. Water target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Water withdrawal-related KPI m3 2030 3,225,016 -25% 2015 4,300,021 3,510,180 -18% Water withdrawal (as per target KPI) slightly reduced in 2024 supported by the outcomes of actions described above (see “- 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2)”), in a production growth context. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.4.5 ​Metrics (E3-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Reported data covers Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by water suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). Water consumption is defined as the difference between water withdrawal volumes and water discharge volumes. All volumes of water withdrawal per source and volumes of water discharges by destination are reported by each entity. They can be either obtained from direct measurements (metering or invoice) or estimated (see table below). When water discharge is not measured or partially measured, the discharge volumes can be estimated from the withdrawal volumes depending on the type of usage on site (industrial process, cooling, fire protection, sanitary use...). Water risk and water stress indicators are obtained for each site based on the site’s geographical location, using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 “baseline” data, World Resources Institute as follows: areas of high water stress: the Aqueduct “Water stress” indicator is used; sites in ""high"" and ""extremely high"" water stress locations are considered; areas at water risk: the Aqueduct “Overall water risk” indicator is used; sites in Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 193"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"organisation such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap. ●​ “Reduce” - increase the lifespan of components - A large part of the Company's aircraft products' components last for the aircraft service lifetime, which exceeds 20 years on average. Some components, called life-limited parts (“LLPs”), have a lifetime which is limited for the purposes of airworthiness requirements and need to be replaced at specific intervals based on the aircraft age and usage. ●​ “Repairability - reuse - second life” - With regards to LLPs, easy replacement and availability of parts over the whole programme lifetime are a priority. The Company’s products are maintained and repaired by a number of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MROs) companies and spare parts providers worldwide. The Company's after-sale activities include the sale of spare parts and the provision of maintenance, repair and overhaul services. ●​ “Recycling” - Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company is working on specific initiatives, such as specific loop creation for titanium (see waste related actions) 6.2.6.1 ​Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs The following IROs were identified for resource use and circular economy : ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Actual negative impact The aviation sector's use of titanium in the production of aircraft components represents a relatively high percentage of the resource's global stock and may affect global resource availability. Short-term, mid-term, long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Risk The risk of titanium supply disruption could have an impact on aircraft production and deliveries, which could affect financial performance. / Own operations, Upstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Waste Opportunity An opportunity to reduce waste may arise from optimising the recovery of industrial waste, such as high-value metallic scraps. This could contribute to more efficient industrial processes and to further secure supply and production, which could contribute to financial performance. / Own operations 6.2.6.2 ​Policies (E5-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company’s commitment to reducing environmental impact during production and throughout the product life cycle, eco-design, circularity, and end-of-life considerations (including waste management in its own industrial operations). The Policy focuses on minimising resource depletion (including virgin resources) and the increased use of secondary materials to deliver innovative products and services, although it does not explicitly mention transitioning away from use of virgin resources nor sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources. All considerations for optimising material use shall also, under no circumstance, be detrimental to product safety and shall meet all technical requirements from stringent certification standards. The Airbus Environmental Policy also emphasises the importance of transitioning from a linear economy to a circular one, diverting waste from landfills and avoiding the depletion of natural resources. The policy does not explicitly mention waste hierarchy nor cover the prioritisation of avoidance. The Company's main industrial waste is composed of metallic waste, general waste, chemical waste and packaging waste. Waste from industrial activities represents about three quarters of the total waste generated by the Company’s sites, the remaining portion being waste generated in offices and canteens. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 196"
"Overview of how the management of topics related to identified IROs have a noticeable interaction with the Company's strategy, business and operating model: IRO related (sub)topic*: Company business model key dimensions include: Product policy & development Sales / aftersales / services Industrial set up Manuf acturing & logistics Workforce & working conditions Procure ment Processes / BMS ENVIRONMENT - Climate change adaptation - Climate change mitigation - Energy ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Pollution of air (VOC) - Substances of (very high) concern - Pollution of water and of living organisms...** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Water withdrawal / consumption - Water - Habitat degradation ** ✔ ✔ - Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss and impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems - Biodiversity loss drivers - pollution ** ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Resource inflow - Waste ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ SOCIAL Own workforce - Occupational health and safety - Social dialogue, freedom of association, collective bargaining - Diversity ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Workers in value chain - Occupational health and safety - Forced or child labour ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - Personal safety of consumers and/or end users ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ GOVERNANCE - Corporate culture - Speak up culture - Management of relationships with suppliers - Corruption and bribery ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ COMPANY SPECIFIC - Cybersecurity ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ * For detailed IROs description, see respective topical ESRS; ** material impact related to kerosene production. Not Applicable 6.1.1.4 ​IRO: Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.4.1 ​ IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs All CSRD proposed items were assessed through individual analysis at the lowest granularity (IROs) level. Some company specific potential topics were added to this assessment universe, such as cybersecurity. For most environmental subtopics, differentiated assessments were performed across the value chain: own operations / upstream / downstream. To the extent such data is available and accurate enough, quantitative scoring substantiation was systematically preferred to qualitative judgement. The assessment was documented. Concerned functions or roadmaps were systematically involved in the process for the topics they are respectively in charge of, as presented in the governance section. Accordingly, topic impact assessment is aligned with the Company Due Diligence process step related to the identification of impacts, which are then tackled by respective concerned functions or roadmaps. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 147"
"Impact materiality, i.e. actual or potential impacts on people and the environment. The Company evaluated the actual or potential impact of its activities on environment and people - e.g. employees, end users, and local communities. Scoring was established taking into account the severity (scale, scope, remediability - for negative impacts -) and likelihood of such impact and using predefined scoring grids. Materiality threshold was determined considering the associated “severity vs. likelihood” combinations deemed relevant to reflect materiality and to support topic prioritisation. For topics related to potential impacts on people, a high severity score overruled a low score of likelihood. All Company activities and sites are deemed to be considered in this analysis, with a focus on manufacturing of commercial aircraft activity, also taking into account the presumed great commonality of sustainability impact given the similarities in materials used and manufacturing process for helicopters, military aircraft, and satellites. The full value chain was considered, with again a focus on the impact related to the use of commercial aircraft as the magnitude of related impact was deemed higher given the nature and frequency of operations in the respective product lifetimes. This analysis also relied on an understanding of the Company’s own operations, supply chain, or other business relationships as the presence and severity of potential or actual adverse impacts is influenced by various factors, such as: the type of industry, products/services, operations and their associated inherent risks; the country and operating context, considering for instance publicly available statistics and indices or the existence of related environmental or social regulations or relevant voluntary standards and associated thresholds eventually or other relevant scientific sources of information (e.g. planet boundaries, environmental exposure atlas...). Assessment scores were substantiated by quantified data as much as possible, using a number of sources of information. These include internal information such as: -​ Life Cycle Analysis, information from topical experts, related internal metrics performance (past or ongoing impacts); -​ outputs from third party due diligence, internal control reports, or information collected during visits to supplier sites; -​ elements from findings and alerts from, for example, desktop Supplier Sustainability Maturity Assessments, onsite assessments (including social assessments) or from the grievance mechanism; -​ inputs obtained as part of stakeholder engagement (see “– 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders”); as well as external information such as topical and sectoral benchmarks or public reports, and regulatory thresholds. Impact materiality assessment was also supported by the engagement with stakeholders, consistently with the overall stakeholder engagement approach presented in the dedicated disclosure requirement. This includes direct consultation of internal and external experts, information collected from stakeholders through the continuous stakeholder engagement, and from affected stakeholders or their relevant proxies (eg. employees through surveys, content of social dialogue, customers feedback...). The consideration of regulatory thresholds, or topical standards or reference frameworks were also deemed to represent ‘silent’ stakeholders’ interests (e.g. nature). Impact on the Company or financial materiality The potential impact of sustainability-related topics on the Company’s financial performance was assessed by combining -1- a screening and reassignment of the top company risks and opportunities extracted from the company’s enterprise risk management (“ERM”) system to sustainability subtopics assessed following ERM methods and -2- an exhaustive screening of the CSRD-proposed list of subtopics, for which both the associated financial impact level and its likelihood were reassessed. A threshold corresponding to a percentage of EBIT was used, aligned with the relevance threshold for financial statements, alongside equivalent qualitative impact types (e.g. Brand, Compliance etc.). The use of climate scenarios supported the identification of connected impact and dependencies that eventually led to complementing the risk picture (e.g. climate technology risk and energy ecosystem risk). More generally the scrutiny of the Company's business and operating model interdependencies with each sub-topic including through exchanges with topical experts supported the above-mentioned screening. Double materiality assessment was formally presented to and endorsed by the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. It also supports Internal Control ́s prioritisation of work. Sustainability risks and opportunities are integrated into the ERM system and processes, including their identification, assessment and management. Consequently, they are part of the Company risk picture and addressed as defined by the overall process (see “– Corporate Governance – 3.2 Enterprise Risk Management System”). Impacts are covered by the Company Due Diligence process, as presented in the related disclosure requirements. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 148"
"In 2024, the Company updated its double-materiality assessment and refined its methodology to align it with CSRD requirements, as described hereinabove. As recommended in the non-binding Implementation Guidelines for Materiality Assessment, the Company intends to confirm or review (and update) its material matters once a year by taking into account: whether or not material changes in the Company's organisational and operational structure occurred, whether or not external factors occurred in the reporting year, and/or whether or not substantial new information was obtained as the Company progresses in its understanding of topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities. Depending on the significance of these events and developments, the Company would either review the existing DMA or perform a full-scale DMA to ensure the material sustainability matters are properly reported. The 2025 review process is likely to include a benchmark analysis derived from first CSRD reports from other European companies. Complementary disclosure requirements for specific topical ESRS on the description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: E1 Climate change The Company performed an advanced climate impact and risk assessment. This included the consideration of an analysis of GHG emissions from own operations, a screening of all Scope 3 categories, that identified the usage of Airbus products (i.e. Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products) as representing a significant proportion of total emissions. Share of Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products emission in total emissions >90% The Company also identified climate related risks following a TCFD-aligned approach, that included a screening of its sites and assets potential vulnerabilities to climate hazards (see “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”. Such analyses considered time horizons, assumptions and scenarios (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)“). See “– 6.2.2 E1 - Climate Change” chapter for full description. E2 Pollution IRO identification processes considered all business operations and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company has screened the annual declarations made by its sites to local authorities in the context of the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) regulation. Number of facilities exceeding the 100 tonnes threshold for VOC emissions listed in the E-PRTR regulation Annex II. 1 (Hamburg) Impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, such as the one in relation with kerosene production. For SOC/SOVHC, risks and opportunities have also been assessed using the register of the Company’s top company risks, according to the ERM process. This risk notably applies to aircraft manufacturing and is therefore connected to all sites with such industrial operations and handling chemicals. The materiality assessment did not involve direct consultations with affected communities. E3 Water and marine resources IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites from which environmental data is collected (see “– 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)” and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company analysed current and projected local water stress levels to understand where the Company’s activities have the greatest impact on water resources and where risks of business disruption linked to restrictions on the use of water are the most significant. This analysis is based inter alia on the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas; this analysis was last updated with the August 2023 update of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (version 4.0), using the “baseline” data as well as the 2030 scenarios. This analysis allowed to identify that the Company operates facilities located in high or extremely high water stress areas in Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Morocco, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia, UK, US. It includes sites from Commercial Aircraft, Airbus Helicopters and Airbus Defence and Space. As for ESRS E2, impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. The materiality assessment did not involve consultations with affected communities. E4 Biodiversity The Company is still progressing its understanding of the impact of its activities and those of its value chain on biodiversity. IRO identification was informed by the IPBES report's findings that there are five significant drivers of biodiversity loss: changing use of sea and lands, direct exploitation of organisms, Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 149"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 2(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 157"
"paragraphs 40 to 43 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 44 Indicators number 1 and 2 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 5(1), 6 and 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 55 Indicators number 3 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 56 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a) ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk. Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraph 34; Template 2:Banking book -Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property - Energy efficiency of the collateral Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities paragraph 69 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 Indicator number 8 Table #1 of Annex 1 Indicator number 2 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 1 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 3 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) (Air pollution - VOC) ESRS E3-1 Water and marine Indicator number 7 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 158"
"resources paragraph 9 ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 Indicator number 8 Table 2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) Indicator number 6.2 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 Indicator number 6.1 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i Indicator number 7 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) Indicator number 10 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) Indicator number 14 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24(b) Indicator number 11 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) Indicator number 15 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) Indicator number 13 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 Indicator number 9 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) (Radioactive waste - Not material) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 159"
"ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labour paragraph 14 (f) Indicator number 13 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g) Indicator number 12 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 20 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S1-1 processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 Indicator number 11 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 Indicator number 1 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-3 grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) Indicator number 5 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work- related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) Indicator number 2 Table #3 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) Indicator number 3 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) Indicator number 12 Table #1 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) Indicator number 8 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) Indicator number 7 Table #3 of Annex I Not material Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 160"
"ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD Guidelines paragraph 104 (a) Indicator number 10 Table #1 and Indicator n. 14 Table #3 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 Art 12 (1) Not material ESRS 2- SBM-3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain paragraph 11 (b) Indicators number 12 and n. 13 Table #3 of Annex I 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs ESRS S2-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 17 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator n. 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 18 Indicator number 11 and n. 4 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) ESRS S2-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines paragraph 19 Indicator number 10 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 19 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S2-4 Human rights issues and incidents connected to its upstream and downstream value chain paragraph 36 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) ESRS S3-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 16 Indicator number 9 Table #3 of Annex 1 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS S3-1 non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights, ILO principles or OECD guidelines paragraph 17 Indicator number 10 Table #1 Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) Not material ESRS S3-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 36 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users paragraph 16 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 161"
"areas. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Raw material management including substitution Where technically feasible, the Company reduces the solvent consumption and environmental impact of used raw material by deploying paints/coatings and adhesives with a lower VOC content (high solid systems) as well as water-based systems. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Cleaning techniques Where technically feasible, the Company implements several measures to reduce VOC emissions from cleaning processes. These measures include the use of pre-impregnated wipes in manual cleaning, the substitution of VOC-based cleaners with low-volatility or water-based cleaning agents, and the use of enclosed washing machines for tool cleaning. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Coating processes The Company aims to minimise raw material consumption and the overall environmental impact of coating processes by employing advanced spraying techniques such as air-assisted airless spraying and electrostatically assisted spraying. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. These actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s operations. 6.2.3.3.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company has defined the following voluntary target aligned with its environmental policy, that should also be put in perspective with the Airbus production ramp up over the 2015-2030 period, on its own operations and operationally controlled entities (see “– 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4)”). Emissions target Pollution of Air Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs baseline VOC emissions in absolute terms tons 2030 1,498 0% increase 2015 1,498 1,230 -18% The methodologies and assumptions for setting this target are based on internal analysis of actionable levers (see section “– 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2)”) and also take into account production ramp-up planning. While regulatory thresholds were taken into account in establishing this target, no specific additional direct relation to scientific evidence or stakeholder involvement was considered. The metrics for this target have not changed since its inception. 2024 VOC emission trend followed aircraft production. 2024 VOC emissions stood below the 2030 target while the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.3.3.4 ​ Metrics (E2-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Only the Hamburg site exceeds the threshold specified in ESRS E2 for VOC reporting (as per Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006). In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter (VOC on Target perimeter). On this perimeter, most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling activity-based extrapolation modeling. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). The main VOC emissions sources derive from surface treatment, cleaning, painting and coating operations through the use of the following materials: Solvents: halogenated (TCE, MC), non-halogenated and ODS (Ozone Depleting Substance) solvents (HFCF 141b) excluding paints and coatings; Solvated paints and coatings: primers, wash primers, topcoats and specific coating (for structural & non-structural parts). When VOC emissions are not measured by the concerned entity, a computation is performed by the concerned entities and is mainly based on a mass-balance approach, therefore taking into account the quantity of VOC in above-mentioned consumed materials (excluding wasted products). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 190"
"Direct measurement has been prioritised on certain sites where measured data is regulatory required, while associated cost benefit ratio was deemed insufficient for other sites. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Emissions Metrics - Pollution of Air Unit 2024 VOC tons 155 VOC on Target perimeter ⚐ tons 1,230 6.2.3.4 ​Pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food The Company has identified that its environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities related to pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food are found exclusively within the up- and downstream value chain as a potential impact of the kerosene production processes. An overview of all IROs related to pollution can be found in section “– 6.2.3.1 IROs Pollution”. While LCA leads to identifying such a potential impact, the Company has limited ability to influence the operations of oil & gas companies and does not have any relevant information. 6.2.4 ​ ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources 6.2.4.1 ​Water IROs The following IROs were identified for water: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-3 - Water Water: > Water consumption > Water withdrawals Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the potential impact of water stress - related to climate change - on water consumption, usage and withdrawal in their industrial operations, within a timely manner relative to the onset of such risks. This could lead to production disruptions, which could negatively affect financial performance. / Own Operations Upstream ESRS E-3 - Water Water - Habitat degradation: Impact See Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources in ESRS E2 Pollution The Company’s water usage is mostly linked to non-industrial uses, including sanitary, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, canteens and fire extinguishing. Around one third of the water withdrawn is used for industrial uses such as climate control of industrial facilities (e.g. clean rooms for satellite assembly, paint-shops), surface treatment, machining and non-destructive testing. Procuring the required water does not currently represent a material cost for the Company as overall withdrawn volumes are relatively limited, especially for its industrial operations. However, securing water availability to operate the industrial processes requiring water is critical for the Company to ensure business continuity. Environmental risks and opportunities are managed following the Company’s ERM system, as described in the section “– 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”. This covers among other risks related to water accessibility in areas of high and extremely high water stress. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 191"
"6.2.4.2 ​Policies (E3-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. A focus of the Environmental Policy is on water, where the Company aims to continually explore and implement innovative technologies and solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, including regarding water. While the policy covers water withdrawal reduction, it does not explicitly mention water management, water sourcing, water treatment or the reduction of water usage in areas at water risk. These aspects are nevertheless included in the Company’s management of water related aspects for its own operations and controlled entities perimeter. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the Environmental Policy in section “– 6.2.1. Policies”. 6.2.4.3 ​Actions and resources (E3-2) The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “- 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)). In addition, water related actions target in particular sites located in areas at water risk, including areas with high or extremely high water stress. Metering and monitoring The Company undertakes improvement of water metering and monitoring to better understand water usage and identify deviations and abnormalities. Notable implementations in 2024 include the deployment of digitised and automated real-time water withdrawal monitoring at Company’s sites in Spain and France. Leak management The Company strives to detect, repair and prevent water leakages in order to minimise unnecessary water withdrawal. This continuous initiative received particular focus in 2024 and has led to the identification and repair of several leaks in a number of the Company’s sites in France and the UK. Water reduction and reuse The Company develops water recycling and water reuse systems. For example, in 2024, Company sites have adapted processes and equipment to establish closed-loop systems where water is being reused, such as in the press cooling systems in Bremen, Germany. In addition, the Company aims to reduce its water usage by reviewing its industrial processes and equipment. 2024 examples include upgrade of cooling systems and non-destructive testing processes at locations such as Illescas, Spain and Nantes, France. Rainwater harvesting The Company implements rainwater harvesting in order to replace the use of drinking water in industrial and sanitary equipment. As of the end of 2024, this system has been deployed at several Company sites, including Airbus in Toulouse, France; Broughton, UK; and Airbus Helicopters in Paris-Le Bourget, France. Employee engagement The Company also acts on employee engagement in order to raise awareness on water management challenges. In 2024, this included deploying awareness campaigns, such as communications on the World Water Day via the Company’s intranet as well as onsite awareness-raising activities. Sites assessments In 2023, the Company undertook studies supported by external expertise across several Company sites to evaluate the water management maturity level of these sites and identify relevant opportunities to further reduce water withdrawal. Additionally, other sites have conducted self-assessments using the same methodology. In 2024, this approach was extended to additional sites Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 192"
"All actions are continuous efforts in the context of the 2030 target (see section “– 6.2.4.4. Targets (E3-3)” below), which are renewed annually, aiming to avoid and reduce the usage and withdrawal of water. All of these ongoing actions are embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.4.4 ​Targets (E3-3) The Company has set the following 2030 target (vs. 2015 baseline): -25% reduction in absolute water withdrawal volumes defined by the Company as the sum of purchased water, abstracted groundwater and surface water withdrawal whilst excluding collected rainwater, reclaimed water, brackish coastal water, and “non-contact” water used for geothermal energy generation or heating/cooling; this metric is referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI”. It applies to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities. This target aligns with the vision of the Company's Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing processes and site infrastructures to reduce water withdrawal. This target is voluntary. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. The target is informed by projected local water stress levels according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, version 4.0 (dated August 2023), using the Aqueduct 2030 ""pessimistic"" scenario (aligned with the Company scenario ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"" which includes the data from IPCC SSP5 RCP8.5). To achieve this Company-wide target, the Company has cascaded site-specific targets, acknowledging that the criticality of water challenges is heavily influenced by local factors. These site-specific targets have been determined with relevant stakeholders at each site, based on local context including local water stress levels. Performance against target is monitored monthly, with a review and analysis of trends or significant changes in performance towards achieving the 2030 target on Company level (update EOY). The previous target focused on purchased water only; the target scope has now been expanded to the scope described above. The inclusion of new entities due to the scope extension has led to an update of the baseline value. The primary focus of this target is the reduction of water withdrawal, which supports the reduction of water consumption. Water target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Water withdrawal-related KPI m3 2030 3,225,016 -25% 2015 4,300,021 3,510,180 -18% Water withdrawal (as per target KPI) slightly reduced in 2024 supported by the outcomes of actions described above (see “- 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2)”), in a production growth context. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.4.5 ​Metrics (E3-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Reported data covers Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by water suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). Water consumption is defined as the difference between water withdrawal volumes and water discharge volumes. All volumes of water withdrawal per source and volumes of water discharges by destination are reported by each entity. They can be either obtained from direct measurements (metering or invoice) or estimated (see table below). When water discharge is not measured or partially measured, the discharge volumes can be estimated from the withdrawal volumes depending on the type of usage on site (industrial process, cooling, fire protection, sanitary use...). Water risk and water stress indicators are obtained for each site based on the site’s geographical location, using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 “baseline” data, World Resources Institute as follows: areas of high water stress: the Aqueduct “Water stress” indicator is used; sites in ""high"" and ""extremely high"" water stress locations are considered; areas at water risk: the Aqueduct “Overall water risk” indicator is used; sites in Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 193"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"In 2024, the Company updated its double-materiality assessment and refined its methodology to align it with CSRD requirements, as described hereinabove. As recommended in the non-binding Implementation Guidelines for Materiality Assessment, the Company intends to confirm or review (and update) its material matters once a year by taking into account: whether or not material changes in the Company's organisational and operational structure occurred, whether or not external factors occurred in the reporting year, and/or whether or not substantial new information was obtained as the Company progresses in its understanding of topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities. Depending on the significance of these events and developments, the Company would either review the existing DMA or perform a full-scale DMA to ensure the material sustainability matters are properly reported. The 2025 review process is likely to include a benchmark analysis derived from first CSRD reports from other European companies. Complementary disclosure requirements for specific topical ESRS on the description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: E1 Climate change The Company performed an advanced climate impact and risk assessment. This included the consideration of an analysis of GHG emissions from own operations, a screening of all Scope 3 categories, that identified the usage of Airbus products (i.e. Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products) as representing a significant proportion of total emissions. Share of Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products emission in total emissions >90% The Company also identified climate related risks following a TCFD-aligned approach, that included a screening of its sites and assets potential vulnerabilities to climate hazards (see “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”. Such analyses considered time horizons, assumptions and scenarios (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)“). See “– 6.2.2 E1 - Climate Change” chapter for full description. E2 Pollution IRO identification processes considered all business operations and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company has screened the annual declarations made by its sites to local authorities in the context of the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) regulation. Number of facilities exceeding the 100 tonnes threshold for VOC emissions listed in the E-PRTR regulation Annex II. 1 (Hamburg) Impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, such as the one in relation with kerosene production. For SOC/SOVHC, risks and opportunities have also been assessed using the register of the Company’s top company risks, according to the ERM process. This risk notably applies to aircraft manufacturing and is therefore connected to all sites with such industrial operations and handling chemicals. The materiality assessment did not involve direct consultations with affected communities. E3 Water and marine resources IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites from which environmental data is collected (see “– 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)” and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company analysed current and projected local water stress levels to understand where the Company’s activities have the greatest impact on water resources and where risks of business disruption linked to restrictions on the use of water are the most significant. This analysis is based inter alia on the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas; this analysis was last updated with the August 2023 update of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (version 4.0), using the “baseline” data as well as the 2030 scenarios. This analysis allowed to identify that the Company operates facilities located in high or extremely high water stress areas in Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Morocco, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia, UK, US. It includes sites from Commercial Aircraft, Airbus Helicopters and Airbus Defence and Space. As for ESRS E2, impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. The materiality assessment did not involve consultations with affected communities. E4 Biodiversity The Company is still progressing its understanding of the impact of its activities and those of its value chain on biodiversity. IRO identification was informed by the IPBES report's findings that there are five significant drivers of biodiversity loss: changing use of sea and lands, direct exploitation of organisms, Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 149"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"●​ Transition - Market: Low availability of renewable and low-carbon energy The Company has identified risks linked to the availability and affordability of renewable and low-carbon energy. First, there is the risk of low volumes in absolute terms, due to insufficient investments in renewable or low-carbon energy (including through the sustainable transformation of available biomass). Second, there is the risk that even if total volumes are approaching sufficiency in absolute terms, the aviation sector is unable to access sufficient volumes, leading to a risk of a slower than expected substitution of fossil fuel energy and low uptake of the new solutions and products to be developed by the Company, and resulting in lower or longer returns on invested R&D. ●​ Transition - Market: Impact of market measures and their development on demand for the Company’s products Accommodating new types of aircraft that respond to the aviation sector’s decarbonisation objectives requires an ecosystem that is ready. For instance, the development of future products based on hydrogen or other alternative propulsive technology concepts will require significant investments in both products and supporting infrastructure, which could directly impact the operating costs of such a product. Consequently, the absence of measures to stimulate robust hydrogen, synthetic fuels and biofuels supply infrastructure and adapted procedures to ensure efficiency and safety of operations, could mean that the ecosystem will be unable to accommodate the Company’s future products, notably resulting in significant development costs incurred and a risk of compromising the investments made if customers are unable or unwilling to purchase products that cannot be widely operated within the available infrastructure and procedures. Moreover, the competitiveness of this next generation product will also strongly depend, among other factors, on the evolution of the price of CO2 emissions. A high price on CO2 may impact the demand for aircraft relative to competitors' portfolios and could result in the loss of market share for the Company relative to its competitors. The Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially affected if the Company does not, at each step of development of its future products, account for market expectations while ensuring its products stay affordable for customers and competitive with respect to competitors’ portfolios. ●​ Transition - Policy and legal: Climate-related regulations and restrictions - divergence in regulatory framework Aviation and aerospace are complex industries, with long product development cycles and where change takes a long time to be implemented. A rapid evolution of climate related policies (such as the EU zero-pollution communications) and regulatory frameworks (CO2 standards, sustainable finance, emissions trading systems, aircraft operation restrictions, among others) could generate fast-changing requirements and could obstruct new product development pathways. In particular for aviation, as it is a global industry, policies and regulations implemented at national or regional rather than international level, or these evolving at a different speed depending on the region, could result in a negative impact on the competitive conditions for manufacturers and aircraft operators. This could result in a loss of competitiveness for the Company and reduced demand for its products. ●​ Transition - Reputation: Change in behaviours, perceptions and societal expectations Reputational risks could be divided into several categories. Firstly, there is a risk that negative perceptions about the Company’s environmental performance could be used as key decision-making criteria for consumers, investors, or even new talents. Secondly, there is a risk that the Company’s reputation could be damaged by growing societal concerns about the climate change impact of aviation or by the lack of transparency on progress made to address climate-related issues. As an example, the Company disclosed its ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. If the ambition is perceived as unattainable or if the Company is not able to deliver on its ambition, this could result in reputational damage leading to less investment, loss of revenues and reduced attractiveness. A similar situation could occur if the Company’s environmental performance is not on par with its expressed ambition. ●​ Physical - Acute: Extreme weather events may impact the Company's products and operations The foreseen consequences of climate change include more frequent extreme weather events, such as drought, dust storms, extreme temperatures, extreme winds, flood, hail storms, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, cyclones and wildfires. These could negatively impact the Company’s products and its operations (including but not limited to route delays and safe aircraft operations), land assets and infrastructure as well as employees' safety (and people's safety generally). The above consequences and impacts may result in production or other operational disruptions leading to lost revenues, reduced profits, and losses. This could result in the need for additional modifications to the Company's products in order to meet more stringent safety needs, as well as requiring changes to industrial operations and procurement strategy, leading to increased operational and production costs and the consequential costs of adapting the Company’s insurance coverage. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 172"
"●​ Physical - Chronic: Consequences of long-term changing weather patterns may cause increase of infrastructure and operations costs, reduced labour productivity, loss of assets value and negatively impact employee’s health The foreseen consequences of climate change include long-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g., change in precipitation patterns, sustained higher temperatures, flooding, water stress or chronic heat waves). Such changes may cause an accelerated degradation of the Company’s industrial infrastructure and assets (buildings, tools, hardware), may reduce the availability of operational resources and may interrupt logistics flows, therefore impacting the Company’s manufacturing activities. In addition, the change in environmental conditions could also negatively impact the performance of products in operation and negatively impact the health and safety of the Company’s employees. This may result in the need for additional modifications to the Company’s products, as well as to industrial operations and procurement strategy, leading to increased costs and the adaptation of the Company’s insurance coverage. Based on a qualitative analysis, the Company has estimated the probability of risk materialisation. It has also performed a preliminary internal assessment, using data from the Company's ERM system, as to which climate-related risks may involve the most significant financial impacts in the future. The results are displayed in the following table. Climate scenario / time horizon(s) where risk likelihood is considered medium or high, based on Company's qualitative analysis Potential financial impacts before mitigation Key associated actions presented in the Company’s transition plan RISKS 1.5°C >3°C Transition - Technology ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ - Supporting fleet renewal by delivering its latest generation aircraft - Developing and deploying SAF, with the ambition for all aircraft types to be capable of flying with up to 100% SAF by 2030 - Investing in technologies to reduce product emissions, including hydrogen - Investing in smart air traffic management (ATM) solutions and optimised operations - Deploy local adaptation measures following threats and vulnerabilities assessment. - Embed climate change in industrial strategy - Engage R&D activities including with certification authorities on new climate model impacts on products Transition - Market (Energy) ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ Transition - Market (Demand) ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ +++ Transition - Policy and legal ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Not assessed Transition - Reputation ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Not assessed Physical - Acute ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ++ Physical - Chronic ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ++ ▶ ▶ ▶ : ST - ▶ ▶ ▶ : MT - ▶ ▶ ▶ : LT As mentioned previously, the resilience analysis is still ongoing but previously shared information under section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” and to the above mentioned risk management mitigation measures provide a first understanding of the Company's ability to adapt its strategy and business model to climate change. Additionally, the section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions (E1-3)” provides further information on the adaptation actions taken by the Company to reinforce its resilience. More precisely, with regards to product resilience in the context of climate change, aircraft products are sensitive to weather phenomena during their operation phase. While the certified flight envelopes of the Company’s products offer some margin compared to relevant bad atmospheric conditions defined by certification authorities, the adaptation of aircraft design and operation to the changing climate is an important activity to be anticipated, in particular given the long lead time associated with aircraft development and operation. With regards to its defence product portfolio, the Company is collaborating with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (“NATO”) and other defence industry players and organisations (in the so-called NATO Study Group 291) with the objective of developing recommendations on ensuring allied capabilities adaptation in the context of climate change. This is supported by inputs from the NATO Climate and Defence Task Force led by the Conference of National Armaments Directors (CNAD) the Company is also part of, together with the allied governments and other defence industry players. This collaboration aims at assessing, elaborating and deploying solutions to ensure technical capabilities still enable operational effectiveness in facing changing climatic conditions. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 173"
"The climate-related assumptions in the climate scenarios described above were also used in the Company's Financial Statements. 6.2.2.4 ​Policies (E1-2) The Airbus Environmental Policy described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies” addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy deployment. Climate change adaptation is not explicitly mentioned in the policy but is included in the Company’s EMS and business continuity activities. For further detail on the content of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section “– 6.2.1 Policies”. 6.2.2.5 ​Actions and resources (E1-3) Climate mitigation and adaptation-related actions are coordinated by the Sustainability Organisation under the leadership of the Chief Sustainability Officer, which includes multifunctional and cross-divisional teams on CO2 and Energy, as well as a dedicated organisation for SAF. Annual sustainability budgets are allocated to each function to implement said actions. The emissions reduction estimates presented in the tables below are indicative and represent the Company’s best view on how it intends to reach its targets, based on current assumptions, modelling (including effects of increasing production output) and portfolio of projects reducing CO2 emissions and offsetting business growth. They may be refined over time as forecast techniques may improve and the portfolio of decarbonisation projects may be revised or re-prioritised to capture new opportunities or adapt to changes in market conditions. The Company has not identified any dependencies on the availability and allocation of resources for the implementation of the below actions unless otherwise stipulated. MITIGATION The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “– 6.2.2.6 Energy consumption and Mix (E1-5)” and “– 6.2.2.7 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”). Decarbonisation lever #1 - Scopes 1 & 2 - Energy efficiency The Company is committed to enhancing energy efficiency for its buildings and industrial processes as part of its climate change action plan. This initiative, which encompasses improvements in lighting, insulation, and combined heat and power (CHP) optimisation, is on-going and planned to be further implemented company-wide by 2030. Lever #1 - Scope 1&2 - Energy efficiency of stationary assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -73 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 (incl. surface evolution, energy efficiency and weather impact) ktCO2e -92 In addition to its efforts regarding the energy efficiency of sites, the Company has outlined a strategic initiative focused on enhancing mobile energy efficiency, primarily driven by the introduction of three new vessels, with rigid sails technology, and its Beluga fleet miscellaneous efficiency improvement projects. Lever #1 - Scope 1&2 - Energy efficiency of mobile assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -53 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -73 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 174"
"Decarbonisation lever #2 - Scopes 1 & 2 - Renewable energy The Company has implemented a comprehensive plan for renewable and low carbon electricity contracting aimed at addressing Scopes 1 and 2 decarbonisation targets over the period 2015-2030. The primary focus is on Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), which are expected to play a significant role in achieving these goals while the rest of emissions will be covered by REC & GoOs. This Company-wide action has a time horizon set until 2030. The success of the action is dependent on the availability of a direct decarbonised energy supply. This dependency underscores the importance of securing reliable and sustainable energy sources to meet the decarbonisation targets. In addition to PPAs, the Company is committed to the implementation of local site renewable energy generation. Several projects are currently under study and development, focusing on photovoltaic systems, biomass, heat pumps, and other renewable technologies. This action has a time horizon set until 2030. Lever #2 - Scope 1&2 - Renewable and low carbon energy source for stationary assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -125 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -447 The Company is committed to increasing the use of SAF in its relevant internal operations as part of its climate action strategy. This initiative is planned to be implemented by 2030. Lever #2 - Scope 1&2 - Energy decarbonisation of energy mobile assets Unit Expected GHG emission reduction in 2030 compared to 2024 ktCO2e -78 Achieved GHG emission reduction in 2024 compared to 2015 ktCO2e -37 Decarbonisation lever #3 - Scope 3 Use of Sold products - Technology improvement Introduction Delivering latest generation aircraft. Airlines renewing their in-service fleet offers immediate potential for aviation decarbonisation, as reflected in the figures below. Lever #3 - Scope 3 USP - Fleet renewal - Target enablers / contributors Unit Current proportion of previous generation aircraft in global commercial aircraft fleet % About 66% Estimated latest generation aircraft efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % About 25% Estimated A350 and A330neo efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 25% Estimated A320neo family efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 20% Estimated A220 efficiency gain vs. than the previous generation % fuel burn per seat 25% Continuous technological improvement. Additionally, the Company consistently works to improve the efficiency of its aircraft, through new aerostructure designs, advanced materials, upgraded systems, and more fuel-efficient engines, aiming to reduce CO2, NOx, and noise emissions in operations. The scope of this action is within the Commercial Aircraft business, with a time horizon covering and lasting beyond the 2035 horizon of the related target. A milestone was reached in 2024, with the certification of the A321XLR obtained in August and its commercial entry into service in October. The A321XLR offers the opportunity to longer-range routes for the single-aisle aircraft family, leveraging the platform’s greater fuel efficiency and hence CO2 efficiency when compared to a bigger widebody aircraft. Next generation aircraft, supporting the sector's decarbonisation ambition beyond the Company's target horizon. The Company is investing in technologies aimed at reducing emissions for the next generation of products. In particular, Commercial Aircraft is preparing next-generation single-aisle aircraft technologies, focusing on innovations for airframes and engines. One significant initiative is the ""wing of tomorrow"" programme, which has successfully delivered a full-size wing prototype incorporating lighter composite components and a folding wing tip. This programme integrates over 100 different components and manufacturing technologies, validating key automation targets. In collaboration with the European Clean Sky 2 and Clean Aviation programmes, the Company is researching new efficiency-enhancing technologies, such as semi-morphing wings, dynamic winglets, and innovative flight controls, as tested on a C295 transport aircraft. On the engine side, the Company supports engine manufacturers in adapting and integrating their latest innovations to meet aircraft needs. The Company also considers hydrogen as a promising technology for reducing aviation’s climate impact. It has the ambition to bring a commercially viable, fully electric, hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft into service. The Company believes fuel cell technology to be the most promising to fulfil this ambition, which would significantly reduce emissions when compared to conventional jet engine configurations. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 175"
"The scaling up of the hydrogen ecosystem is challenging and is progressing at a slower pace than previously anticipated. The scalability of fuel cell technologies towards a commercially viable product will also require more time. A commercially viable product is now expected to come later than 2035. The Company will use this additional time to further develop the performance of the fuel cell propulsion and liquid hydrogen system technologies that are expected to enable the development of the Company's first fully electric commercial aircraft, as part of its ambition to pioneer sustainable aerospace. The Company is also fostering hydrogen ecosystem readiness by collaborating with various stakeholders, including airports, airlines, and energy providers, to support the evolution of market needs with renewable and low-carbon hydrogen. In order to foster such development, the “Airbus hydrogen network” involves a number of airports and numerous energy providers and airlines as partners, while new partners are still being recruited to join on a regular basis. In July 2024 alone, two Hydrogen Hubs were launched, one in Spain and another at Gatwick airport in the UK. Key figure Unit 2024 Number of airports involved in “Airbus hydrogen network” No. 215 This comprehensive approach underscores the Company's commitment to sustainable aviation and its role in driving industry-wide decarbonisation efforts. The Company plans to continuously invest in technologies to reduce product emissions with a time horizon extending beyond the 2035 timeframe mentioned for the near-term target. Decarbonisation lever #4 - Scope 3 Use of sold products - SAF uptake The Company is actively fostering SAF ecosystems readiness and partnerships to mitigate climate change. The primary constraints for operators are the price and global production capacity of SAF, which hinder large-scale adoption. To establish a robust SAF market, it is essential to match production with demand, supported by global regulatory frameworks and incentivisation schemes. This includes implementing reporting mechanisms for consistent tracking of decarbonisation progress and using book and claim systems to simplify SAF usage and demonstrate its benefits to freight and corporate customers when needed. The Company is actively supporting the development of a regulatory framework supporting the growth of the SAF market. The Company advocates for policies that incentivise SAF production and usage, sharing industry best practices, and focusing on production levels assessment, life cycle analysis methodology, and sustainability criteria and standards harmonisation. A clear, stable, and consistent policy at both global and local levels, along with incentivisation or regulations, is essential to promote long-term investments and technology development. Lever #4 - Scope 3 USP - SAF uptake - Target enablers / contributors Unit SAF CO2 emissions reduction throughout life cycle vs. conventional kerosene % Up to >80% Current Company's aircraft portfolio SAF fuel blend capability in operations % Up to 50% End of the decade ambition for the Company's aircraft portfolio SAF fuel blend capability, including military aircraft and helicopters % Up to 100% The Company is vigilant about the potential future positive or negative impacts on the environment or people that could arise with the development on the SAF market, if uncontrolled. SAF is a fuel derived from a range of “feedstocks” (origin of carbon molecules used) made from sustainable resources and brings significant reduction of CO2 emissions throughout its life cycle when compared with conventional kerosene (see table). Eight SAF production pathways are currently certified for blending with kerosene, including processes such as hydro-processed esters and fatty acids (HEFA), alcohol-to-jet, Fischer Tropsch, or power-to-liquid. Some of them are derived from used fat, cooking oil and grease, municipal waste, agricultural and forestry waste and residues. More advanced technologies use hydrogen and carbon captured directly from the air as feedstock for SAF production. On one hand, regional SAF production, dependent on local feedstock availability, can significantly contribute to socio-economic development, particularly in developing nations. On the other hand, it is essential that other sustainability dimensions be considered to prevent potential adverse impacts, especially for those SAF production pathways that imply land use. In order to be considered a SAF, an aviation fuel needs to meet defined sustainability criteria and requirements; the Company supports the ones set out by ICAO/CORSIA and in particular aspects related to non-competition with food and water resources. It also actively supports current and future sustainability criteria via regionally or nationally recognised schemes including EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED II), Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), Low Carbon Fuel Standard in the US, Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation in the UK and ‘Renewable Fuel Units' (HBEs) in the Netherlands. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 176"
"2024 GHG emissions breakdowns Unit Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Mobile sources of emissions ktCO2eq 245 0 0 Stationary sources of emissions ktCO2eq 206 318 163 From consolidated accounting group ktCO2eq 446 275 139 From operationally controlled entities ktCO2eq 5 43 23 GHG intensity per net revenue Unit 2024 Total GHG emission (location based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Total GHG emission (market based) per net revenue ktCO2eq/MEUR 6.9 Key figures Unit 2024 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity In € Million 69,230 Net revenue (other) In € Million 0 Total net revenue (in financial statements) In € Million 69,230 6.2.2.9 ​GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) Carbon credits act as an additional voluntary measure for greenhouse gas emissions neutralisation, contributing towards global climate actions and it does not intend to replace emissions reduction or become a way of achieving Company’s near-term SBTi validated targets. Both nature-based and technology-based removals, from climate change mitigation projects outside the Company supply chain, are considered and should be purchased in 2025, following the conclusions of the IPCC (e.g. Special Report on 1.5°C and Assessment Report 6).The Company intends to work in partnership with carbon sequestration companies to generate additional technology-based carbon removals. So far, the Company has used carbon credits only, and no removal nor storage resulting from projects developed in own operations or value chain are reported. In 2024, the Company evolved its related contractual framework. This new framework is to be used from 2025, including to compensate for 2024 residual emissions as per Company commitment. Key figure Unit 2024 residual emissions to be compensated in 2025 - contractualisation being finalised tCO2eq 621,222 Recognised quality standards for carbon credits are those that are verifiable by independent third parties, make requirements and project reports publicly available and at a minimum ensure additionality, permanence, avoidance of double counting and provide rules for calculation, monitoring, and verification of the project’s GHG emissions. As a minimum, the carbon offsets purchased by the Company are certified by the Gold Standard or Verra or Verified Carbon Standard or Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standards and the supplier needs to show proof of how each one of the mentioned criteria was met. On top of the core criteria mentioned above, societal aspects are considered, such as prevention of child labour, respect of human rights and relations with the communities surrounding the projects (FPIC process) and co-benefits strategy. Information including project selection (criteria and generated credits quality) and the verification of their actual implementation as per contractual terms were verified by an independent external body. GHG Removals Unit 2024 Total GHG removals from own operations tCO2eq 0 Total GHG removals in the value chain tCO2eq 0 Reversals tCO2eq 0 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Unit 2024 Total tCO2eq 130,560 Share from removal projects % 0.45% Share from reduction projects % 99.55% Per recognised quality standard view % 100.0% Share from projects within the EU % 0.45% Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments % 0% Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 185"
"Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Unit Amount Until year Total tCO2eq 0 N/A 6.2.2.10 ​ Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) Key figure Unit Internal carbon price EUR / tCO2 150 Transition plan CapEx and OpEx The Company has established CO2 reduction targets for Scopes 1, 2, and Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions, which have been validated by SBTi (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1))”. Over the years, progress has been made in reducing emissions and towards achieving these targets. This progress is largely attributable to the Company’s strategic focus on investments (e.g. industrial assets), and operational measures (e.g. SAF purchase) aimed at decarbonising energy usage and improving energy efficiency, among other initiatives, which are centrally managed and prioritised by the Company. CO2 savings are inherently the primary decision criterion for this category of investments, and the use of a shadow carbon price - as described in the following paragraphs - had therefore a limited influence on these CapEx investment decisions. Details on investments and measures are disclosed in section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1)”. CapEx investments (Scopes 1 & 2) The Company has started to apply a shadow carbon price in its broader decision-making process to assess the financial impact of carbon emissions and influence decisions accordingly. This fixed price (see table above) was established considering benchmarks, carbon price projections from various relevant sources such as those of the IPCC 2018, IEA and IRENA 2017 and French authorities, as well as the Company's intention to make it an influential factor. The price aims to signal to project leaders the importance of CO2 footprint reduction and to support consistency of investment decision making with the Company’s commitments to decarbonisation. The integrated internal pricing mechanism factors the internal carbon price into net present value and internal rate of return calculations as part of business case evaluations. By incorporating the cost of carbon, the Company seeks a more holistic financial analysis of its CapEx projects. The financial component in decision making therefore strives to integrate internal carbon price, and favour those investments with a better CO2 footprint. As per the governance established on that matter, internal carbon price is applied in the business cases of CapEx dossiers for operations for Commercial Aircraft. While the actual use is still partial, the Company intends to continue deploying it in the coming years. Challenges to progress result from certain projects inherently having a minimal direct carbon footprint, or the associated CO2 emissions may be difficult to quantify or assign accurately, especially in complex supply chains or shared infrastructure. Product incremental development (Scope 3 Use of Sold Products) From November 2023, the use of the shadow carbon price was extended to current aircraft programmes’ product related major incremental developments in Airbus commercial aircraft business segment, supporting its Scope 3 emission reduction ambition. The internal carbon price is used when the Company introduces modifications to existing aircraft programmes, many of which could reduce drag or save weight in its aircraft design to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions, while accuracy could still be materially improved with further standardised methodologies to assign a CO2 emissions to specific modifications. Of note, the use of this internal carbon pricing mechanism is not deemed appropriate in business cases related to any future programmes, to the extent that the energy dimension is embedded in related modelling and projections. Metrics While the Company does not consider CSRD-defined metrics to be relevant indicators to steer such a topic in view of the context described above, the Company will strive to collect necessary information to report such metrics in the future when additional guidance and best practices emerge. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 186"
"6.2.3 ​ ESRS E2 - Pollution 6.2.3.1 ​Pollution IROs The following IROs were identified for pollution: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E2 - Pollution Substances of concern and Substances of Very High Concern Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may not be in a position to substitute substances of concern or of very high concern in due time in accordance with regulatory requirements. This could lead to business disruption across the value chain and to the Company not being able to deliver aircraft to its customers, which could negatively affect financial performance and damage its reputation. / Own Operations, Downstream, Upstream ESRS E2 - Pollution Pollution of air Actual negative impact Aircraft and aircraft parts painting and cleaning within certain facilities of the Company lead to volatile organic compound emissions, potentially resulting in air pollution if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short-term Own operations ESRS E2 - Pollution Pollution of water / Pollution of living organisms and food resources Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to emissions into water, which may contribute to water pollution and to pollution of living organisms and food resources if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short-term Downstream, upstream 6.2.3.2 ​Substances of Concern and of Very High Concern (hereafter jointly referred to as “Substances of Concern”) 6.2.3.2.1 ​ Policies (E2-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy, described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies”, emphasises the importance of addressing substances of concern by driving the development of solutions aimed at substituting and reducing the use of regulated substances throughout the product life cycle. This approach supports compliance with applicable regulations, protection of human health and the environment and mitigates obsolescence risks for the Company in relation to substances of concern. Incidents avoidance and emergency situations are covered in Airbus Environmental Management System. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to stakeholders and the consideration of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). The use and management of chemical substances are subject to specific requirements, with the main regulations covering the Company’s activities and products being EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals (REACH); Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP). 6.2.3.2.2 ​ Actions and resources (E2-2) Some substances used in the global aerospace industry to meet the stringent technical performance standards required for certification and airworthiness are subject to regulations. These regulations impact key industrial processes and products, such as surface treatments, primers and fire protection. The Company works with suppliers and the wider industry with the aim of developing suitable alternatives to the Company’s uses of such substances and actively promotes the development and use of suitable alternatives, across product life-cycles. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 187"
"Impact assessment Using information from its technical documentation/design data-set as at aircraft production and based on information received by the Company from its suppliers, the Company tracks, records, assesses and declares regulated chemicals. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. This action enables the Company to monitor its usage of substances and manage its compliance with regulatory requirements as well as anticipate supply disruption risks. The Company also engages with suppliers to promote the adoption of a similar approach through regular communication and, more widely, by working together with the aerospace industry to promote worldwide harmonisation of ways of working, taking into account the sector’s safety and lifecycle specificities. Substitution The Company has established a portfolio of activities and projects, collaborating with suppliers, the wider industry and airworthiness authorities to identify, develop, qualify, and deploy new technologies and solutions that aim to avoid the use of substances classified as posing a risk to human health or the environment, while still meeting the stringent technical performance standards required for airworthiness and certification. When it can be demonstrated that alternative technologies meet those stringent requirements, the Company seeks to implement them in its product design and manufacturing. For example, the Company is, in cooperation with its suppliers, developing, qualifying and progressively deploying on new products, chromate-free corrosion protection and paint systems for aluminium structures. Key figures, at year end Unit 2024 Number of regulated substances impact analysed No. >16,000 Number of substances for which substitutes were qualified and deployed No. 509 Number of mixtures for which substitutes were qualified and deployed No. 558 The scope of this activity includes the Company's own operations as well as upstream and downstream engagement. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Data management The Company is deploying digital tools to facilitate the collection, management and use of substance-related data from its suppliers. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. Based on information received by the Company from its suppliers, the engagement extends to both upstream and downstream use of substances, contributing to a life-cycle approach. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Monitoring impacts of substance-related regulatory requirements on continuity of supply The Company also focuses on preventing supply chain disruption caused by the unavailability of substances, whether due to regulatory requirements or suppliers' decisions. This initiative involves regular assessment of such potential risks, such as campaigns to gather information from suppliers. It also includes evaluating suppliers' proposed solutions and the qualification of suitable alternatives. This activity encompasses both the Company's own operations and upstream activities, based on information received by the Company from its suppliers. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. All of these actions are on-going and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.3.2.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company framework for substitution of Substances of Concern is aligned with regulatory time horizons rather than with set Company targets and regularly assesses status of the Company’s actions towards managing substance-related regulatory requirements. Examples include using Technology Readiness Levels (TRL) indicators to track progress of the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 188 Key figures, at year end Unit 2024 Number of suppliers engaged in this new data collection tool No. Around 500 Number of part numbers covered No. Around 23,000"
"substitution projects and other Key Performance Indicators which are regularly reviewed by steering committees in charge of substances topics. Aerospace industry products often have long lifecycles and operate in extreme conditions. Finding and certifying suitable alternatives to regulated substances to meet stringent airworthiness standards is a lengthy process, requiring extensive research and development often exceeding regulatory timelines. Consequently, applications for continued use of regulated substances, under specific conditions, are frequently necessary until viable replacements are available. 6.2.3.2.4 ​ Metrics (E2-5) The Company manages substance-related IROs in line with the regulatory requirements and their provisions related to substance traceability, based on information on product composition received by the Company from its suppliers. These provisions generally include the communication of the presence of certain substances, often when above a specified concentration level (for example, presence of Substances of Very High Concern in an article above 0.1% weight by weight (w/w) as required by the Article 33 of the REACH regulation; Substances of Concern which are not Substances of Very High Concern under REACH are not subject to this requirement), or the communication of a range of concentration of some substances in a specific mixture via a Safety Data Sheet (for example, the Company may receive the information that a substance is present in a mixture in a concentration between 10 and 80%). The precise quantity (mass) of substances in a product is not made available to the Company, and the available data does not allow the Company to calculate the quantity of substances in products/articles and mixtures. As mentioned above, the Company is working to deploy digital means to facilitate the collection, management and use of substance related data from its suppliers as a way to enhance its reporting capability in the future and maintain its compliance with substance-related regulations. 6.2.3.3 ​Pollution of Air 6.2.3.3.1 ​ Policies (E2-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy, described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies”, outlines its environmental management and is designed to manage various environmental aspects, such as Volatile Organic Compounds (“VOC”) emissions. In the context of this Policy, the Company is committed to continually reducing its environmental footprint through its industrial operations by implementing innovative technologies and solutions, including to reduce air emissions. For further detail on the content of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). The Company is subject to pollution-related regulatory requirements, some of which being embedded into the permits granted by local authorities to its sites. In addition, the Company’s ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System notably applies the standard recommendations for pollution control audits, training, risk assessment and identification, implementation of risk prevention procedures (e.g. emergency plans, simulation exercises). For example, sites shall conduct an analysis of environmental aspects and impacts at least every three years, as well as each time a material change in operations occurs, also in connection with the Company’s ERM process. The Airbus Environmental Management System is intended to cover incidents avoidance and emergency situations. 6.2.3.3.2 ​ Actions and resources (E2-2) Monitoring The Company monitors Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions to identify the main emitters of VOC within its industrial processes. The VOC emissions are directly measured where required by regulation or calculated through a mass-balance approach. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. This action enables the Company to quantify the VOC emissions and focus actions on priority areas. Storage and handling of raw materials In order to prevent or reduce fugitive VOC emissions during storage and handling of solvent-containing materials, the Company applies various practices, including covering of containers in storage and minimisation of storage in production Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 189"
"areas. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Raw material management including substitution Where technically feasible, the Company reduces the solvent consumption and environmental impact of used raw material by deploying paints/coatings and adhesives with a lower VOC content (high solid systems) as well as water-based systems. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Cleaning techniques Where technically feasible, the Company implements several measures to reduce VOC emissions from cleaning processes. These measures include the use of pre-impregnated wipes in manual cleaning, the substitution of VOC-based cleaners with low-volatility or water-based cleaning agents, and the use of enclosed washing machines for tool cleaning. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Coating processes The Company aims to minimise raw material consumption and the overall environmental impact of coating processes by employing advanced spraying techniques such as air-assisted airless spraying and electrostatically assisted spraying. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. These actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s operations. 6.2.3.3.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company has defined the following voluntary target aligned with its environmental policy, that should also be put in perspective with the Airbus production ramp up over the 2015-2030 period, on its own operations and operationally controlled entities (see “– 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4)”). Emissions target Pollution of Air Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs baseline VOC emissions in absolute terms tons 2030 1,498 0% increase 2015 1,498 1,230 -18% The methodologies and assumptions for setting this target are based on internal analysis of actionable levers (see section “– 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2)”) and also take into account production ramp-up planning. While regulatory thresholds were taken into account in establishing this target, no specific additional direct relation to scientific evidence or stakeholder involvement was considered. The metrics for this target have not changed since its inception. 2024 VOC emission trend followed aircraft production. 2024 VOC emissions stood below the 2030 target while the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.3.3.4 ​ Metrics (E2-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Only the Hamburg site exceeds the threshold specified in ESRS E2 for VOC reporting (as per Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006). In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter (VOC on Target perimeter). On this perimeter, most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling activity-based extrapolation modeling. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). The main VOC emissions sources derive from surface treatment, cleaning, painting and coating operations through the use of the following materials: Solvents: halogenated (TCE, MC), non-halogenated and ODS (Ozone Depleting Substance) solvents (HFCF 141b) excluding paints and coatings; Solvated paints and coatings: primers, wash primers, topcoats and specific coating (for structural & non-structural parts). When VOC emissions are not measured by the concerned entity, a computation is performed by the concerned entities and is mainly based on a mass-balance approach, therefore taking into account the quantity of VOC in above-mentioned consumed materials (excluding wasted products). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 190"
"Direct measurement has been prioritised on certain sites where measured data is regulatory required, while associated cost benefit ratio was deemed insufficient for other sites. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Emissions Metrics - Pollution of Air Unit 2024 VOC tons 155 VOC on Target perimeter ⚐ tons 1,230 6.2.3.4 ​Pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food The Company has identified that its environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities related to pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food are found exclusively within the up- and downstream value chain as a potential impact of the kerosene production processes. An overview of all IROs related to pollution can be found in section “– 6.2.3.1 IROs Pollution”. While LCA leads to identifying such a potential impact, the Company has limited ability to influence the operations of oil & gas companies and does not have any relevant information. 6.2.4 ​ ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources 6.2.4.1 ​Water IROs The following IROs were identified for water: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-3 - Water Water: > Water consumption > Water withdrawals Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the potential impact of water stress - related to climate change - on water consumption, usage and withdrawal in their industrial operations, within a timely manner relative to the onset of such risks. This could lead to production disruptions, which could negatively affect financial performance. / Own Operations Upstream ESRS E-3 - Water Water - Habitat degradation: Impact See Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources in ESRS E2 Pollution The Company’s water usage is mostly linked to non-industrial uses, including sanitary, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, canteens and fire extinguishing. Around one third of the water withdrawn is used for industrial uses such as climate control of industrial facilities (e.g. clean rooms for satellite assembly, paint-shops), surface treatment, machining and non-destructive testing. Procuring the required water does not currently represent a material cost for the Company as overall withdrawn volumes are relatively limited, especially for its industrial operations. However, securing water availability to operate the industrial processes requiring water is critical for the Company to ensure business continuity. Environmental risks and opportunities are managed following the Company’s ERM system, as described in the section “– 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”. This covers among other risks related to water accessibility in areas of high and extremely high water stress. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 191"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"organisation such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap. ●​ “Reduce” - increase the lifespan of components - A large part of the Company's aircraft products' components last for the aircraft service lifetime, which exceeds 20 years on average. Some components, called life-limited parts (“LLPs”), have a lifetime which is limited for the purposes of airworthiness requirements and need to be replaced at specific intervals based on the aircraft age and usage. ●​ “Repairability - reuse - second life” - With regards to LLPs, easy replacement and availability of parts over the whole programme lifetime are a priority. The Company’s products are maintained and repaired by a number of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MROs) companies and spare parts providers worldwide. The Company's after-sale activities include the sale of spare parts and the provision of maintenance, repair and overhaul services. ●​ “Recycling” - Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company is working on specific initiatives, such as specific loop creation for titanium (see waste related actions) 6.2.6.1 ​Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs The following IROs were identified for resource use and circular economy : ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Actual negative impact The aviation sector's use of titanium in the production of aircraft components represents a relatively high percentage of the resource's global stock and may affect global resource availability. Short-term, mid-term, long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Risk The risk of titanium supply disruption could have an impact on aircraft production and deliveries, which could affect financial performance. / Own operations, Upstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Waste Opportunity An opportunity to reduce waste may arise from optimising the recovery of industrial waste, such as high-value metallic scraps. This could contribute to more efficient industrial processes and to further secure supply and production, which could contribute to financial performance. / Own operations 6.2.6.2 ​Policies (E5-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company’s commitment to reducing environmental impact during production and throughout the product life cycle, eco-design, circularity, and end-of-life considerations (including waste management in its own industrial operations). The Policy focuses on minimising resource depletion (including virgin resources) and the increased use of secondary materials to deliver innovative products and services, although it does not explicitly mention transitioning away from use of virgin resources nor sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources. All considerations for optimising material use shall also, under no circumstance, be detrimental to product safety and shall meet all technical requirements from stringent certification standards. The Airbus Environmental Policy also emphasises the importance of transitioning from a linear economy to a circular one, diverting waste from landfills and avoiding the depletion of natural resources. The policy does not explicitly mention waste hierarchy nor cover the prioritisation of avoidance. The Company's main industrial waste is composed of metallic waste, general waste, chemical waste and packaging waste. Waste from industrial activities represents about three quarters of the total waste generated by the Company’s sites, the remaining portion being waste generated in offices and canteens. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 196"
"6.2.6.3 ​Resource inflows 6.2.6.3.1 ​ Actions and resources (E5-2) A significant portion of the Company's aircraft components last over 20 years, the typical aircraft service lifetime. Some components, known as life-limited parts (LLPs), need replacement at specific intervals. Ensuring easy replacement and availability of LLPs throughout the aircraft's lifecycle is a priority. The Company's products can be maintained and repaired by various maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) companies and spare parts providers globally. After-sales activities include selling spare parts and offering maintenance, repair, and overhaul services. LLPs can be overhauled for use by other operators or for different missions, including passenger-to-freighter conversions to extend aircraft life. The Company also invests in lifecycle assessments (LCA) for environmental impact, following ISO 14040 standards, and completed LCA studies for all commercial aircraft products delivered in 2024. The Company is dedicated to optimising material use as part of its ongoing resource management strategy. The design process prioritises weight reduction through advanced material use optimisation, which has always been a priority in aerospace and which is directly linked to aircraft performance. These refined and optimised design and manufacturing processes for both metallic and composite components can contribute to improved material utilisation rates (buy-to-fly ratios), as well as reductions in weight, material consumption, waste generation, energy consumption, and production costs. For instance, the redesign of metal components using forming technologies such as stamping or forging enables significant material usage reduction compared to machining from a solid plate. The scope of this action encompasses manufacturing processes across the Company, from its R&D phase to its operational deployments that benefits of material use optimisation may be realised Company-wide. This initiative is designed to be a continuous effort. In the context of the EU Critical Raw Material regulation, the Company has established and maintains an internal methodology to assess the criticality of raw materials based on supply risk, environmental, and human rights impacts. This initiative is driven by the increasing cross-boundary measures impacting the supply of critical raw materials. Based on this, a regularly updated watchlist of the most critical raw materials has been defined to influence design and sourcing choices. Launched in 2023, this initiative fundamentally aims to identify vulnerabilities to mitigate risks associated with raw material supply. The mapping of critical and strategic raw materials is ongoing in the Commercial Aircraft business. The Company’s sustainability and environment competency strategy seeks to cover, among others, circularity. Accordingly, since 2023 training modules are available to employees through the Company’s training catalogue. Examples of modules are “Circular economy – sustainable materials management”, “What is circular economy”, “Implementing circular economy processes”, “Circular design and manufacturing in practice”, “From linear to circular thinking”. All of these actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.6.3.2 ​ Targets (E5-3) The Company has not and does not plan to set a target on this topic. The success of these actions is contingent upon securing commercial agreements and consolidating demand rather than focusing on volume-based objectives. Despite the absence of measurable targets, the Company tracks the effectiveness of its policies and actions in relation to material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. This is achieved through a dedicated multi-functional team with various skills such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management that is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap that sets priorities for material inflows, manages projects, and monitors progress. As mentioned under “– 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2)”), weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. 6.2.6.4 ​Waste 6.2.6.4.1 ​ Actions and resources (E5-2) Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, including titanium, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company has made substantial strides in standardising and harmonising recycling and sorting practices across its operations while managing compliance with local regulations applicable to it. In Europe, these practices have been harmonised, and efforts are ongoing to achieve Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 197"
"the same in Canada, the US, Mexico, Morocco and Tunisia. This action applies to the whole Company and is continuous in nature. In its ongoing efforts to support the aerospace sector, the Company is actively engaged in strategic raw material management, with a particular focus on titanium. The Company is developing, in collaboration with relevant suppliers, closed-loop scrap recycling systems for titanium, aiming to reduce the need and reliance on primary alloys by increasing the use of secondary flows within the aerospace sector, thereby supporting the balance of offer and demand for titanium and bolstering titanium aerospace sovereignty. The further development of closed loops with suppliers of raw materials for titanium for aerospace grades is currently under assessment. The deployment of this action has commenced in 2024 at selected Company sites and is gradually implemented on a case-by-case basis across Company’s operations. Over the past years and including in 2024, the Company has focused on metering and on data robustness and accuracy for measuring waste, with a focus on standardising the practices towards waste collectors and in line with regulatory requirements for greater traceability. The objective is to enhance data monitoring, reporting and forecasting capabilities in order to steer efforts through sites on waste management. This includes a harmonisation of definitions, processes and assumptions. Digitalisation is leveraged as an enabler to optimise and reduce the environmental footprint, exemplified by the collection and management of waste data on a single company-wide platform to provide a holistic view of waste generated and facilitate more efficient decision-making. Priority has been given to commercial aircraft activities due to the industrial ramp-up. As of the reporting year, most of the total waste volume produced is tracked and reported on company level on a monthly basis (see table in section “– 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5)” below). This initiative aims at reaching a consistent level of data maturity across all sites, thereby enhancing the Company's ability to manage waste and meet policy objectives. Moving forward, the Company will continue to onboard new sites to maintain and improve this standard of data accuracy and transparency. All of these actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. The Company is set to embark on a comprehensive waste reduction roadmap starting in 2025. This initiative aims to focus on developing and implementing strategies to minimise waste at the Company's main industrial sites. The roadmap would contribute to the Company's long-term sustainability strategy, guiding the Company towards continuous improvement in waste management. This action applies Company-wide and is continuous in nature. 6.2.6.4.2 ​ Targets (E5-3) The Company has set a voluntary objective of reducing these overall waste amounts: Resources use & circular economy target Waste Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Waste produced excluding exceptional waste tons 2030 90,764 -20% 2015 113,455 89,387 -21% Additional targets : with 0% directed to disposal, i.e. landfill and incineration without energy recovery Scope: Own operations and operationally controlled entities Assumptions: see “– 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5)” The target relates to all the layers of the waste hierarchy indicated by the ESRS: prevention, preparing for re-use, recycling, other recovery (e.g. energy recovery) and disposal. These targets align with the Company's broader objective to become a recognised leader in environmental engagement and drive eco-efficiency to sustain its business and growth. The targets are measured relative to the 2015 baseline, and span from 2015 to 2030. The scope of these targets is limited to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities and defined methodologies and assumptions are used to measure progress. Waste figures are based on actual data measured. The target was developed on the basis of internal waste reduction perspectives and industry benchmark rather than conclusive scientific evidence. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted Company functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 198"
"In 2024, the Company updated its double-materiality assessment and refined its methodology to align it with CSRD requirements, as described hereinabove. As recommended in the non-binding Implementation Guidelines for Materiality Assessment, the Company intends to confirm or review (and update) its material matters once a year by taking into account: whether or not material changes in the Company's organisational and operational structure occurred, whether or not external factors occurred in the reporting year, and/or whether or not substantial new information was obtained as the Company progresses in its understanding of topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities. Depending on the significance of these events and developments, the Company would either review the existing DMA or perform a full-scale DMA to ensure the material sustainability matters are properly reported. The 2025 review process is likely to include a benchmark analysis derived from first CSRD reports from other European companies. Complementary disclosure requirements for specific topical ESRS on the description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities: E1 Climate change The Company performed an advanced climate impact and risk assessment. This included the consideration of an analysis of GHG emissions from own operations, a screening of all Scope 3 categories, that identified the usage of Airbus products (i.e. Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products) as representing a significant proportion of total emissions. Share of Scope 3 Category 11 - Use of Sold Products emission in total emissions >90% The Company also identified climate related risks following a TCFD-aligned approach, that included a screening of its sites and assets potential vulnerabilities to climate hazards (see “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3)”. Such analyses considered time horizons, assumptions and scenarios (see “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)“). See “– 6.2.2 E1 - Climate Change” chapter for full description. E2 Pollution IRO identification processes considered all business operations and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company has screened the annual declarations made by its sites to local authorities in the context of the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) regulation. Number of facilities exceeding the 100 tonnes threshold for VOC emissions listed in the E-PRTR regulation Annex II. 1 (Hamburg) Impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach, such as the one in relation with kerosene production. For SOC/SOVHC, risks and opportunities have also been assessed using the register of the Company’s top company risks, according to the ERM process. This risk notably applies to aircraft manufacturing and is therefore connected to all sites with such industrial operations and handling chemicals. The materiality assessment did not involve direct consultations with affected communities. E3 Water and marine resources IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites from which environmental data is collected (see “– 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)” and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. The Company analysed current and projected local water stress levels to understand where the Company’s activities have the greatest impact on water resources and where risks of business disruption linked to restrictions on the use of water are the most significant. This analysis is based inter alia on the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas; this analysis was last updated with the August 2023 update of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (version 4.0), using the “baseline” data as well as the 2030 scenarios. This analysis allowed to identify that the Company operates facilities located in high or extremely high water stress areas in Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Morocco, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia, UK, US. It includes sites from Commercial Aircraft, Airbus Helicopters and Airbus Defence and Space. As for ESRS E2, impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. The materiality assessment did not involve consultations with affected communities. E4 Biodiversity The Company is still progressing its understanding of the impact of its activities and those of its value chain on biodiversity. IRO identification was informed by the IPBES report's findings that there are five significant drivers of biodiversity loss: changing use of sea and lands, direct exploitation of organisms, Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 149"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"organisation such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap. ●​ “Reduce” - increase the lifespan of components - A large part of the Company's aircraft products' components last for the aircraft service lifetime, which exceeds 20 years on average. Some components, called life-limited parts (“LLPs”), have a lifetime which is limited for the purposes of airworthiness requirements and need to be replaced at specific intervals based on the aircraft age and usage. ●​ “Repairability - reuse - second life” - With regards to LLPs, easy replacement and availability of parts over the whole programme lifetime are a priority. The Company’s products are maintained and repaired by a number of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MROs) companies and spare parts providers worldwide. The Company's after-sale activities include the sale of spare parts and the provision of maintenance, repair and overhaul services. ●​ “Recycling” - Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company is working on specific initiatives, such as specific loop creation for titanium (see waste related actions) 6.2.6.1 ​Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs The following IROs were identified for resource use and circular economy : ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Actual negative impact The aviation sector's use of titanium in the production of aircraft components represents a relatively high percentage of the resource's global stock and may affect global resource availability. Short-term, mid-term, long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Risk The risk of titanium supply disruption could have an impact on aircraft production and deliveries, which could affect financial performance. / Own operations, Upstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Waste Opportunity An opportunity to reduce waste may arise from optimising the recovery of industrial waste, such as high-value metallic scraps. This could contribute to more efficient industrial processes and to further secure supply and production, which could contribute to financial performance. / Own operations 6.2.6.2 ​Policies (E5-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company’s commitment to reducing environmental impact during production and throughout the product life cycle, eco-design, circularity, and end-of-life considerations (including waste management in its own industrial operations). The Policy focuses on minimising resource depletion (including virgin resources) and the increased use of secondary materials to deliver innovative products and services, although it does not explicitly mention transitioning away from use of virgin resources nor sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources. All considerations for optimising material use shall also, under no circumstance, be detrimental to product safety and shall meet all technical requirements from stringent certification standards. The Airbus Environmental Policy also emphasises the importance of transitioning from a linear economy to a circular one, diverting waste from landfills and avoiding the depletion of natural resources. The policy does not explicitly mention waste hierarchy nor cover the prioritisation of avoidance. The Company's main industrial waste is composed of metallic waste, general waste, chemical waste and packaging waste. Waste from industrial activities represents about three quarters of the total waste generated by the Company’s sites, the remaining portion being waste generated in offices and canteens. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 196"
"6.2.6.3 ​Resource inflows 6.2.6.3.1 ​ Actions and resources (E5-2) A significant portion of the Company's aircraft components last over 20 years, the typical aircraft service lifetime. Some components, known as life-limited parts (LLPs), need replacement at specific intervals. Ensuring easy replacement and availability of LLPs throughout the aircraft's lifecycle is a priority. The Company's products can be maintained and repaired by various maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) companies and spare parts providers globally. After-sales activities include selling spare parts and offering maintenance, repair, and overhaul services. LLPs can be overhauled for use by other operators or for different missions, including passenger-to-freighter conversions to extend aircraft life. The Company also invests in lifecycle assessments (LCA) for environmental impact, following ISO 14040 standards, and completed LCA studies for all commercial aircraft products delivered in 2024. The Company is dedicated to optimising material use as part of its ongoing resource management strategy. The design process prioritises weight reduction through advanced material use optimisation, which has always been a priority in aerospace and which is directly linked to aircraft performance. These refined and optimised design and manufacturing processes for both metallic and composite components can contribute to improved material utilisation rates (buy-to-fly ratios), as well as reductions in weight, material consumption, waste generation, energy consumption, and production costs. For instance, the redesign of metal components using forming technologies such as stamping or forging enables significant material usage reduction compared to machining from a solid plate. The scope of this action encompasses manufacturing processes across the Company, from its R&D phase to its operational deployments that benefits of material use optimisation may be realised Company-wide. This initiative is designed to be a continuous effort. In the context of the EU Critical Raw Material regulation, the Company has established and maintains an internal methodology to assess the criticality of raw materials based on supply risk, environmental, and human rights impacts. This initiative is driven by the increasing cross-boundary measures impacting the supply of critical raw materials. Based on this, a regularly updated watchlist of the most critical raw materials has been defined to influence design and sourcing choices. Launched in 2023, this initiative fundamentally aims to identify vulnerabilities to mitigate risks associated with raw material supply. The mapping of critical and strategic raw materials is ongoing in the Commercial Aircraft business. The Company’s sustainability and environment competency strategy seeks to cover, among others, circularity. Accordingly, since 2023 training modules are available to employees through the Company’s training catalogue. Examples of modules are “Circular economy – sustainable materials management”, “What is circular economy”, “Implementing circular economy processes”, “Circular design and manufacturing in practice”, “From linear to circular thinking”. All of these actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.6.3.2 ​ Targets (E5-3) The Company has not and does not plan to set a target on this topic. The success of these actions is contingent upon securing commercial agreements and consolidating demand rather than focusing on volume-based objectives. Despite the absence of measurable targets, the Company tracks the effectiveness of its policies and actions in relation to material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. This is achieved through a dedicated multi-functional team with various skills such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management that is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap that sets priorities for material inflows, manages projects, and monitors progress. As mentioned under “– 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2)”), weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. 6.2.6.4 ​Waste 6.2.6.4.1 ​ Actions and resources (E5-2) Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, including titanium, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company has made substantial strides in standardising and harmonising recycling and sorting practices across its operations while managing compliance with local regulations applicable to it. In Europe, these practices have been harmonised, and efforts are ongoing to achieve Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 197"
"the same in Canada, the US, Mexico, Morocco and Tunisia. This action applies to the whole Company and is continuous in nature. In its ongoing efforts to support the aerospace sector, the Company is actively engaged in strategic raw material management, with a particular focus on titanium. The Company is developing, in collaboration with relevant suppliers, closed-loop scrap recycling systems for titanium, aiming to reduce the need and reliance on primary alloys by increasing the use of secondary flows within the aerospace sector, thereby supporting the balance of offer and demand for titanium and bolstering titanium aerospace sovereignty. The further development of closed loops with suppliers of raw materials for titanium for aerospace grades is currently under assessment. The deployment of this action has commenced in 2024 at selected Company sites and is gradually implemented on a case-by-case basis across Company’s operations. Over the past years and including in 2024, the Company has focused on metering and on data robustness and accuracy for measuring waste, with a focus on standardising the practices towards waste collectors and in line with regulatory requirements for greater traceability. The objective is to enhance data monitoring, reporting and forecasting capabilities in order to steer efforts through sites on waste management. This includes a harmonisation of definitions, processes and assumptions. Digitalisation is leveraged as an enabler to optimise and reduce the environmental footprint, exemplified by the collection and management of waste data on a single company-wide platform to provide a holistic view of waste generated and facilitate more efficient decision-making. Priority has been given to commercial aircraft activities due to the industrial ramp-up. As of the reporting year, most of the total waste volume produced is tracked and reported on company level on a monthly basis (see table in section “– 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5)” below). This initiative aims at reaching a consistent level of data maturity across all sites, thereby enhancing the Company's ability to manage waste and meet policy objectives. Moving forward, the Company will continue to onboard new sites to maintain and improve this standard of data accuracy and transparency. All of these actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s usual operations. The Company is set to embark on a comprehensive waste reduction roadmap starting in 2025. This initiative aims to focus on developing and implementing strategies to minimise waste at the Company's main industrial sites. The roadmap would contribute to the Company's long-term sustainability strategy, guiding the Company towards continuous improvement in waste management. This action applies Company-wide and is continuous in nature. 6.2.6.4.2 ​ Targets (E5-3) The Company has set a voluntary objective of reducing these overall waste amounts: Resources use & circular economy target Waste Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Waste produced excluding exceptional waste tons 2030 90,764 -20% 2015 113,455 89,387 -21% Additional targets : with 0% directed to disposal, i.e. landfill and incineration without energy recovery Scope: Own operations and operationally controlled entities Assumptions: see “– 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5)” The target relates to all the layers of the waste hierarchy indicated by the ESRS: prevention, preparing for re-use, recycling, other recovery (e.g. energy recovery) and disposal. These targets align with the Company's broader objective to become a recognised leader in environmental engagement and drive eco-efficiency to sustain its business and growth. The targets are measured relative to the 2015 baseline, and span from 2015 to 2030. The scope of these targets is limited to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities and defined methodologies and assumptions are used to measure progress. Waste figures are based on actual data measured. The target was developed on the basis of internal waste reduction perspectives and industry benchmark rather than conclusive scientific evidence. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted Company functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 198"
"Performance monitoring is a component of the Company's waste management strategy. The Company relies on waste slips forwarded electronically by waste suppliers in large proportions, while the remaining is estimated based on past waste volumes. This dual approach aims to provide a comprehensive view. In 2024, non-exceptional waste production grew moderately, due to aircraft production ramp up effects partially offset by savings from initiatives described above (see “– 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2)”). The 2024 level stood below the 2030 target, while the trajectory towards this target factors in the expected effects from upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.6.4.3 ​ Metrics (E5-5) Scope of reporting and methodology Reported data covers the Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by waste contractors, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). The Company waste target includes all waste generated except ""exceptional waste”, as defined below. As a result, relevant information is disclosed in the waste data table. The quantity of waste of a site is the compilation of all types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste on site. This includes in particular waste created by production processes on a regular basis and treated internally and externally. If the internal treatment leads to cessation of the ""waste"" status, then the amount concerned is not reported (e.g. reuse on site, regulatory “end of waste” status, “by-products”). Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% Estimated share of final waste treatment information pending waste collector information % of total waste volume 15% * “employee” includes active corkforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Notes related to categories and treatments: Exceptional waste: Waste from the construction/deconstruction of buildings, dismantling of installations, and incidents caused by external factors beyond the Company’s control (e.g. fire, weather events). Recycling: backfilling operations are included in the recycling volumes as per the European Waste Framework Directive reporting guidelines. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 199"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"climate change, pollution, and invasive non-native species. Using these five drivers is also prescribed as a framework for analysis by ESRS E4 and was used by the Company to compile an inventory of potential impacts. It considered a number of sources of information, amongst which the aircraft Life Cycle Analysis - that notably quantifies impacts related to land use change, soil, water pollution across the value chain. The indirect impact of climate change appeared as a salient effect on biodiversity as well the indirect impact of aviation fuel production. The Company has considered the proximity of its sites relative to biodiversity-sensitive areas and the nature of operations in the value chain, including existing or potential pollution impacts. To date, the Company has identified limited dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems within its value chain, including by screening its resource inflows and considering its business model, and primarily due to the fact that manufacturing processes mostly rely on mineral or fossil resources.This limited dependency on ecosystem services as identified to date has not led to the identification of biodiversity-related material transition, physical or systemic risks to the Company’s own operations. The Company is reviewing its assessments on an ongoing basis. Going forward, specific attention will be given to the development of SAF production, particularly those pathways that use crops as feedstock and therefore rely on ecosystem services, striving to get a permanent understanding of SAF production development and perspectives, including by engaging on that matter with relevant players in the SAF value chain and industry bodies. Beyond answering to applicable biodiversity related regulatory requirements that may imply to assess and report to authorities deemed to represent communities’ interests, the Company did not specifically engage with any community on biodiversity in the frame of its DMA. Nature of impacts identified, essentially linked to indirect effects of the use of its product on climate change and of the production of kerosene on the water resource, has not permitted identifying specific communities that would be materially affected. Consequently no affected communities has been involved in the materiality assessment nor any priority actions for the avoidance of impacts on ecosystem services relevant to affected communities has been identified. The Company has identified some sites as being located near biodiversity-sensitive areas based on whether they were subject to specific biodiversity-related obligations as per local / national applicable regulations, or otherwise located in or directly adjacent to biodiversity-sensitive areas, including some with manufacturing and flight test activities. Number of sites located near biodiversity-sensitive areas 15 None of these activities have been associated with a material negative impact on local biodiversity. As a result, measures undertaken in the frame of addressing negative impacts on climate change were deemed to be equally relevant for biodiversity mitigation. E5 Resource use and circular economy IRO identification processes considered all business activities, Company sites and products over their life cycle and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. For resource use- and circular economy-related matters, the Company used the results of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies conducted on its commercial aircraft products and considered its procurement volumes per nature of materials covering its overall product portfolio compared with the global resources and specificities related to their sourcing, as well as related airworthiness constraints and certification requirements. It also ran a detailed analysis of waste generated by the Company, including per nature and per site views, as well as in the perspective of its manufacturing processes and of their improvements. The assessment was supported by a number of stakeholders, including a third party expert organisation with experience of identifying and addressing actual or potential impacts and engaging with potentially impacted rightsholders. G1 Business conduct IRO identification processes considered all business activities and Company sites and a number of items specific to the topic, including those mentioned hereafter. Specifically on corruption and bribery, the Company annually conducts a thorough business conduct risk assessment across the Company (based on legal entities), taking into consideration, among others, the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, the size, the activity or the interaction with third parties of the entity. It also considered relevant statistics derived from its grievance mechanism and from the outcomes of associated investigations. On other subtopics, the Company notably considered the amount of lobbying expenses, the amounts spent to its suppliers, related payment terms, as well as the structure of its supply chain. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 150"
"6.1.1.4.2 ​ IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement Some datapoints - or some information - associated with a material topic may have been omitted as deemed not material information. Such items were identified through an exhaustive screening of CSRD datapoints and substantiated by comparing the content of the disclosure requirement with the actual boundaries of the related material IROs and/or their relevance in the Company's context. In certain cases a materiality threshold was used, and notably for finance related information, as explained above in ESRS 2 “– 6.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”. Table. List of the Disclosure Requirements vs. paragraphs where the related disclosures are located in the sustainability statement. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Related disclosure(s) ESRS 2 General Disclosures BASIS FOR PREPARATION BP-1: General basis for preparation if the sustainability statement 6.1.1.1.1 BP-1: General basis for preparation of the sustainability statement BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 6.1.1.1.2 BP-2: Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances GOVERNANCE GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies (AM&SB) 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s AM&SB 6.1.1.2.2 GOV-2: Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes GOV-4: Statement on sustainability due diligence 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting 6.1.1.2.5 GOV-5: Risk management and internal control over sustainability reporting STRATEGY SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain 6.1.1.3.1 SBM-1: Strategy, business model and value chain SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model(s) 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.1 Climate Change IROs 6.2.3.1 Pollution IROs 6.2.4.1 Water IROs 6.2.5.1 Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs 6.2.6.1 Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs 6.3.2.1 Own workforce IROs 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs 6.3.4.1 Consumers and end-users IROs 6.4.1.1 Business Conduct IROs 6.4.2.1 Cybersecurity IROs DISCLOSURE ON THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS IRO-1: Description of processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 6.1.1.4.2 IRO-2: Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement MINIMUM DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS ON POLICIES AND ACTIONS MDR-P: Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) 6.3.1 Policies Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 151"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 2(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 157"
"paragraphs 40 to 43 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 44 Indicators number 1 and 2 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 5(1), 6 and 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 55 Indicators number 3 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 8(1) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 56 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a) ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk. Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c). Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraph 34; Template 2:Banking book -Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property - Energy efficiency of the collateral Phased-in ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities paragraph 69 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Phased-in ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 Indicator number 8 Table #1 of Annex 1 Indicator number 2 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 1 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 3 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) (Air pollution - VOC) ESRS E3-1 Water and marine Indicator number 7 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 158"
"resources paragraph 9 ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 Indicator number 8 Table 2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) Indicator number 6.2 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 Indicator number 6.1 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i Indicator number 7 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) Indicator number 10 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS 2- SBM-3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) Indicator number 14 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24(b) Indicator number 11 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) Indicator number 15 Table #2 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) Indicator number 13 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 Indicator number 9 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) (Radioactive waste - Not material) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 159"
"ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labour paragraph 14 (f) Indicator number 13 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS 2- SBM-3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g) Indicator number 12 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 20 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S1-1 processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 Indicator number 11 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-1 workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 Indicator number 1 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) ESRS S1-3 grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) Indicator number 5 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work- related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) Indicator number 2 Table #3 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) Indicator number 3 Table #3 of Annex I 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) Indicator number 12 Table #1 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) Indicator number 8 Table #3 of Annex I Not material ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) Indicator number 7 Table #3 of Annex I Not material Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 160"
"ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD Guidelines paragraph 104 (a) Indicator number 10 Table #1 and Indicator n. 14 Table #3 of Annex I Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 Art 12 (1) Not material ESRS 2- SBM-3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain paragraph 11 (b) Indicators number 12 and n. 13 Table #3 of Annex I 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs ESRS S2-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 17 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator n. 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 18 Indicator number 11 and n. 4 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) ESRS S2-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines paragraph 19 Indicator number 10 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 19 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence 6.3.1 Policies ESRS S2-4 Human rights issues and incidents connected to its upstream and downstream value chain paragraph 36 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) ESRS S3-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 16 Indicator number 9 Table #3 of Annex 1 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS S3-1 non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights, ILO principles or OECD guidelines paragraph 17 Indicator number 10 Table #1 Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) Not material ESRS S3-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 36 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 Not material ESRS S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users paragraph 16 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 161"
"ESRS S4-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD guidelines paragraph 17 Indicator number 10 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) ESRS S4-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 35 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) ESRS G1-1 United Nations Convention against Corruption paragraph 10 (b) Indicator number 15 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS G1-1 Protection of whistle- blowers paragraph 10 (d) Indicator number 6 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) ESRS G1-4 Fines for violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws paragraph 24 (a) Indicator number 17 Table #3 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) ESRS G1-4 Standards of anti- corruption and anti- bribery paragraph 24 (b) Indicator number 16 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) (1) Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector (Sustainable Finance Disclosures Regulation) (OJ L 317, 9.12.2019, p. 1). (2) Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (Capital Requirements Regulation “CRR”) (OJ L 176,27.6.2013, p. 1). (3) Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/17/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (OJ L 171, 29.6.2016, p. 1). (4) Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 2021 establishing the framework for achieving climate neutrality and amending Regulations (EC) No 401/2009 and (EU) 2018/1999 (‘European Climate Law’) (OJ L 243, 9.7.2021, p. 1). (5) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the explanation in the benchmark statement of how environmental, social and governance factors are reflected in each benchmark provided and published (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 1). (6) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 of 30 November 2022 amending the implementing technical standards laid down in Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/637 as regards the disclosure of environmental, social and governance risks (OJ L 324,19.12.2022, p.1.). (7) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards minimum standards for EU Climate Transition Benchmarks and EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks (OJ L 406, 3.12.2020, p. 17). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 162"
"6.2 ​Environmental information 6.2.1 ​ Policies Environmental policy The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company's guiding principles, vision, mission, and associated initiatives relating to environmental sustainability. This policy applies to the Company’s own operations, therefore including to affiliates where the Company owns more than half of the voting rights or has the right to appoint the majority of the Board directors. It also covers the Company’s employees and contractors while at its sites or at work under its responsibility. The policy acknowledges that our planet is facing substantial challenges such as climate change, water, soil and air pollution, resource scarcity and loss of biodiversity. It mandates the development of products and services that minimise environmental impacts, particularly addressing climate change, pollution, and resource use. To enable such an ambition, the Company has set a number of environmental targets, as presented in the respective ESRS. They relate both to the Company's own operations (e.g. GHG emissions, from both stationary sources and mobile sources - including flight test and logistics -, energy - including the use of energy sources -, water, waste management, VOC) and its value chain (e.g. GHG emissions of sold products) and cover material impacts. Compliance with applicable environmental regulations and maintaining the ISO 14001:2015 Certified Environmental Management System (EMS) are integral components of the Company's commitment to its environmental stewardship. The Company’s environmental strategy is implemented operationally by dedicated multifunctional teams at corporate and/or divisional level. These cover topics such as industrial and site impact, product operation, supply chain and substances. In addition, the Company’s ISO 14001 certified EMS notably applies the standard recommendations for pollution control audits, training, risk assessment and identification, implementation of risk prevention procedures (emergency plans, simulation exercises). For example, sites shall conduct an analysis of environmental aspects and impacts at least every three years, as well as each time a material change in operations occurs, also in connection with the Company’s ERM process. While the EMS sets requirements, actual deployment, concrete means and measures are managed at site level and adapted to the nature of a site’s industrial activities and to applicable regulations. For instance, in Toulouse and linked to flight test activities, concerned employees systematically follow dedicated training sessions, including on instructions for fuel handling or on procedures to follow in case of an incident. Also, each year, more than five spill-related emergency situations (e.g. a kerosene leak or a fire-fighting water spill) are conducted to test defined emergency plans. At least one emergency situation is performed in coordination with local authorities. EMS certification coverage Unit 2024 % employees covered by ISO 14001 certified EMS % 90% In addition, an increasing number of sites, including for instance in Spanish sites and Marignane, are certified ISO 50001:2018 for energy management and therefore apply embedded requirements such as running energy audits that enable the identification of improvements or the deployment of related training for concerned employees. The policy is based on principles including integrity, innovation, sustainability, and engaging stakeholders throughout the value chain that aim to inform all decisions, actions and practices in the scope of the Company’s environmental roadmap. The Company commits to complying with its obligations under environmental regulations and standards, minimising environmental impacts through responsible decision-making, leveraging advanced technologies for continual improvement, and integrating environmental, societal, and economic considerations into its business strategy. The policy places significant emphasis on stakeholder collaboration, engaging with suppliers and the aerospace sector to encourage sustainable practices and promote responsible environmental management within the supply chain. A lifecycle perspective is adopted, considering environmental impacts - including GHG and air emissions, pollution, water, circularity, and other dimensions - from product design to end-of-life. The Company invests in lifecycle assessments (LCA) for environmental impact accounting associated with a specific product, in accordance with the requirements specified in the ISO 14040 standard. LCA studies have been finalised for all commercial aircraft products delivered in 2024. In addition, the Company is deploying frameworks enabling design choices to reduce the footprint of operations, projects and products and optimise aspects such as product end-of-life management and critical raw materials usage. For instance, environmental assessments are being used to assist the research and technology decision-making processes related to commercial aircraft activities. The Defence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 163"
"and Space Division also uses LCA as part of the development of the Sentinel satellites that are built for the European Space Agency. The monitoring process within Airbus Environmental Policy involves several key components: -​ compliance monitoring of the Company’s adherence to its obligations under environmental laws, regulations, and standards; -​ performance evaluation committed to the continuous improvement of environmental reporting and performance evaluation processes; -​ stakeholder engagement to strengthen cooperation and communication with both internal and external stakeholders, for instance with suppliers, customers, industry bodies, -​ and risk management to anticipate legislative changes and effectively manage compliance risks to maintain robust environmental standards. Employees’ awareness, training and competence management is another key dimension supporting the proper deployment of the policy throughout the organisation and embedded in the Company’s business management system. Under the oversight of the Human Resource function, competence gaps are identified and addressed through dedicated training schemes. The Chief Sustainability Officer is accountable for the policy. The policy development followed the related requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 Standard. It is available to all employees, and a policy statement signed by the CEO is available on the Company’s public website. Environmental operations are led by the Sustainability organisation, whose role is to guide the business on environmental matters and to set the policy and deploy, drive and improve the EMS throughout the Company. 6.2.2 ​ ESRS E1 - Climate change 6.2.2.1 ​Climate Change IROs The following IROs were identified for climate change: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change mitigation Actual negative impact The operations at the Company's facilities and the air transport sector's use of aircraft in operations lead to GHG emissions. The Company's purchased goods and services contain GHG emissions. Short-term,mid -term and long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Energy Actual negative impact Energy consumption/mix usage originating from the Company's facilities, the suppliers’ facilities and the air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation lead to GHG emissions. Short-term, mid-term and long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change adaptation Physical risk The climate adaptation risk includes the risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the acute or chronic impacts of future climate change on their industrial sites. Additionally, failure to adapt products to perform effectively under future atmospheric conditions in a timely manner, relative to the speed of these risks' onset or time horizon could lead to production disruptions or a product offering that no longer meets customer expectations. This could negatively affect financial performance. See “– 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) ESRS E1 Climate change Climate change mitigation Transition risk The climate mitigation risk includes the risk that the Company or its suppliers may not meet their decarbonisation ambitions or the late availability of low emissions technology could lead to, respectively, investor mistrust or products failing to meet customer expectations. This could negatively affect financial performance. Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream (Use of Products) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 164"
"6.3.2.3 Own workforce Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.2.2 Policies MDR-A: Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions (S2-4) 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources MINIMUM DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS ON METRICS AND TARGETS MDR-M: Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4) 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) 6.4.2.5 Metrics MDR-T: Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics 6.4.2.4 Targets ESRS 1 - CLIMATE CHANGE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 6.1.1.2.3 GOV-3: Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 152"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 2(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 157"
"o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs 6.2.2.3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1) and Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.2.4 Policies (E1-2) o Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) o Disclosure Requirement E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) o Disclosure Requirement E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6) o Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 6.2.2.9 GHG removals and carbon credits (E1-7) o Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 6.2.1.10 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) ESRS E2 - POLLUTION ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.3.2.1 Policies (E2-1) 6.2.3.3.1 Policies (E2-1) o Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 6.2.3.2.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 6.2.3.2.3 Targets (E2-3) 6.2.3.3.3 Targets (E2-3) o Disclosure Requirement E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 6.2.3.2.4 Metrics (E2-5) 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-5) ESRS E3 - WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.4.2 Policies (E3-1) o Disclosure Requirement E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3) o Disclosure Requirement E3-4 – Water consumption 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 153"
"ESRS E4 - BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 6.2.5.2 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.2.5.3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.5.4 Policies (E4-2) o Disclosure Requirement E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.5 Actions and resources (E4-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) o Disclosure Requirement E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 6.2.5.6 Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) ESRS E5 - RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.1 Policies 6.2.6.2 Policies (E5-1) o Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) 6.2.6.4.1 Actions and resources (E5-2) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 6.2.6.3.2 Targets (E5-3) 6.2.6.4.2 Targets (E5-3) o Disclosure Requirement E5-5 – Resource outflows 6.2.6.4.3 Metrics (E5-5) ESRS S1 - OWN WORKFORCE ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.2.3 Own workforce policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.7.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.8.1 Policies (S1-1) 6.3.2.9.1 Policies (S1-1) o Disclosure Requirement S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts 6.3.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts (S1-2) o Disclosure Requirement S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 6.3.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns (S1-3) o Disclosure Requirement S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.2.7.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.8.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) 6.3.2.9.2 Actions and resources (S1-4) Metrics and targets Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 154"
"o Disclosure Requirement S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.2.7.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.8.3 Targets (S1-5) 6.3.2.9.3 Targets (S1-5) o Disclosure Requirement S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6) o Disclosure Requirement S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 6.3.2.9.4 Metrics (S1-8) o Disclosure Requirement S1-9 – Diversity metrics 6.3.2.8.4 Metrics (S1-9) o Disclosure Requirement S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 6.3.2.7.4 Metrics (S1-14) ESRS S2 - WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.3.1 Workers in the value chain IROs o Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.3.3 Policies related to value chain workers (S2-1) o Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 6.3.3.4 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts (S2-2) o Disclosure Requirement S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 6.3.3.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns (S2-3) o Disclosure Requirement S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.3.6 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those action (S2-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.3.7 Targets related to material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities (S2-5) ESRS S4 - CONSUMERS AND END-USERS ESRS 2 General Disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-2 – Interests and views of stakeholders 6.1.1.3.2 SBM-2: Interests and views of stakeholders o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 6.3.4.1 Consumer and end-user IROs 6.3.4.1.2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impact, risk and opportunity management o Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users 6.3.1 Policies 6.3.4.2 Policies related to consumers and end-users (S4-1) o Disclosure Requirement S4-2 – Processes for engaging with consumers and end users about impacts 6.3.4.3 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts (S4-2) o Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 6.3.4.4 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns (S4-3) o Disclosure Requirement S4-4 – Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions 6.3.4.5 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end-users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions (S4-4) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement S4-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.3.4.6 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts and managing material risks and opportunities (S4-5) and metrics Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 155"
"ESRS G1 - BUSINESS CONDUCT ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Governance o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies Impact, risk and opportunity management 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs o Disclosure Requirement G1-1– Corporate culture and business conduct policies and corporate culture 6.4.1.2 Business conduct policies and corporate culture (G1-1) o Disclosure Requirement G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 6.4.1.5 Management of relationships with suppliers (G1-2) o Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 6.4.1.3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery (G1-3) Metrics and targets o Disclosure Requirement G1-4 – Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 6.4.1.4 Incidents of corruption or bribery (G1-4) o Disclosure Requirement G1-6 – Payment practices 6.4.1.6 Payment practices (G1-6) COMPANY SPECIFIC - CYBERSECURITY ESRS 2 General disclosures See above Strategy o Disclosure Requirement related to ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Impacts, risks and opportunities management 6.1.1.3.3 SBM-3: Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model o Policies 6.4.2.2 Policies o Taking action, and effectiveness of those actions 6.4.2.3 Actions and resources Metrics and targets o Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 6.4.2.4 Targets o Metrics 6.4.2.5 Metrics Table. Datapoints that derive from other EU legislations Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR (1) reference Pillar 3 (2) reference Benchmark Regulation (3) reference EU Climate Law (4) reference Sustainability Statement ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II 6.1.1.2.1 GOV-1: The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 6.1.1.2.4 GOV-4: Statement on due diligence Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 156"
"ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 2(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1) ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 6.2.2.7 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 157"
"The Company is insured against the risks linked to climate-related events that could arise in the short term. The Company has subscribed a property damage and business interruption insurance policy including the impact of natural hazards, covering earthquake, wind and flood, and any other natural event not defined as earthquake, wind and flood, including but not limited to hail, avalanche, snowfall/weight of snow, and mudflow. With regards to its aircraft products, the Company is engaged in adapting its products to the changing climate, recognising the sensitivity of these products to weather phenomena during their operational phase. This proactive approach is essential due to the long lead times associated with aircraft development and operation. To address this, the Company is participating in the European Network - Impact of Climate Change on Aviation (EN-ICCA), an industry working group launched by EASA. The objective of this group is to define a work programme aimed at enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening resilience, and reducing vulnerability to climate change within the aviation sector. Additionally, the Company is engaged in the creation of a working group with ICAO, further demonstrating its commitment to this critical issue. The scope of this action encompasses the downstream value chain on a worldwide scale, with the first assessment scheduled for Q1 2025. This action is continuous and does not have a fixed time horizon. 6.2.2.6 ​Targets (E1-4) The Company has set itself three targets to manage material climate-related impacts and risks: Scopes 1 & 2 The Company aims to reduce its Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions as shown in the table below, and to yearly neutralise all residual emissions. Energy target - Scope 1 & 2 emissions SBTi-validated, aligned with a 1.5°C scenario Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Scope 1 & 2 market-based emissions ktCO2e 2030 467 -63% 2015 1,262 Intermediate milestones, on TCO scope ktCO2e 2025 509 -3% 2024 524 ktCO2e 2024 581 -2% 2023 592 Assumptions: see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” The target is set on the aggregate of Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based. While the plan defined to reach this target includes actions differentiated for Scope 1 and Scope 2, no additional sub-targets were formalised for Scope 1 and Scope 2 separately. The Scopes 1 and 2 target is validated by SBTi as being science-based and aligned with a 1.5°C scenario. The 2015 baseline has been set Company-wide as per SBTi requirements. The Company is considering future developments and their impacts on its Scopes 1 and 2 target, in line with requirements of applicable SBTi guidance and as outlined in the Transition Plan (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). The SBTI Guidance 4.2 methodology was used to set the target and the Company sets-out to update the target at least every five years, in accordance with applicable SBTi guidance. A 2050 target has not yet been defined. This Company-wide target covers the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (market-based for Scope 2) and target boundaries were defined in accordance with SBTi guidance 4.2. To operationalise the 2030 target, it is broken down in annual reduction targets and reductions are allocated across sites: they refer to a material sub-perimeter of its operations, referred to as Top Company Objectives (“TCO”) scope, on which the Company can have a more direct control and influence, and used by the Company to steer its annual progress (see “Scope of reporting and methodology” in “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)”). The target is a combined target for Scopes 1 and 2 which has been defined along guidelines set-out by SBTi guidance 4.2, including its baseline value. No intensity target has been set. For Scope 2 emissions, the target is based on the market-based GHG accounting method. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, incl. Facility Management, Industrial Operations, Finance, and Procurement, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. Target achievement is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly and monthly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with expectations - see “– 6.2.2.8 GHG Emissions (E1-6)” for more details on achievements. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing and site operations to reduce emissions in line with the ambition of the Paris Agreement. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 179"
"Scope 3 - Use of sold products The Company aims to reduce the emission intensity of its commercial aircraft products: Energy target - Scope 3 Use of sold products SBTi-validated Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Commercial aircraft products emissions intensity gCO2/RPK* 2035 48.0 -46% 2015 88.8 Scope: Company's commercial aircraft Assumptions: average of emissions intensity of all commercial aircraft delivered in the reporting year * RPK: Revenue Passenger Kilometre The target is validated by SBTi as being science-based and aligned with a “well below 2°C” scenario, which is in line with the required level of ambition for a Scope 3 target according to SBTi’s “Corporate near-term criteria version 5.2”. Compatibility of the target with 1.5°C will be assessed when relevant guidance from the EU Commission becomes available. The Company is considering future developments and their impacts on its Scope 3 target, in line with requirements of applicable SBTi guidance and as outlined in the Transition Plan (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). The SBTi Guidance 4.2 methodology was used to set the target and the Company sets-out to update the target at least every five years, in accordance to applicable SBTi guidance. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to develop products and services that enable a reduction of emissions in line with the ambition of the Paris Agreement. A 2050 target has not yet been defined. The set target covers the use of sold products of all commercial aircraft sold (for more information on scope 3 coverage see 6.2.2.8 “GHG emissions”). The target boundaries and baseline value are defined in accordance with SBTi guidance 4.2. The 2015 baseline has been set based on Scope 3 “use of sold product” for commercial aircraft deliveries in 2015, as per SBTi guidance. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, including Strategy, Engineering, Finance, Programmes and Services, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. The Company's progress on the target is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with projections. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. An absolute target has not been defined for Scope 3. Energy The Company aims to reduce purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources across the whole Company reporting scope. This target is aligned with the Scopes 1 & 2 target as the resulting energy consumption reduction is an enabler of the Scopes 1 and 2 target. The Company involved a wide range of internal stakeholders, including Facility Management, Industrial Operations, Finance, and Procurement, as well as the Board, during the target-setting process. Energy target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value Purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources GWh 2030 2,534 -20% 2015 3,167 Scope: Company-wide Assumptions: see “– 6.2.2.2 Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5)"" Target achievement is monitored through the Company’s environmental reporting process, which includes yearly and monthly reporting. Currently, the performance is in line with expectations. The target is aligned with the vision set out in the Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing and site operations to reduce emissions in line with the ambition of reducing resource consumption and associated emissions. No changes were made to the target during the reporting period. Please refer to the section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)” for information on decarbonisation levers, plans to adopt new technologies as well as progress against GHG targets. With regards to the energy target related to stationary sources, energy consumption reduced in 2024 despite a production growth context, supported by significant gas consumption containment, better heating monitoring and temperature control as well as clement weather conditions. The 2024 energy target-related metric stood close to the 2030 target, however the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 180"
"Climate adaptation The Company has not set targets for climate adaptation, as this topic is currently managed through the existing risk management process. 6.2.2.7 ​Energy Consumption and Mix (E1-5) Scope of reporting: Reported data covers Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by energy suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling adapted to each metrics. This can be employee-based, surface-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metric. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Energy consumption from nuclear sources was primarily derived from contractual information. When such information is not available, national nuclear percentages defined by the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) have been used. High climate impact sectors used to determine the energy intensity correspond to the categories C Manufacture C30.3.0 - Manufacture of air and spacecraft and related machinery, and C33.1.6 - Repair and maintenance of aircraft and spacecraft amongst those listed in NACE Sections A to H and Section L as defined in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288. As a result, the Company’s total turnover as disclosed in the financial statement is deemed to correspond to the net revenue amount from activities in high climate impact sectors. Climate change metrics Energy consumption and mix Unit 2024 Total Energy Consumption MWh 3,703,856 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 2,278,219 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products MWh 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products MWh 940,425 Fuel consumption from natural gas MWh 920,570 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources MWh 1,953 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources MWh 415,270 Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh 339,256 Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 1,086,381 Fuel consumption from renewable sources MWh 310,375 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources MWh 772,825 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy MWh 3,180 Percentage of energy consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 9.2% Percentage of renewable sources in total energy consumption % 29.3% Percentage of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 61.5% Non-renewable energy production MWh 286,605 Renewable energy production MWh 6,238 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors MWh 3,703,856 Total energy consumption form activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors MWh/ M€ 53.5 Purchased grid electricity and other energies (gas and other stationary fuels) for stationary sources, as per Company energy consumption related target ⚐ Mwh 2,597,029 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 181"
"Scope 2 GHG Emissions - Percentages of energy contracts Unit 2024 Percentage of regular energy contracts % 89.9% Percentage of regular energy contracts covered by bundled EACs % 31.7% Percentage of regular energy contracts covered by unbundled EACs % 8.7% Percentage of regular energy contracts not covered by EACs % 49.4% Percentage of physical direct-wire PPAs % 0.3% Percentage of sleeved PPAs % 4.6% Percentage of virtual PPAs % 0.0% Percentage of other renewable contracts % 5.3% Percentage of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of energy bundled with attributes about energy generation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions % 39.3% Percentage of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of unbundled energy attribute claims in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions % 6.2% 6.2.2.8 ​GHG Emissions (E1-6) Scope of reporting and methodology Reported data covers Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. Most data was reported by entities (see table below). While generally calculated based on measured quantities (energy consumed, refrigerant leakages), certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling adapted to each metrics. This can be employed-based, surface-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metric. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). In order to report on performance against its target, the Company also reports its total emissions Scopes 1 and 2 on a sub perimeter called “TCO scope” (see below). Top Company Objectives (“TCO”) Scope: TCO scope is material sub-perimeter of its own operations and operationally controlled entities (see cover rate in the table below) used for the short-term targets setting and performance monitoring, composed of sites deemed relevant to monitor the deployment of the Company’s Scopes 1 & 2 decarbonisation plan, as prioritised, and therefore also including the largest contributors to the concerned metrics. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% TCO scope, related to Scope 1&2 target % of the Company’s 2024 Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG Emissions 85% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”) Scope 1. Calculation includes contractual instruments (Biomethane Guarantees of Origines) as part of Scope 1 emissions, calculated based on biomethane emission factors instead of natural gas. This approach will be refined as further related guidance is issued by the GHG protocol. Emissions factors used are based on national references for the Companies’ core countries (France, Germany, Spain, UK) and on international references such as the IPCC for other countries. Key figure Unit 2024 Scope 1 Savings related to contractual instruments (Biomethane GoO) ktCO2eq 17 Scope 2. Contractual instruments used to calculate Scope 2 market based GHG emissions are -1- Power Purchase Agreements (direct wire or sleeved PPAs), -2- energy attributes certificates (e.g. REC, GoO, IREC, ETC), -3- other renewable electricity contracts. The share energy bundled with attributes or unbundled has been taken into account for all contractual instruments. All three above categories are used by the Company. So far energy attributes certificates have been the vast majority. Their respective shares in total use vary over time. Emission factors were determined following the hierarchy recommended by the GHG protocol, prioritising contractual instruments or supplier emission factors when available over national or residual emission factors (from IEA and AIB databases). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 182"
"Scopes 1 & 2 Biogenic emission factor. Scope 1 biogenic emissions have been calculated based on biogenic emissions factors available or estimated based on the available information. While the Company could estimate that overall Scope 2 biogenic emissions are non-significant - and reported as such (“NS”) in the table hereafter -, missing emission factors from suppliers did not enable to compute an accurate figure for 2024. Scope 3. The Company has performed a screening of all Scope 3 categories and concluded that category 11 “Use of Sold Product” is the only significant category to be disclosed. Scope 3 significant categories Unit Estimated share of Scope 3 category 11 “Use of Sold Product” in the Company’s total emissions % >95% Estimated share of non significant Scope 3 categories in the Company’s total emissions excluded from reporting % <5% Estimated share of “commercial aircraft family of products” in the Company’s Scope 3 category 11 emissions % >90% All other categories have been deemed non significant and are as such excluded from the Company’s disclosure. Scope 3 - Use of sold products. The main contribution of the Company’s value chain on climate change comes from the use of sold products and the Company reports in-use emissions of the products it delivers (Scope 3 – Use of sold products). This started in 2020 with the disclosure of emissions from commercial aircraft products, and was extended to other products from 2021, namely civil helicopters initially and military aircraft and helicopters in 2022, further complemented by satellites in 2023. The Company will continue to progressively extend the scope of reporting to other families of products, for which the calculation methodologies are still under development. Nevertheless, current results and advanced estimations have shown that the vast majority of the Scope 3 - Use of Sold Product impact of the Company’s products is due to the commercial aircraft family of products, and that this situation is unlikely to change once all the product families will have been assessed. Additional methodology information: ●​ The Company’s emission calculation methodology was developed by a team consisting of key personnel from the engineering and environment departments to be aligned with the guidance provided by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. ●​ The Company has used a number of assumptions based on internal and external information including assumptions based on publicly-available data. ●​ Scope 3 emissions are calculated based on product specific methodologies. As a result no part of the resulting emissions are calculated based on primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain partners For all products: ●​ The estimation includes CO2 emissions only. Emissions related to CH4 and N2O were excluded given the very low levels produced by modern aircraft engines. Emissions related to NOx were estimated and excluded given the uncertainty related to the NOx emission factors and the relatively low contribution of this emission stream. ●​ CO2 emission factors for kerosene are the ICAO internationally recognised lifecycle emission factor to be used for baseline fossil jet fuels (see table below). This factor represents a “well to wake” life cycle analysis to assess the overall greenhouse gas (GHG) impacts of a fuel including each stage of its production and use. Assumptions Unit CO2 emission factors for kerosene for fossil Jet-A /Jet-A1 kg CO2e per kg of fuel 3.846 Aircraft load factor % 82.5% For commercial aircraft: assumptions include the aircraft load factor, aircraft operational usage and average in-service lifetime. Primary data collected within the Company was also used, such as aircraft performance and configuration parameters. Emissions related to commercial aircraft engine start and taxiing have been included, however, emissions from the Auxiliary Power Units (APU) and ground handling equipment have been excluded. For the purpose of this calculation, the Company integrated into commercial aircraft Scope 3 the likely usage of SAF over the product lifetime, as per the IEA-SDS assumptions. Other operating conditions of the aircraft were considered to be static over the whole service life. In addition, the Company reports for reference an indicative figure based on a zero SAF usage. A330-200 deliveries destined to A330-MRTT conversion were excluded from the commercial aircraft perimeter and included in the military aircraft perimeter as part of the “other products” category. Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions and Total GHG Emissions are based on Scope 3 - Use of Sold Products IEA-SDS SAF uptake scenario for commercial aircraft. For other products: ●​ Helicopters: assumptions include activity data from Company’s customer services of helicopter operations such as flight hours per year and region where the helicopter is operated. Direct emissions and indirect emissions from jet fuel production are included over the product’s entire service life. The impact of SAF is not considered. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 183"
"●​ Military aircraft: flight hours and mission profiles vary significantly depending on conflicts and humanitarian crises. The estimation assumes the largest number of flight hours each aircraft has been designed for in its lifetime. The impact of SAF is not considered. ●​ Satellites: The estimation includes satellites delivered to external customers in 2024 and accounts for emissions linked to the production of the satellites’ propellant as well as emissions associated with the launch into space (launcher's propellant production and combustion). Emissions linked to the use of the satellites’ propellant are not included as they occur outside of the atmosphere and therefore do not contribute to global warming. Emissions linked to the reception, processing and usage of satellite data on the ground are not included. Scope 3 GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (as per SBTi-validated target) includes the emissions related to the upstream fuel production and considers the likely usage of SAF over the product lifetime, as per the IEA-SDS assumption. The deployment of SAF is an important aspect of the decarbonisation of the air transport sector, and is therefore an important aspect of the achievement of the Company’s near term target. There are a variety of SAF deployment scenarios and assumptions (e.g. IEA’s global energy and climate scenarios, Refuel EU’s mandate, ATAG “Waypoint 2050”) that may lead to different results in terms of decarbonisation. As a result, the Company is currently researching ways to track the actual uptake of SAF in the fleet (see section “– 6.2.2.2 Transition plan for climate mitigation (E1-1)”). Scope 3 - Biogenic emission factors. Emissions of biogenic carbon are calculated based on the CO2 emissions arising from the combustion of bio-derived SAF included in the “IEA-SDS SAF uptake” scope 3 metric below. The CO2 emission factor for the combustion of SAF is assumed to be identical as that of the combustion of fossil kerosene. GHG intensity. Net revenue used for calculation of GHG emissions intensity equals the Company’s total revenues as displayed in the financial statements. Performance Milestones and Target Years GHG emissions disaggregated by Scopes 1 and 2 and significant Scope 3 Unit Base Year 2015 2024 2025 % 2025 target vs. 2024 2030 % 2030 target vs. Base Year 2035 % 2035 target vs. Base year Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions including regulated emission trading schemes ktCO2eq 451 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes % 37% Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions ktCO2eq 318 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions ktCO2eq 163 Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based ktCO2eq 769 Gross market-based ktCO2eq 1,262 614 467 -63% Scope 1 + Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions on TCO scope ⚐ ktCO2eq 524 509 -3% Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ktCO2eq 474,691 cat.11 - Use of sold products ktCO2eq 474,691 ・ Commercial aircraft IEA-SDS SAF uptake ktCO2eq 466,354 ・ alt. Commercial aircraft - (""no SAF"" scenario) ktCO2eq 560,614 ・ Other products ktCO2eq 8,337 Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) ktCO2eq 475,460 Total GHG emissions (market-based) ktCO2eq 475,305 Biogenic CO2 emissions Scope 1 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq 85 Scope 2 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq NS Scope 3 Biogenic CO2 emissions ktCO2eq 75,392 Scope 3 Cat 11. GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (as per SBTi-validated target) gCO2/ pax.km 88.8 61.1 48.0 -46% Scope 3 Cat 11. GHG efficiency for delivered commercial aircraft (""no SAF"" scenario”) gCO2/ pax.km 73.4 Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 184"
"substitution projects and other Key Performance Indicators which are regularly reviewed by steering committees in charge of substances topics. Aerospace industry products often have long lifecycles and operate in extreme conditions. Finding and certifying suitable alternatives to regulated substances to meet stringent airworthiness standards is a lengthy process, requiring extensive research and development often exceeding regulatory timelines. Consequently, applications for continued use of regulated substances, under specific conditions, are frequently necessary until viable replacements are available. 6.2.3.2.4 ​ Metrics (E2-5) The Company manages substance-related IROs in line with the regulatory requirements and their provisions related to substance traceability, based on information on product composition received by the Company from its suppliers. These provisions generally include the communication of the presence of certain substances, often when above a specified concentration level (for example, presence of Substances of Very High Concern in an article above 0.1% weight by weight (w/w) as required by the Article 33 of the REACH regulation; Substances of Concern which are not Substances of Very High Concern under REACH are not subject to this requirement), or the communication of a range of concentration of some substances in a specific mixture via a Safety Data Sheet (for example, the Company may receive the information that a substance is present in a mixture in a concentration between 10 and 80%). The precise quantity (mass) of substances in a product is not made available to the Company, and the available data does not allow the Company to calculate the quantity of substances in products/articles and mixtures. As mentioned above, the Company is working to deploy digital means to facilitate the collection, management and use of substance related data from its suppliers as a way to enhance its reporting capability in the future and maintain its compliance with substance-related regulations. 6.2.3.3 ​Pollution of Air 6.2.3.3.1 ​ Policies (E2-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy, described under section “– 6.2.1 Policies”, outlines its environmental management and is designed to manage various environmental aspects, such as Volatile Organic Compounds (“VOC”) emissions. In the context of this Policy, the Company is committed to continually reducing its environmental footprint through its industrial operations by implementing innovative technologies and solutions, including to reduce air emissions. For further detail on the content of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). The Company is subject to pollution-related regulatory requirements, some of which being embedded into the permits granted by local authorities to its sites. In addition, the Company’s ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System notably applies the standard recommendations for pollution control audits, training, risk assessment and identification, implementation of risk prevention procedures (e.g. emergency plans, simulation exercises). For example, sites shall conduct an analysis of environmental aspects and impacts at least every three years, as well as each time a material change in operations occurs, also in connection with the Company’s ERM process. The Airbus Environmental Management System is intended to cover incidents avoidance and emergency situations. 6.2.3.3.2 ​ Actions and resources (E2-2) Monitoring The Company monitors Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions to identify the main emitters of VOC within its industrial processes. The VOC emissions are directly measured where required by regulation or calculated through a mass-balance approach. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. This action enables the Company to quantify the VOC emissions and focus actions on priority areas. Storage and handling of raw materials In order to prevent or reduce fugitive VOC emissions during storage and handling of solvent-containing materials, the Company applies various practices, including covering of containers in storage and minimisation of storage in production Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 189"
"areas. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Raw material management including substitution Where technically feasible, the Company reduces the solvent consumption and environmental impact of used raw material by deploying paints/coatings and adhesives with a lower VOC content (high solid systems) as well as water-based systems. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Cleaning techniques Where technically feasible, the Company implements several measures to reduce VOC emissions from cleaning processes. These measures include the use of pre-impregnated wipes in manual cleaning, the substitution of VOC-based cleaners with low-volatility or water-based cleaning agents, and the use of enclosed washing machines for tool cleaning. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. Coating processes The Company aims to minimise raw material consumption and the overall environmental impact of coating processes by employing advanced spraying techniques such as air-assisted airless spraying and electrostatically assisted spraying. The scope of these continuous actions includes the Company's own operations. These efforts fall under the ""avoid pollution"" and “reduce pollution” steps of the pollution mitigation hierarchy. These actions are ongoing and embedded in the Company’s operations. 6.2.3.3.3 ​ Targets (E2-3) The Company has defined the following voluntary target aligned with its environmental policy, that should also be put in perspective with the Airbus production ramp up over the 2015-2030 period, on its own operations and operationally controlled entities (see “– 6.2.3.3.4 Metrics (E2-4)”). Emissions target Pollution of Air Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs baseline VOC emissions in absolute terms tons 2030 1,498 0% increase 2015 1,498 1,230 -18% The methodologies and assumptions for setting this target are based on internal analysis of actionable levers (see section “– 6.2.3.3.2 Actions and resources (E2-2)”) and also take into account production ramp-up planning. While regulatory thresholds were taken into account in establishing this target, no specific additional direct relation to scientific evidence or stakeholder involvement was considered. The metrics for this target have not changed since its inception. 2024 VOC emission trend followed aircraft production. 2024 VOC emissions stood below the 2030 target while the trajectory towards the target integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.3.3.4 ​ Metrics (E2-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Only the Hamburg site exceeds the threshold specified in ESRS E2 for VOC reporting (as per Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006). In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter (VOC on Target perimeter). On this perimeter, most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling activity-based extrapolation modeling. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). The main VOC emissions sources derive from surface treatment, cleaning, painting and coating operations through the use of the following materials: Solvents: halogenated (TCE, MC), non-halogenated and ODS (Ozone Depleting Substance) solvents (HFCF 141b) excluding paints and coatings; Solvated paints and coatings: primers, wash primers, topcoats and specific coating (for structural & non-structural parts). When VOC emissions are not measured by the concerned entity, a computation is performed by the concerned entities and is mainly based on a mass-balance approach, therefore taking into account the quantity of VOC in above-mentioned consumed materials (excluding wasted products). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 190"
"Direct measurement has been prioritised on certain sites where measured data is regulatory required, while associated cost benefit ratio was deemed insufficient for other sites. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Emissions Metrics - Pollution of Air Unit 2024 VOC tons 155 VOC on Target perimeter ⚐ tons 1,230 6.2.3.4 ​Pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food The Company has identified that its environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities related to pollution of water and pollution of living organisms and food are found exclusively within the up- and downstream value chain as a potential impact of the kerosene production processes. An overview of all IROs related to pollution can be found in section “– 6.2.3.1 IROs Pollution”. While LCA leads to identifying such a potential impact, the Company has limited ability to influence the operations of oil & gas companies and does not have any relevant information. 6.2.4 ​ ESRS E3 - Water and marine resources 6.2.4.1 ​Water IROs The following IROs were identified for water: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-3 - Water Water: > Water consumption > Water withdrawals Risk There is a risk that the Company or its suppliers may fail to mitigate the potential impact of water stress - related to climate change - on water consumption, usage and withdrawal in their industrial operations, within a timely manner relative to the onset of such risks. This could lead to production disruptions, which could negatively affect financial performance. / Own Operations Upstream ESRS E-3 - Water Water - Habitat degradation: Impact See Pollution of water and living organisms and food resources in ESRS E2 Pollution The Company’s water usage is mostly linked to non-industrial uses, including sanitary, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, canteens and fire extinguishing. Around one third of the water withdrawn is used for industrial uses such as climate control of industrial facilities (e.g. clean rooms for satellite assembly, paint-shops), surface treatment, machining and non-destructive testing. Procuring the required water does not currently represent a material cost for the Company as overall withdrawn volumes are relatively limited, especially for its industrial operations. However, securing water availability to operate the industrial processes requiring water is critical for the Company to ensure business continuity. Environmental risks and opportunities are managed following the Company’s ERM system, as described in the section “– 6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”. This covers among other risks related to water accessibility in areas of high and extremely high water stress. Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 191"
"6.2.4.2 ​Policies (E3-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. A focus of the Environmental Policy is on water, where the Company aims to continually explore and implement innovative technologies and solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, including regarding water. While the policy covers water withdrawal reduction, it does not explicitly mention water management, water sourcing, water treatment or the reduction of water usage in areas at water risk. These aspects are nevertheless included in the Company’s management of water related aspects for its own operations and controlled entities perimeter. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the Environmental Policy in section “– 6.2.1. Policies”. 6.2.4.3 ​Actions and resources (E3-2) The actions listed below support the achievement of the related target, which applies to the Company’s own operations and operationally controlled entities. They have so far been implemented in priority on sites for which measured data is available, covering a large proportion of the concerned impact (see methodology in “- 6.2.4.5 Metrics (E3-4)). In addition, water related actions target in particular sites located in areas at water risk, including areas with high or extremely high water stress. Metering and monitoring The Company undertakes improvement of water metering and monitoring to better understand water usage and identify deviations and abnormalities. Notable implementations in 2024 include the deployment of digitised and automated real-time water withdrawal monitoring at Company’s sites in Spain and France. Leak management The Company strives to detect, repair and prevent water leakages in order to minimise unnecessary water withdrawal. This continuous initiative received particular focus in 2024 and has led to the identification and repair of several leaks in a number of the Company’s sites in France and the UK. Water reduction and reuse The Company develops water recycling and water reuse systems. For example, in 2024, Company sites have adapted processes and equipment to establish closed-loop systems where water is being reused, such as in the press cooling systems in Bremen, Germany. In addition, the Company aims to reduce its water usage by reviewing its industrial processes and equipment. 2024 examples include upgrade of cooling systems and non-destructive testing processes at locations such as Illescas, Spain and Nantes, France. Rainwater harvesting The Company implements rainwater harvesting in order to replace the use of drinking water in industrial and sanitary equipment. As of the end of 2024, this system has been deployed at several Company sites, including Airbus in Toulouse, France; Broughton, UK; and Airbus Helicopters in Paris-Le Bourget, France. Employee engagement The Company also acts on employee engagement in order to raise awareness on water management challenges. In 2024, this included deploying awareness campaigns, such as communications on the World Water Day via the Company’s intranet as well as onsite awareness-raising activities. Sites assessments In 2023, the Company undertook studies supported by external expertise across several Company sites to evaluate the water management maturity level of these sites and identify relevant opportunities to further reduce water withdrawal. Additionally, other sites have conducted self-assessments using the same methodology. In 2024, this approach was extended to additional sites Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 192"
"All actions are continuous efforts in the context of the 2030 target (see section “– 6.2.4.4. Targets (E3-3)” below), which are renewed annually, aiming to avoid and reduce the usage and withdrawal of water. All of these ongoing actions are embedded in the Company’s usual operations. 6.2.4.4 ​Targets (E3-3) The Company has set the following 2030 target (vs. 2015 baseline): -25% reduction in absolute water withdrawal volumes defined by the Company as the sum of purchased water, abstracted groundwater and surface water withdrawal whilst excluding collected rainwater, reclaimed water, brackish coastal water, and “non-contact” water used for geothermal energy generation or heating/cooling; this metric is referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI”. It applies to the Company's own operations and operationally controlled entities. This target aligns with the vision of the Company's Environmental Policy to continually improve manufacturing processes and site infrastructures to reduce water withdrawal. This target is voluntary. The target was defined in collaboration with impacted functions such as Facility Management, Environment, Health and Safety and Industrial Operations and was validated by the Airbus Industrial Environmental Roadmap cross-divisional Steering Committee. The target is informed by projected local water stress levels according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, version 4.0 (dated August 2023), using the Aqueduct 2030 ""pessimistic"" scenario (aligned with the Company scenario ""Disorderly mitigation – Warming exceeding 3°C"" which includes the data from IPCC SSP5 RCP8.5). To achieve this Company-wide target, the Company has cascaded site-specific targets, acknowledging that the criticality of water challenges is heavily influenced by local factors. These site-specific targets have been determined with relevant stakeholders at each site, based on local context including local water stress levels. Performance against target is monitored monthly, with a review and analysis of trends or significant changes in performance towards achieving the 2030 target on Company level (update EOY). The previous target focused on purchased water only; the target scope has now been expanded to the scope described above. The inclusion of new entities due to the scope extension has led to an update of the baseline value. The primary focus of this target is the reduction of water withdrawal, which supports the reduction of water consumption. Water target Unit Target year Target value % vs baseline Baseline year Baseline value 2024 value % 2024 vs Baseline Water withdrawal-related KPI m3 2030 3,225,016 -25% 2015 4,300,021 3,510,180 -18% Water withdrawal (as per target KPI) slightly reduced in 2024 supported by the outcomes of actions described above (see “- 6.2.4.3 Actions and resources (E3-2)”), in a production growth context. This supports the trajectory towards the 2030 target, that integrates expected upcoming aircraft production ramp-up. 6.2.4.5 ​Metrics (E3-4) Scope of reporting and methodology: Reported data covers Company’s own operations. In addition and to the extent the Company related target applies to its own operations and operationally controlled entities, it reports a second figure on this extended perimeter. Most data was reported by entities (see table below): while generally measured or communicated by water suppliers, certain specific information from sites may be estimated based on past performance when not available. Information related to the rest of the consolidation perimeter was estimated, following a documented methodology, which is based on modelling: employed-based, activity-based extrapolation as deemed relevant for the concerned metrics. By exception to the consolidation perimeter described above, some small non-controlled entities have been included in the reported figures due to their co-location with consolidated entities (see table below). Water consumption is defined as the difference between water withdrawal volumes and water discharge volumes. All volumes of water withdrawal per source and volumes of water discharges by destination are reported by each entity. They can be either obtained from direct measurements (metering or invoice) or estimated (see table below). When water discharge is not measured or partially measured, the discharge volumes can be estimated from the withdrawal volumes depending on the type of usage on site (industrial process, cooling, fire protection, sanitary use...). Water risk and water stress indicators are obtained for each site based on the site’s geographical location, using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 “baseline” data, World Resources Institute as follows: areas of high water stress: the Aqueduct “Water stress” indicator is used; sites in ""high"" and ""extremely high"" water stress locations are considered; areas at water risk: the Aqueduct “Overall water risk” indicator is used; sites in Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 193"
"""high"" and ""extremely high"" water risk locations are considered. Entities with less than 100 employees were considered at country level. Reporting scope Unit 2024 Data reported by entities % of the Company’s employees * 96% Data estimated % of the Company’s employees * 4% Non-controlled entities included in the reported figures due to their co-location % of the Company’s employees * 0.4% * includes Active Workforce only (for definition see section “– 6.3.2.6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees (S1-6)”). Source of data Unit 2024 Total water withdrawal for which data is measured % 93% Total water withdrawal for which data is estimated % 7% In addition to CRSD defined metrics, the Company reports an additional subtotal corresponding to its water related target and referred to as “water withdrawal-related KPI” (see definition in section “– 6.2.4.4 Targets (E3-3)”). Water Metrics Unit 2024 Total water consumption m3 595,418 ・ Total water consumption in areas of high water stress m3 256,355 ・ Total water consumption in areas at water risk m3 140,989 Total water withdrawal m3 3,499,794 Water intensity m3/M€ 8.6 Additional information linked to the Company’s water performance monitoring Total water withdrawal-related KPI (own operations and operationally controlled entities) ⚐ m3 3,510,180 6.2.5 ​ ESRS E4 - Biodiversity and ecosystems 6.2.5.1 ​Biodiversity and ecosystems IROs The following IROs were identified for biodiversity: ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss, Impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact The air transport sector's use of aircraft in operation leads to GHG emissions that may indirectly impact biodiversity. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream ESRS E-4 Biodiversity Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss: > Pollution Potential negative impact Production of aviation fuel in the downstream value chain may lead to water pollution, which may contribute to biodiversity loss if adequate mitigation measures are not used. Short- term, mid-term, long-term Downstream , upstream The biodiversity-related IROs are an indirect effect of the Company's climate change (section “– 6.2.2.1 Climate change IROs”) and pollution (section “– 6.3.2.1 Pollution IROs”) related IROs. 6.2.5.2 ​Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (E4-1) No specific resilience of strategy and business model to biodiversity risks was conducted, in line with the non-identification of any material related risk (see “6.1.1.4.1 IRO-1: Description of the processes to identify and assess material IROs”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 194"
"6.2.5.3 ​Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (SBM-3) The Company has not identified any sites as having a material negative impact on biodiversity. To date, the Company has not identified any material negative impacts with regards to soil sealing, land degradation and desertification, nor threatened species. 6.2.5.4 ​Policies (E4-2) The Company has not adopted a policy specifically on biodiversity. The Environmental Policy (see section “– 6.2.1. Policies”) applies to topics related to the biodiversity IROs. In addition, while the Company’s sites ISO 14001 certification embeds biodiversity considerations, processes and actions supporting the local management of biodiversity are also defined to facilitate compliance to local applicable regulatory requirements. 6.2.5.5 ​Actions and resources (E4-3) The Company has not defined actions on biodiversity, as the actions implemented to address climate change topics are deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.5 Actions and resources (E1-3)”. 6.2.5.6 ​Targets and metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-4) The Company has not defined targets nor metrics on biodiversity, as the target and metrics to address climate change mitigation is deemed to simultaneously address biodiversity IRO. For more information, please refer to section “– 6.2.2.6 Targets (E1-4)”. 6.2.6 ​ ESRS E5 - Resource use and circular economy While aerospace represents a small fraction of the global volumes for most materials, it is among the main users for some highly specialised materials (e.g. titanium). Key Figure Unit Proportion of Company’s aluminium consumption in the global market % About 0.1% The use of these materials, and the impacts associated with their production or end-of-life, are justified by their contribution to the efficiency of the end product, as they enable lighter structures and more efficient design. As the major portion of a typical aircraft’s life cycle impact comes from its operational use phase, using lighter materials (which are sometimes more impactful in their production processes) is particularly effective in regards to achieving significant reductions in energy consumption and emissions overall. Key figure Unit Typical aircraft’s GHG life cycle impact coming from its operational use phase % 90% Product weight optimisation is largely linked to product performance in terms of range and fuel consumption, and therefore has a benefit for customers. Optimising the use of such high-value materials is directly linked to the Company’s competitiveness, while securing their supply, as they become scarcer, is necessary to ensure business continuity. Accordingly, the Company's circularity approach, that includes in-sourcing and waste management dimensions, relies on several complementary levers that include and can be illustrated as follows: ●​ “Avoid” or material use optimisation - Weight reduction through material use optimisation has always been a priority in aerospace, as this is directly linked to aircraft performance. More optimised design and manufacturing processes for metallic and composite components can improve the buy-to-fly ratios, as well as reduce weight, material consumption, energy consumption and production costs. For instance, forming technology has led to an aluminium material reduction of 80% for some parts compared to machining from a plate. ●​ “Reduce” industrial waste - The Company focuses on the waste generated by its sites in the manufacturing process, which is embedded in a waste target. A dedicated multi-functional team with skills from across the Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 195"
"organisation such as Engineering, Information Management, Procurement, Industrial Operations and Facility Management is actively working on a waste reduction roadmap. ●​ “Reduce” - increase the lifespan of components - A large part of the Company's aircraft products' components last for the aircraft service lifetime, which exceeds 20 years on average. Some components, called life-limited parts (“LLPs”), have a lifetime which is limited for the purposes of airworthiness requirements and need to be replaced at specific intervals based on the aircraft age and usage. ●​ “Repairability - reuse - second life” - With regards to LLPs, easy replacement and availability of parts over the whole programme lifetime are a priority. The Company’s products are maintained and repaired by a number of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MROs) companies and spare parts providers worldwide. The Company's after-sale activities include the sale of spare parts and the provision of maintenance, repair and overhaul services. ●​ “Recycling” - Waste generated by the Company’s industrial processes often includes high-value materials, so optimising their circularity responds to both environmental and economic objectives. The Company is working on specific initiatives, such as specific loop creation for titanium (see waste related actions) 6.2.6.1 ​Resource Use and Circular Economy IROs The following IROs were identified for resource use and circular economy : ESRS (sub-)topic Impact, risk or opportunity Description Time horizon Location in the value chain ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Actual negative impact The aviation sector's use of titanium in the production of aircraft components represents a relatively high percentage of the resource's global stock and may affect global resource availability. Short-term, mid-term, long-term Own Operations, Upstream, Downstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Resource inflow, including resource use Risk The risk of titanium supply disruption could have an impact on aircraft production and deliveries, which could affect financial performance. / Own operations, Upstream ESRS E-5 - Circular Economy Waste Opportunity An opportunity to reduce waste may arise from optimising the recovery of industrial waste, such as high-value metallic scraps. This could contribute to more efficient industrial processes and to further secure supply and production, which could contribute to financial performance. / Own operations 6.2.6.2 ​Policies (E5-1) The Airbus Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System, described under section “– 6.2.1. Policies”, emphasises the Company's commitment to sustainable practices in its operations. The Airbus Environmental Policy outlines the Company’s commitment to reducing environmental impact during production and throughout the product life cycle, eco-design, circularity, and end-of-life considerations (including waste management in its own industrial operations). The Policy focuses on minimising resource depletion (including virgin resources) and the increased use of secondary materials to deliver innovative products and services, although it does not explicitly mention transitioning away from use of virgin resources nor sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources. All considerations for optimising material use shall also, under no circumstance, be detrimental to product safety and shall meet all technical requirements from stringent certification standards. The Airbus Environmental Policy also emphasises the importance of transitioning from a linear economy to a circular one, diverting waste from landfills and avoiding the depletion of natural resources. The policy does not explicitly mention waste hierarchy nor cover the prioritisation of avoidance. The Company's main industrial waste is composed of metallic waste, general waste, chemical waste and packaging waste. Waste from industrial activities represents about three quarters of the total waste generated by the Company’s sites, the remaining portion being waste generated in offices and canteens. For further detail on the key contents of the Environmental Policy, its scope, accountability, relevant third party standards and initiatives as well as the availability to and stakeholders and the considerations of their interests, please refer to the transversal section on Environmental Policy (section “– 6.2.1 Policies”). Airbus SE/ Report of the Board of Directors 2024 196"
