"Environmental information (ESRS E1–E5) The following sections cover Zalando’s management practices and performances related to climate change, pollution, water and resource use and circular economy matters. Highsnobiety, due to its distinct business model as a media and curated retail platform, is not covered under the actions and targets further described in the sections below. However, it remains aligned with Zalando’s overall SDI ambition and policies. For more information on Highsnobiety, please refer to our group segments in the section 2.1.2 Group structure of the combined management report. Logistics and non-logistics sites that are under construction throughout the financial year are also omitted from our environmental considerations and calculations. ESRS E1 Climate change Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes For information on how climate-related considerations are factored into the remuneration of members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies, please refer to Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes in section 2.8.1 General information. Material IROs and their interaction with strategy and business model — resilience analysis and climate scenario planning The resilience analysis conducted in June 2022 and updated in 2024 is based on our climate scenario planning, covering both direct and indirect emissions from our own operations (scope 1 and 2) and indirect emissions along the upstream and downstream value chain (scope 3). Risks that met the financial materiality thresholds as a result of the resilience analysis were further embedded into our risk management process. Our full value chain has been included in this analysis: upstream, including design, raw material production, manufacturing processes; own operations, including procurement and buying plus fulfilment; downstream, including transport, product use and end-of-life. The analysis considers material physical risks, including hazards related to temperature, water, wind and soil. Additionally, potential policy and legal developments, technology shifts, market changes and reputational events were assessed to evaluate our exposure to transition risks. For more information, please refer to Impacts, risks and opportunities in section 2.8.1 General information. We assessed the climate resilience of our business by looking at climate-related transition and physical risks and opportunities in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The analysis took into account factors such as the availability of new technologies, regulatory developments, macroeconomic trends, customer expectations and the broader business environment, including competitor actions. We used two different global GHG emissions pathways for the scenario analysis. In particular, we considered the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) AR5 Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) 2.6 scenario, which assumes an increase in global temperatures to 1.5°C, and the AR5 IPCC RCP 8.5 scenario, with an increase of 4°C. The scenarios consider temperature, precipitation and the number of hot days. These scenarios were adapted to local conditions, and potential impacts on retail companies were assessed across three time frames: by 2025 (short-term), by 2030 (medium-term) and by 1 Company 2 Combined management report 3 Consolidated financial statements 4 Other information and service 201 Zalando SE ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
"ESRS E2 Pollution Identification and assessment of material pollution-related IROs We have identified five significant environmental impacts and associated human health concerns related to pollution. These impacts are as follows: — Water pollution: arising from the material processing phase, particularly during dyeing, and involving the use of water and chemicals. — Microplastic release: synthetic fibres contribute to the release of microplastics during washing cycles, posing risks to aquatic ecosystems and human health. — Air pollution: caused by fragmented value chains that depend on long-distance transportation, leading to increased emissions. — Soil pollution: resulting from the use of pesticides and fertilisers in the conventional farming of natural fibres, which contaminate both soil and water sources. — Chemical pollution: processes such as bleaching, printing and finishing often involve harmful chemicals that, if not properly managed, can be released into the environment. The material environmental impacts resulting from the DMA occur during the production and distribution stages, including raw material extraction, textile production and transportation. These stages are outside our direct operations. Within our own operations, emissions are comparatively non-significant. For example, non-carbon emissions to air of our fulfilment centres are significantly lower than the emissions generated by the manufacturing processes. Similarly, microplastics potentially generated from our operations, if present, are minimal compared to the microplastics generated during the use phase of a fashion product over its life span. We did not screen site locations for pollution-related IROs, as none of the sites under our operation and control have emission sources that require reporting according to Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register, E-PRTR Regulation). Affected communities along the value chain were not directly consulted during the DMA. For further information on stakeholder engagement in our DMA, please refer to Impacts, risks and opportunities in section 2.8.1 General information. For these reasons, our disclosures on pollution focus on our policies and actions related to chemical management. Accordingly, we have not yet established any group-wide policies, actions or targets in relation to pollution of air, water, soil and microplastics in line with the ESRS. Reporting on pollution metrics (disclosure requirements ESRS E2-4 and E2-5) for our own operations is not included as it is considered not material to Zalando according to our DMA. Policies related to pollution To manage upstream and downstream impacts and comply with regulations, we have developed a chemical management system. This includes the Restricted Substances List (RSL) to determine chemical requirements and limits for harmful substances in products. For private labels, the Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) restricts chemicals in production, aligned with Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals standards. For more information on our chemical management system and the processes for remediating negative impacts, please refer to ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users: personal safety in section 2.8.3. Social information. 1 Company 2 Combined management report 3 Consolidated financial statements 4 Other information and service 217 Zalando SE ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
"Actions and resources related to pollution At Zalando, we monitor the effectiveness of our MRSL and RSL through a risk-based due diligence programme. Our Quality Assurance team conducts regular testing of products and materials throughout the production cycle, from raw materials to finished goods, utilising accredited third-party laboratories. For more information on our quality checks on products and materials, please refer to ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users - Actions related to personal safety in section 2.8.3. Social information. Targets related to pollution We aim to ensure alignment with the existing regulatory framework. Our pollution-related commitments focus on preventing harmful substances in products by adhering to regulatory thresholds. For more information, please refer to ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users - Targets related to personal safety in section 2.8.3. Social information. ESRS E3 Water resources Identification and assessment of material water-related IROs Our business depends on continued access to water, and we are already witnessing the effects of water scarcity and water quality risks in our activities. Previously assessed climate- related risks and opportunities described in the Resilience analysis and climate scenario planning in section ESRS E1 Climate change have informed our DMA. Our climate resilience analysis contributes to identifying water-related risks linked to the increasing occurrence of extreme weather events, such as flooding or droughts, along our value chain and in our own operations. Key risks carried into our DMA include reputational risks from water consumption in our value chain, business continuity risks from water scarcity affecting raw material availability and human health impacts from reduced water security. Opportunities centre on the potential to enable collective action on water stewardship. No IROs related to marine resources were identified as our business does not rely on marine resources. We have not screened our assets and activities to identify the IROs. However, in 2024 we undertook an assessment of water risk areas related to our own operations. This assessment specifically focuses on our direct impact on water consumption in these water risk regions, with further details provided in the following section. In 2024, we conducted a water risk assessment for our private labels for major Tier 2 (wet processing) facilities, and going forward we aim to pay particular attention to our private labels’ water impact, particularly in high water stress areas. Direct consultations with affected communities have not been conducted. Policies related to water We established our water management policy in 2024, reflecting our ambition to addressing the critical water challenges associated with our own operations and value chain. This policy sets the foundation for managing water consumption and pollution and for managing water- related risks. We are dedicated to continuously expanding and refining our water management approach in the future in alignment with industry best practices and stakeholder expectations. Water management is critical for the resilience of our business operations and value chain. The aim of our water management policy is to minimise our water consumption and water pollution, comply with regulatory requirements and ensure the responsible use of water resources across our own operations and value chain. 1 Company 2 Combined management report 3 Consolidated financial statements 4 Other information and service 218 Zalando SE ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
"Change in water stored: This represents the year-on-year difference in the volume of water stored at our logistics and non-logistics facilities. Since 2024 is the first year of measurement, the first available value will be reported in the 2025 financial year. Water intensity: The water intensity ratio is calculated by dividing the total water consumption for our own operations by the net revenue of Zalando. Our water intensity is 2.2 m 3/m EUR. This relatively low value for the water intensity metric reflects the limited water consumption in our direct operations. Within our own operations, we do not engage in water-intensive activities as our core processes, e.g. warehousing, office and showrooms, have a relatively low water usage. We acknowledge that our more significant water impacts lie within our upstream value chain, particularly in raw material extraction, product manufacturing, and downstream activities related to product use. ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy Identification and assessment of material resource use and circular economy-related IROs To identify the environmental impact potential related to the circular economy, we conducted life cycle assessments (LCAs) in 2022 and updated them in 2024 during the DMA. They encompassed different circular business models such as pre-owned, take-back, care and repair, and reusable packaging. The LCA results highlighted that raw material extraction and processing were the most significant environmental impact areas of a product’s life cycle. These outcomes informed our DMA, completed in 2024, and our new circularity policy. Regarding the use of materials, we depend heavily on cotton, polyester and leather as key materials for the majority of products offered by our private label business and brand partners. By embedding more sustainable practices across our value chain — from product sourcing and design to logistics and recommerce — we ensure that we remain resilient in the face of emerging environmental challenges, while contributing to the creation of long-term value for our stakeholders. We have outlined the specific business units responsible for managing IROs related to our resource use and circular economy initiatives below. The SDI team includes resources dedicated to the oversight of the comprehensive assessment of IROs related to resource use and the circular economy. This team sets our strategic direction for transitioning to a circular economy by developing strategic initiatives and partnerships that accelerate circular innovation. Policies related to resource use and circular economy Our circularity policy provides an overarching strategic framework for driving progress in the circular economy to manage our material IROs. The policy focuses on three foundational pillars: i) Circular products, ii) Circular business models and iii) End-of-life, broadly covering our business activities. We are committed to fostering innovation by continuing our efforts to support and scale up initiatives, building on strategic investments in textile-to-textile recyclers to date. For further information on our approach to innovation, please refer to Entity-specific information: Innovation and partnerships in section 2.8.4 Governance information. 1 Company 2 Combined management report 3 Consolidated financial statements 4 Other information and service 222 Zalando SE ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
