"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 132 Responsibility for compliance with the relevant processes lies with Continental’s purchasing and supply chain management functions, which are supported by internal risk management. The processes are monitored as part of general business supervision at various or- ganizational levels. Management of the climate-related aspects of supply chain resili- ence and transition is integrated into the general processes for managing supply chain resilience. These processes are handled closely to the operational business and are integrated into the gen- eral practices regarding purchasing, supply chain management and risk management on different levels of the organization. Various as- pects are considered during the procurement process, including strategic factors such as security of supply in the event of extreme weather events, which could be exacerbated by climate change. Further information on the relevant processes can be found in the Report on risks and opportunities section of the management report. The processes are guided by a set of general rules for the related functions on different levels of the organization. The management approach is not based on a specific external set of rules. Close dialogue with customers and suppliers is a key element of the management approach. As the processes are implemented close to operational business, communication with internal stakeholders takes place mainly within the respective businesses. The primary form of external communication is close dialogue with customers and suppliers."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 133 Targets Related to Climate Change Following its sustainability ambition, Continental has set a public sus- tainability target (PST) related to climate change that aims at the re- duction of Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to an absolute value of 0.5 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent (million tCO2e) by 2035. The interim target for 2030 is to reduce Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to 0.7 million tCO2e. Both the main and the interim target are set as absolute values and measured in millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalents (million tCO2e). The formalized target commitment to reduce Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions is a key element of the corresponding management approach to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and the subsequent key actions. The transition towards and, in the end, the achievement of the target allows Continental to mitigate negative im- pacts and risks connected to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The target covers the combined Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. In view of the relatively low amount of remaining mar- ket-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (see subsection Key actions for tar- get achievement), the reduction of Scope 1 GHG emissions is a partic- ular focus and will contribute the major share to the GHG emissions reductions. The target value was defined in alignment with the guid- ance of the GHG Protocol on calculating Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions and includes the greenhouse gases de- scribed in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Consequently, the greenhouse gases cov- ered by the target and considered in the metrics are consistent with the limits of the greenhouse gas inventory. The scope of the main and interim targets extends to the Continental Group’s own operations. The original target trajectory was developed using the base year 2019. The originally publicly reported baseline value amounted to 3.2 million tCO2e for Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The chosen base year is representative in terms of external factors af- fecting the energy consumption and hence, GHG emissions. Due to a relevant change to the company structure in 2021 as well as the in- troduction of the market-based approach for the reporting of Scope 2 GHG emissions, a comparable reference value for the base year 2019 was re-modeled ex-post, and is estimated to around 2.8 million tCO2e. Continental points out that there are uncertainties connected to the data model. In 2024, by decision of the Sustainabil- ity Steering Committee, the target was reconfirmed without changes to the target value, target pathway or target year. The baseline values for the reconfirmed target can be seen in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” The metric com- plies with the ESRS requirements for the calculation of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Continental is of the opinion that the set Scope 1 and Scope 2 target is based on scientific evidence. It should be noted that relevant uncer- tainty remains regarding the breakdown of the global reduction path- way in line with the 1.5°C scenario down to the company level. Greater uncertainties are also associated with the allocation of the CO2 budgets to the various industrial sectors and the extent to which of so-called negative emissions (CO2 removals) can be used if the 1.5°C path is exceeded to a limited extent. Continental’s climate target was reviewed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2020, using the original base year 2019 as a benchmark. A re-validation by the SBTi did not take place. Based on the Continental’s ambition to achieve carbon neutrality in own operations by 2040 at the latest and on the applied methodology, linear derivations of the required emis- sions values for the year 2030 were validated and confirmed as being compliant with the Paris Agreement. Considering the modeled refer- ence value and the updated pathway, Continental views its emissions reduction target to be still in line with the level of ambition of the origi- nal reduction pathway. The target setting followed the methodology of an absolute reduction as described by SBTi in the framework “Foundations of Science-based Target Setting (Version 1.0)”, including the defined underlying climate and policy scenarios. The derivation was based on a cross-sector emissions pathway. No anticipated external developments and their impact on green- house gas emissions were explicitly considered when setting the tar- get. Significant changes to Continental’s company structure, product portfolio or production volumes might lead to the adjustment of the target values. In 2024, no changes were made to the target values. When setting the target, Continental considered the interests of differ- ent stakeholders (such as customers, authorities), e.g. by applying the SBTi methodology."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 134 To reach the target level of GHG emissions, Continental has identified two primary decarbonization levers. › Continued purchase of green electricity: Continental purchases electricity exclusively from renewable energy sources. Various contractual instruments are used for this purpose, which are listed in the corresponding metrics. Continuation of this approach allows the avoidance of market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions from electricity consumption. › Technological transformation: This lever is closely linked to the operational processes and is formalized in the technology trans- formation roadmaps of the individual group sectors. It consists primarily of the sub-levers such as the phase-out of coal, the gradual phase-out of other fossil fuels, the switch to biofuels and biomass as well as increased electrification of production pro- cesses that were previously run on fossil fuels. According to Continental’s assessment, the targeted GHG reductions will be fully, i.e. to 100 %, achieved through combination of the two aforementioned decarbonization levers. The two levers are inextrica- bly linked, and both have a simultaneous effect on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Any further breakdown of the contributions into Scope 1 and Scope 2 is therefore not meaningful. Continental sees the increase in energy efficiency and the expansion of capacities for self-generation of electricity from renewable sources primarily not as direct, but as supporting levers for target achieve- ment. Continental is of the opinion that the implementation of these levers with the speed required to achieve the target is in line with the 1.5°C pathway as set out in the original target setting. The operationalization of these decarbonization levers through the key actions is reflected in the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040, with which Continental is creating a framework for target achievement. Continental’s progress regarding the set emissions reduction target can be derived from the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Progress is measured using the defined metric, which was fully adapted to the ESRS requirements in 2024. In 2024, there were no significant changes to the business model and business activities that could potentially affect the target achievement. In Continental’s opin- ion, progress towards achieving the target by 2024 is in line with the original plans."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 135 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has defined concrete key actions to achieve its Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction target set for 2035 and to further foster the transition to carbon neutrality. Corresponding decarbonization measures are embedded in the op- erational activities and are gradually being developed and imple- mented by the individual legal entities. The decentralized approach pursued leads to a large number of measures that are completed through specific projects with individual completion timelines rang- ing from short-term to long-term. Continental’s climate change mitigation measures cover all types of activities in own operations. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 introduced in 2021 is the in- ternal set of rules for determining the key actions required to achieve the emissions reduction target. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 focuses on the most im- portant levers (see subsection Targets related to climate change) which are further operationalized through concrete actions. Continued purchase of green electricity Continental purchases electricity solely from renewable energy sources. In doing so, Continental makes use of green electricity con- tracts, power purchase agreements and other contractual instru- ments. For volumes of purchased electricity that are not covered by contractual instruments, Continental purchases energy attribute cer- tificates that comply with the specified quality criteria. This key ac- tion is implemented by the respective legal entities in close coopera- tion with the central purchasing and environmental departments who ensure a holistic approach and full coverage of the externally purchased electricity volumes through corresponding instruments. Technological transformation Technological transformation takes place within the responsible le- gal entities supported by central functions (e.g. operations or infra- structure). As part of group sector-specific roadmap implementa- tion programs, suitable concrete measures for the respective loca- tions and production processes, as well as the sequence of their im- plementation at location level are analyzed and decided upon. At the tire plant in Lousado, Portugal, for example, an electric boiler was put into operation in 2024 to generate steam required for the production processes. Gas, which was previously used as an energy source for steam generation, was replaced by green electricity. Similar projects regarding the levers identified for target achieve- ment are implemented at various locations if this is technically and economically feasible. Selection of the projects is part of the gen- eral investment process applying generally applicable criteria for decision-making as well as the allocation of capital. The investment budget is determined as part of financial planning. In the event of a positive investment decision, the necessary financial resources are thus made available for the project. The metrics for the achieved and expected GHG emissions reduc- tions as a result of the implementation of such projects are set out in the tables below. Achieved GHG reduction 2024 Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction achieved, in million tCO2e 0.217 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as the difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the base year of the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 (2021) and the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Expected GHG reduction 2024 Expected Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction, in million tCO2e 0.333 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year and the target value for Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions in 2035 (see subsection Targets related to climate change). - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 136 Capital expenditures and operating expenditures for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change OpEx for key actions 2024 OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 5 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Operating expenditures (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Planned OpEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 28 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Operating expenditures (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets related climate change are considered. CapEx for key actions 2024 CapEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Investments (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Planned CapEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned CapEx key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 13 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Investments (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Interrelation CapEx and OpEx Information on capital expenditures (CapEx) can be found in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The infor- mation refers to capital expenditure in the intangible assets (Note 13), property, plant and equipment (Note 14), leases (Note 15) and investment property (Note 16) presented in the notes to the con- solidated financial statements. Continental does not report any taxonomy-aligned economic activi- ties and consequently no capital expenditure plan in accordance with European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. The CapEx for key actions to implement the targets in connection with climate change mitigation mainly fall under taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure. Operating expenditure in accordance with the Commission Dele- gated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 relate to the total of mainte- nance costs, building refurbishment measures and research and development costs. The key actions for implementing the targets related to climate change are defined differently."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 124 Proportion of capital expenditure for products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering 2024 Financial year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm) Economic activities Code1 CapEx Propor- tion of CapEx 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy- aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) turnover, 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitio- nal acti- vity € millions % EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1.) 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which enabling 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which transitional 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies CCM 3.6 665 30.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 34.3 % Manufacture of automotive and mobility components CCM 3.18 1,222 55.4 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 53.5 % Manufacture of rail constituents CCM 3.19 4 0.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.1 %. CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2.) 1,892 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 87.9 % A. CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1.+A.2.) 1,892 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 87.9 % B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B) 313 14.2 % TOTAL (A + B) 2,204 100.0 % The tables listed here are the “templates for KPIs of non-financial undertakings” as required by Annex V of Delegated Regulation 2023/2486 of the EU Commission of June 27, 2023. For the sake of simplicity, Continental uses the following terms synonymously outside of these tables: “economic activities” and “business activities”, “environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)” and “Taxonomy-aligned economic activities”, “Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)” and “Taxonomy-eligible economic activities”. 1 The code constitutes the abbreviation of the relevant objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution, as well as the section number of the activity in the relevant annex covering the objective, i.e. here: climate change mitigation (CCM). 2 EL: Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 125 Proportion of operating expenditure for products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering 2024 Financial year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm) Economic activities Code1 OpEx Propor- tion of OpEx 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy- aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) turnover, 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitio- nal acti- vity € millions % EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 EL; N/EL2 Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1.) 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which enabling 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % of which transitional 0 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies CCM 3.6 1,203 30.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 19.6 % Manufacture of automotive and mobility components CCM 3.18 2,211 55.4 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 70.8 %. Manufacture of rail constituents CCM 3.19 8 0.2 % EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.1 %. OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2.) 3,421 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 90.5 % A. OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1.+A.2.) 3,421 85.8 % 100.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 90.5 % B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B) 566 14.2 % TOTAL (A + B) 3,987 100.0 % The tables listed here are the “templates for KPIs of non-financial undertakings” as required by Annex V of Delegated Regulation 2023/2486 of the EU Commission of June 27, 2023. For the sake of simplicity, Continental uses the following terms synonymously outside of these tables: “economic activities” and “business activities”, “environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)” and “Taxonomy-aligned economic activities”, “Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)” and “Taxonomy-eligible economic activities”. 1 The code constitutes the abbreviation of the relevant objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution, as well as the section number of the activity in the relevant annex covering the objective, i.e. here: climate change mitigation (CCM). 2 EL: Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 126 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Climate Change Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative and positive impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in relation to climate change. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management ap- proaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate manage- ment approaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is re- quired. As positive impacts as well as opportunities are strength- ened by Continental’s management approaches, the descriptions are presented from a net perspective which, for methodical rea- sons, considers the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Risks 6, 7 and 9 represent climate-related physical risks. The re- maining identified risks are transition risks. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions › Continental has moderate Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emis- sions in own operations which contribute to global climate change and are therefore considered relevant for corporate re- sponsibility. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 2) › Continental considers the negative impacts of its energy con- sumption to be limited. Taking into account the share of fossil fuels in energy consumption, it is considered relevant for the in- formation needs of users of sustainability reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 5) › Continental operates in industries and certain markets where fast- increasing regulatory requirements related to specific aspects of climate change mitigation could lead to a significant devaluation of real estate assets in specific businesses, especially in the me- dium-term, if not managed adequately and preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 10) › Continental operates in regions and industries where a moderate increase in investment and operating costs related to climate change mitigation (e.g. transformation of production sites) or reg- ulatory requirements (e.g. trading schemes) can be expected es- pecially in the medium-term. This risk is considered relevant for the information needs of users of sustainability reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 12) › Continental operates in regions and industries where, in the un- likely event of regulation allowing no or only limited overshoot of a 1.5°C temperature increase, a significant increase in investment and operating costs related to climate change mitigation can be expected especially in the medium-term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 13) Scope 3, portfolio resilience and transition › Continental has significant Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions re- lated to the so-called CO2 backpack which especially includes the purchased goods and services as well as the disposal of products at the end of the life cycle. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 1) › Continental has substantive direct and indirect Scope 3 green- house gas emissions especially from the use phase of its prod- ucts. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 3) › Continental develops and manufactures components and sys- tems for zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles and low-carbon industries and thus presumably has to some extend positive impacts on the transition of markets to carbon neutrality which are considered to be relevant for further expansion. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 4) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because of climate change-related regula- tory requirements and market trends (e.g. gradual shift away from combustion engines or phase-out of fossil fuels). Given the broad- ness of Continental's portfolio, some product segments and the business with specific customer groups might face transforma- tional challenges and the speed of change could exceed the po- tential speed of adaptation. This can, if not managed adequately, lead to significant loss in sales in the respective businesses, espe- cially in the long run. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 8) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets in which, in the un- likely event of regulation allowing no or only limited overshoot of a 1.5°C temperature increase, would result in extreme transfor- mation (e.g. abrupt phase-out of combustion engines and fossil fuels). Given the broadness of Continental's portfolio, most product Climate Change (ESRS E1)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 127 › segments and the business with most customer groups would face extreme transformational challenges and the speed of change would exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, potentially lead to a critical loss in sales in the respective businesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 15) › Continental's product portfolio serves markets which are also transforming considerably because of climate change mitigation- related regulatory and market trends (e.g. zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles). This could increase demand for certain businesses of Continental. If Continental can utilize these trends effectively, spe- cific businesses (e.g. dealing with brakes, high performance tires and hydrogen) can profit directly or indirectly from significant growth opportunities or even new business areas/models in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 16) Climate change adaptation › Continental operates in regions and industries where a significant increase in investment and operating costs related to climate change adaptation could be expected, particularly in the long term, considering physical climate change, especially in terms of temperature increases and the associated need for cooling. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 9) › Continental is present in regions and at locations where a risk of limited devaluation of real estate assets and/or stranded assets due to physical climate change, with increasing extreme weather events, might be possible especially in the long term, if not man- aged preventively. This risk is considered relevant for the infor- mation needs of users of sustainability reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 6) Supply chain resilience and transition › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in industries and certain markets which might be sub- ject to increasing regulatory requirements and major transfor- mation in relation to climate change mitigation (e.g. trading sys- tems and the transition of suppliers' production sites). In addition, the demand for products and services with a low carbon footprint might increase faster than the supply. Both aspects can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components and/or ser- vices especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 11) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers also op- erate in industries and certain markets which could be subject to extreme transformation and regulatory requirements related to climate change mitigation in the unlikely event of a regulation al- lowing no or only limited overshoot of a 1.5°C temperature in- crease. In addition, the demand for products and services with a low carbon footprint might increase faster than the supply. Both aspects might possibly lead to a critical increase in costs for ma- terials, components and/or services in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 14) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in geographies, industries and certain markets which might be affected by physical climate change, including more ex- treme weather events and increasing long-term climate change. This can lead to moderate supply chain interruptions or material shortages especially in the long term, if not managed preven- tively. This risk is considered relevant for the information needs of users of sustainability reporting. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 7)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 128 Resilience Analysis The analysis of the resilience of Continental’s strategy and business model to the climate change along the entire value chain is inte- grated into the general IRO assessment (see subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclo- sures (ESRS 2) section). In the process of identifying and assessing risks and opportunities as part of the general IRO assessment, Continental took into con- sideration several factors and scenarios. The scenarios are de- scribed in the subsection Specifics of the IRO assessment in rela- tion to climate change in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The use of scenarios and assumptions by definition leads to uncer- tainties in the outcome of the analysis. Further factors considered included especially the following: reduced overall emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and reduced energy consumption due to a switch of fuels towards low-carbon alternatives, enhanced energy efficiency, increased deployment of renewable energy, higher pro- duction share of zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles as well as different speeds of transition to low-carbon technologies. To assess the resili- ence of Continental’s business model to the identified risks and op- portunities, a net assessment was carried out considering the exist- ing management approaches, targets and key actions to achieve the targets related to climate change. Based on the IRO assessment considering the associated limita- tions, uncertainties, time horizons and assumptions as outlined in subsection Process for identifying and assessing material IROs in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section as well as taking into ac- count the management approaches Continental considers its busi- ness model and strategy to be resilient. The management ap- proaches, targets and key actions laid out in this section for achiev- ing the targets describe Continental’s capability to reduce its mate- rial negative impacts, increase positive impacts, manage risks and seize opportunities over short-, medium- and long-term. Continental also assumes that these capabilities will continue to develop over time."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 129 Management Approaches to Climate Change Mitigation, Climate Change Adaptation, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Regarding climate change, Continental has implemented manage- ment approaches that include the following IRO clusters: Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition, climate change adaptation, and supply chain resilience and transition. The following table illustrates the topic areas that are addressed by the specific management approaches. Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Energy efficiency Renewable energy deployment Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions X X X Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition X X X Climate change adaptation X Supply chain resilience and transition X X Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Continental pursues the ambition of achieving full carbon neutrality for its own operations by 2040 and for the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. To support this ambition, Continental has imple- mented a management approach that focuses on minimizing nega- tive environmental impacts and risks in relation to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The management approach also ad- dresses the minimization of transition risks related to Scope 1 and Scope 2. The management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emis- sions covers the entire Continental Group and focuses especially on the production sites, as they are particularly emission-intensive compared to other types of locations. Responsibility for the operational implementation of the manage- ment approach to reduce GHG emissions lies with the respective legal entities. The local management is supported by various func- tions in the organization, e.g. by the departments such as opera- tions, infrastructure, real estate management and purchasing. The Group’s internal framework is defined by the responsible depart- ments (e.g. environment and operations) of Continental and is mon- itored by the Executive Board of the overall Group as well as the in- dividual group sector boards. Continental has established several processes to continuously re- duce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, to promote the transition to carbon neutrality and to create a framework for specific quantified targets and measures. Continental pursues a GHG reduction target covering Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. Progress is monitored through regularly reported emission values (see subsection Targets related to climate change). The process includes dedicated GHG data analyses at various organizational levels and – where neces- sary – updates to the target paths. The results are regularly pre- sented to the Sustainability Steering Committee. GHG emission data serves as the basis for the creation of an overarching Decar- bonization Roadmap 2040 (see subsection Key actions for target achievement), which provides a framework for implementing the necessary measures and is regularly updated based on actual emission values. Continuous calibration of the levers required to pursue the target path is a key element of the roadmap process. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 applies to the whole Conti- nental Group and is further operationalized in the group sectors through their own roadmaps for technology transition. Formalized regular exchange on best practices (e.g. by functions such as infra- structure and environment) supports the implementation of tech- nical solutions and the corresponding program management within Continental’s group sectors. The implementation of the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 is also supported by measures to optimize energy consumption and en- ergy costs. This also includes the expansion of capacities for the in- house generation of electricity from renewable sources as a substi- tute for the external purchase of green electricity (see subsection Key actions for target achievement). General increases in energy ef- ficiency (e.g. through LED lighting) are part of the continuous im- provement processes within the local environmental and energy management systems. Regarding the risk of a devaluation of its own real estate because of climate change mitigation regulations, Continental is striving to increase transparency regarding its real estate portfolio. To this end, a system that provides information on ESG-relevant real estate data (including the GHG emissions caused by the operation of the build- ings) was tested at some pilot locations and in some acquisition transactions in the reporting year."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 130 The framework for the management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions is set by internal climate protection rules, the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 and the sustainability ambition. Within the management approach and local management systems, the standards ISO 14001 (Environmental management systems) and ISO 50001 (Energy management systems) are applied. The calculation and reporting of GHG emissions are carried out in ac- cordance with the standards set by the GHG protocol. Furthermore, multiple climate change mitigation agreements (e.g. the Paris Agreement) as well as regulatory requirements (e.g. the EU Emis- sions Trading System) serve as references. The management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emis- sions considers the global interest in climate change mitigation of various stakeholders. The expectations and requirements of cus- tomers and capital markets to make a positive contribution to cli- mate change mitigation through their value chains are at the fore- front. Communication of the management approach takes place inter- nally via various conferences and publications on the company- wide intranet. The management approach is communicated to ex- ternal stakeholders by means of sustainability reporting, press re- leases, dialogues with customers and investors, as well as trade fairs. Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition The management approach for Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition aims to support Continental on its path to car- bon neutrality along the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. As described in the IROs (see subsection Material impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change), Continental operates in in- dustries that are undergoing major changes. The main objective of the management approach is to successfully steer own operations, taking into account the different transformation speeds of our cus- tomers, sectors and markets. The management approach encompasses the entire Continental Group, its global portfolio and covers all 15 categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol. The focus here is on the most relevant categories associated with the use phase of the products sold (category 11) and the carbon backpack. It in- cludes especially purchased goods and services (category 1), capi- tal goods (category 2) and emissions at the end of the life cycle (category 12). Steering and adaptation of the respective portfolio take place in the responsible business functions, e.g. research and development (R&D), product design, supply chain management and purchasing. These are supported by the sustainability departments. Oversight of the portfolio management is exercised by the Executive Board through, for example, the strategy process. The management approach comprises processes to create trans- parency, identify levers and implement relevant measures. The basis for the management of Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resil- ience and transition is the transparency with regard to the 15 cate- gories of Scope 3 GHG emissions and our portfolio of zero-tailpipe- emission vehicles. Levers to reduce emissions are identified on a continuous basis in the respective processes, with a focus on the use phase and the carbon backpack. The mitigation of material risks and impacts from the use phase of products is primarily related to managing the portfolio resilience and transition in the respective businesses. Important related pro- cesses are market monitoring, optimization of R&D activities, active portfolio management and a close dialogue with customers. This also includes regular assessments of the transferability of the port- folio on the path to carbon neutrality. For Scope 3 GHG backpack emissions, the core resource inflow as- pects related to the purchased goods, services and capital goods are mainly managed within the relevant functions. The correspond- ing management practices include, for example, selection of less emission-intensive materials and suppliers, the active supplier de- velopment and the commitment of suppliers to climate change mit- igation. These practices are integrated in our general procurement and supplier management processes, which are managed by the purchasing functions. In addition, product design that focuses on reducing the carbon footprint of products is another measure that is handled by the product development and R&D departments. Aspects in connection with the emissions at the end of the life cy- cle are mainly managed within product design processes, e.g. by fo- cusing on easier disassembly for reutilization and developing less emission-intensive recycling methods (see Resource use and circu- lar economy (ESRS E5) section). Further potential for minimizing emissions lies in optimizing the transportation of goods, business travel and employee commuting as well as other processes in con- nection with the carbon backpack. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the dif- ferent business process, further internal rules apply directly or indi- rectly addressing climate change mitigation. In addition, the management approach is based on the GHG Proto- col and related standards (e.g. Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) ac- counting and reporting standard) as external frameworks for CO2 emissions accounting. The management approach and associated measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and the requests of investors. Consultations and dialogue with suppliers are key elements for the implementation of carbon backpack-related levers."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 131 Continental communicates its approach to managing Scope 3 emissions as well as portfolio resilience and transition externally through reporting, trade fairs, press releases and investor dialogue. Internal communication takes place via various channels such as sustainability and product-related conferences, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Climate change adaptation To mitigate the risks of a devaluation of the real estate portfolio and of rising operating costs and investments due to physical climate change, Continental has established management approaches that cover the processes for selecting real estate and company loca- tions as well as technical measures for adapting new production sites and measures aimed at changing the behavior of employees. These approaches cover Continental’s own operations. The focus is on assets that may bear certain limitations in terms of their adapta- bility and on potential new locations. The primary responsibility for the implementation of the risk miti- gation measures lies with the operational business, supported by various functions within the organization, e.g. real estate manage- ment, Continental insurance services as well as technical depart- ments specialized in buildings and infrastructure. When selecting new operating sites, Continental considers, among other things, risks associated with existing exposure to extreme weather events, which could be exacerbated by physical climate change. To avoid these potential new risks by adding new locations to the real estate portfolio, Continental has included corresponding requirements in its guidelines for the selection process for new lo- cations. The aim of these requirements is to gain knowledge about the exposure of assets considered to a variety of weather events and other natural disasters and to incorporate the results of the as- sessment in the final decision. In the existing real estate portfolio, the climate conditions are moni- tored at the respective locations. As part of the improvement and optimization of production processes and working conditions, the sites assess cost-efficient options for heating, cooling and ventila- tion case-by-case, considering the potential for reducing energy costs and other operating costs, which is particularly relevant in re- lation to risks associated with long-term climate change (such as rises in temperature). Respective measures are implemented locally within regular site management processes and in alignment with the centrally supporting departments. An additional lever for curbing the increasing operating costs is to raise employee’s awareness of the impact that individual behavior patterns have on the development of the overall energy demand. The implementation of this lever includes, for example, various training courses and campaigns promoting the importance of the responsible use of energy to reduce the costs related to heating, cooling, and ventilation. In addition, risk reduction regarding certain natural hazards and ex- treme weather events, considering the given current exposure, is part of the location-related actuarial risk management process with the resulting organizational and technical measures. Responsibility for implementing these measures lies with the operating business. The selection process for new locations and the management of the real estate portfolio follow the general internal rules. Conti- nental also has its own requirements for building construction and operation, which consider factors such as insulation, for example. In addition, the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 described in the management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions pro- vides a supporting set of rules for reducing the costs of cooling, heating, and ventilation. The management approach relies on international standards ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 related to energy management and the technical requirements of the buildings, including the consideration of local regulatory requirements. In the processes of implementation of the management approach regarding climate change adaptation, especially the interests of Continental's employees regarding working conditions (e.g. temper- ature and fresh air) at the relevant locations are considered. Communication with employees generally takes place at location level. Detailed information on the general forms of engagement and communication with employees are included in the Own work- force (ESRS S1) section. Supply chain resilience and transition With the management approach for supply chain resilience and transition, Continental aims to ensure continuity in the supply chains, prevent interruptions and successfully reduce the cost pres- sure associated with the transition. In this connection, Continental strives to strengthen the overall resilience of the supply chain and thus to be prepared to manage the risks that arise in certain supply chains in the medium and long term. The management approach for supply chain resilience and transi- tion focuses on the Continental Group’s upstream value chain, and particularly on the direct supplier base. There are no geographical restrictions or product group limitations."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 130 The framework for the management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions is set by internal climate protection rules, the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 and the sustainability ambition. Within the management approach and local management systems, the standards ISO 14001 (Environmental management systems) and ISO 50001 (Energy management systems) are applied. The calculation and reporting of GHG emissions are carried out in ac- cordance with the standards set by the GHG protocol. Furthermore, multiple climate change mitigation agreements (e.g. the Paris Agreement) as well as regulatory requirements (e.g. the EU Emis- sions Trading System) serve as references. The management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emis- sions considers the global interest in climate change mitigation of various stakeholders. The expectations and requirements of cus- tomers and capital markets to make a positive contribution to cli- mate change mitigation through their value chains are at the fore- front. Communication of the management approach takes place inter- nally via various conferences and publications on the company- wide intranet. The management approach is communicated to ex- ternal stakeholders by means of sustainability reporting, press re- leases, dialogues with customers and investors, as well as trade fairs. Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition The management approach for Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition aims to support Continental on its path to car- bon neutrality along the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. As described in the IROs (see subsection Material impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change), Continental operates in in- dustries that are undergoing major changes. The main objective of the management approach is to successfully steer own operations, taking into account the different transformation speeds of our cus- tomers, sectors and markets. The management approach encompasses the entire Continental Group, its global portfolio and covers all 15 categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol. The focus here is on the most relevant categories associated with the use phase of the products sold (category 11) and the carbon backpack. It in- cludes especially purchased goods and services (category 1), capi- tal goods (category 2) and emissions at the end of the life cycle (category 12). Steering and adaptation of the respective portfolio take place in the responsible business functions, e.g. research and development (R&D), product design, supply chain management and purchasing. These are supported by the sustainability departments. Oversight of the portfolio management is exercised by the Executive Board through, for example, the strategy process. The management approach comprises processes to create trans- parency, identify levers and implement relevant measures. The basis for the management of Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resil- ience and transition is the transparency with regard to the 15 cate- gories of Scope 3 GHG emissions and our portfolio of zero-tailpipe- emission vehicles. Levers to reduce emissions are identified on a continuous basis in the respective processes, with a focus on the use phase and the carbon backpack. The mitigation of material risks and impacts from the use phase of products is primarily related to managing the portfolio resilience and transition in the respective businesses. Important related pro- cesses are market monitoring, optimization of R&D activities, active portfolio management and a close dialogue with customers. This also includes regular assessments of the transferability of the port- folio on the path to carbon neutrality. For Scope 3 GHG backpack emissions, the core resource inflow as- pects related to the purchased goods, services and capital goods are mainly managed within the relevant functions. The correspond- ing management practices include, for example, selection of less emission-intensive materials and suppliers, the active supplier de- velopment and the commitment of suppliers to climate change mit- igation. These practices are integrated in our general procurement and supplier management processes, which are managed by the purchasing functions. In addition, product design that focuses on reducing the carbon footprint of products is another measure that is handled by the product development and R&D departments. Aspects in connection with the emissions at the end of the life cy- cle are mainly managed within product design processes, e.g. by fo- cusing on easier disassembly for reutilization and developing less emission-intensive recycling methods (see Resource use and circu- lar economy (ESRS E5) section). Further potential for minimizing emissions lies in optimizing the transportation of goods, business travel and employee commuting as well as other processes in con- nection with the carbon backpack. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the dif- ferent business process, further internal rules apply directly or indi- rectly addressing climate change mitigation. In addition, the management approach is based on the GHG Proto- col and related standards (e.g. Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) ac- counting and reporting standard) as external frameworks for CO2 emissions accounting. The management approach and associated measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and the requests of investors. Consultations and dialogue with suppliers are key elements for the implementation of carbon backpack-related levers."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 131 Continental communicates its approach to managing Scope 3 emissions as well as portfolio resilience and transition externally through reporting, trade fairs, press releases and investor dialogue. Internal communication takes place via various channels such as sustainability and product-related conferences, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Climate change adaptation To mitigate the risks of a devaluation of the real estate portfolio and of rising operating costs and investments due to physical climate change, Continental has established management approaches that cover the processes for selecting real estate and company loca- tions as well as technical measures for adapting new production sites and measures aimed at changing the behavior of employees. These approaches cover Continental’s own operations. The focus is on assets that may bear certain limitations in terms of their adapta- bility and on potential new locations. The primary responsibility for the implementation of the risk miti- gation measures lies with the operational business, supported by various functions within the organization, e.g. real estate manage- ment, Continental insurance services as well as technical depart- ments specialized in buildings and infrastructure. When selecting new operating sites, Continental considers, among other things, risks associated with existing exposure to extreme weather events, which could be exacerbated by physical climate change. To avoid these potential new risks by adding new locations to the real estate portfolio, Continental has included corresponding requirements in its guidelines for the selection process for new lo- cations. The aim of these requirements is to gain knowledge about the exposure of assets considered to a variety of weather events and other natural disasters and to incorporate the results of the as- sessment in the final decision. In the existing real estate portfolio, the climate conditions are moni- tored at the respective locations. As part of the improvement and optimization of production processes and working conditions, the sites assess cost-efficient options for heating, cooling and ventila- tion case-by-case, considering the potential for reducing energy costs and other operating costs, which is particularly relevant in re- lation to risks associated with long-term climate change (such as rises in temperature). Respective measures are implemented locally within regular site management processes and in alignment with the centrally supporting departments. An additional lever for curbing the increasing operating costs is to raise employee’s awareness of the impact that individual behavior patterns have on the development of the overall energy demand. The implementation of this lever includes, for example, various training courses and campaigns promoting the importance of the responsible use of energy to reduce the costs related to heating, cooling, and ventilation. In addition, risk reduction regarding certain natural hazards and ex- treme weather events, considering the given current exposure, is part of the location-related actuarial risk management process with the resulting organizational and technical measures. Responsibility for implementing these measures lies with the operating business. The selection process for new locations and the management of the real estate portfolio follow the general internal rules. Conti- nental also has its own requirements for building construction and operation, which consider factors such as insulation, for example. In addition, the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 described in the management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions pro- vides a supporting set of rules for reducing the costs of cooling, heating, and ventilation. The management approach relies on international standards ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 related to energy management and the technical requirements of the buildings, including the consideration of local regulatory requirements. In the processes of implementation of the management approach regarding climate change adaptation, especially the interests of Continental's employees regarding working conditions (e.g. temper- ature and fresh air) at the relevant locations are considered. Communication with employees generally takes place at location level. Detailed information on the general forms of engagement and communication with employees are included in the Own work- force (ESRS S1) section. Supply chain resilience and transition With the management approach for supply chain resilience and transition, Continental aims to ensure continuity in the supply chains, prevent interruptions and successfully reduce the cost pres- sure associated with the transition. In this connection, Continental strives to strengthen the overall resilience of the supply chain and thus to be prepared to manage the risks that arise in certain supply chains in the medium and long term. The management approach for supply chain resilience and transi- tion focuses on the Continental Group’s upstream value chain, and particularly on the direct supplier base. There are no geographical restrictions or product group limitations."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 132 Responsibility for compliance with the relevant processes lies with Continental’s purchasing and supply chain management functions, which are supported by internal risk management. The processes are monitored as part of general business supervision at various or- ganizational levels. Management of the climate-related aspects of supply chain resili- ence and transition is integrated into the general processes for managing supply chain resilience. These processes are handled closely to the operational business and are integrated into the gen- eral practices regarding purchasing, supply chain management and risk management on different levels of the organization. Various as- pects are considered during the procurement process, including strategic factors such as security of supply in the event of extreme weather events, which could be exacerbated by climate change. Further information on the relevant processes can be found in the Report on risks and opportunities section of the management report. The processes are guided by a set of general rules for the related functions on different levels of the organization. The management approach is not based on a specific external set of rules. Close dialogue with customers and suppliers is a key element of the management approach. As the processes are implemented close to operational business, communication with internal stakeholders takes place mainly within the respective businesses. The primary form of external communication is close dialogue with customers and suppliers."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 133 Targets Related to Climate Change Following its sustainability ambition, Continental has set a public sus- tainability target (PST) related to climate change that aims at the re- duction of Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to an absolute value of 0.5 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent (million tCO2e) by 2035. The interim target for 2030 is to reduce Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to 0.7 million tCO2e. Both the main and the interim target are set as absolute values and measured in millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalents (million tCO2e). The formalized target commitment to reduce Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions is a key element of the corresponding management approach to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and the subsequent key actions. The transition towards and, in the end, the achievement of the target allows Continental to mitigate negative im- pacts and risks connected to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The target covers the combined Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. In view of the relatively low amount of remaining mar- ket-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (see subsection Key actions for tar- get achievement), the reduction of Scope 1 GHG emissions is a partic- ular focus and will contribute the major share to the GHG emissions reductions. The target value was defined in alignment with the guid- ance of the GHG Protocol on calculating Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions and includes the greenhouse gases de- scribed in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Consequently, the greenhouse gases cov- ered by the target and considered in the metrics are consistent with the limits of the greenhouse gas inventory. The scope of the main and interim targets extends to the Continental Group’s own operations. The original target trajectory was developed using the base year 2019. The originally publicly reported baseline value amounted to 3.2 million tCO2e for Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The chosen base year is representative in terms of external factors af- fecting the energy consumption and hence, GHG emissions. Due to a relevant change to the company structure in 2021 as well as the in- troduction of the market-based approach for the reporting of Scope 2 GHG emissions, a comparable reference value for the base year 2019 was re-modeled ex-post, and is estimated to around 2.8 million tCO2e. Continental points out that there are uncertainties connected to the data model. In 2024, by decision of the Sustainabil- ity Steering Committee, the target was reconfirmed without changes to the target value, target pathway or target year. The baseline values for the reconfirmed target can be seen in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” The metric com- plies with the ESRS requirements for the calculation of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Continental is of the opinion that the set Scope 1 and Scope 2 target is based on scientific evidence. It should be noted that relevant uncer- tainty remains regarding the breakdown of the global reduction path- way in line with the 1.5°C scenario down to the company level. Greater uncertainties are also associated with the allocation of the CO2 budgets to the various industrial sectors and the extent to which of so-called negative emissions (CO2 removals) can be used if the 1.5°C path is exceeded to a limited extent. Continental’s climate target was reviewed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2020, using the original base year 2019 as a benchmark. A re-validation by the SBTi did not take place. Based on the Continental’s ambition to achieve carbon neutrality in own operations by 2040 at the latest and on the applied methodology, linear derivations of the required emis- sions values for the year 2030 were validated and confirmed as being compliant with the Paris Agreement. Considering the modeled refer- ence value and the updated pathway, Continental views its emissions reduction target to be still in line with the level of ambition of the origi- nal reduction pathway. The target setting followed the methodology of an absolute reduction as described by SBTi in the framework “Foundations of Science-based Target Setting (Version 1.0)”, including the defined underlying climate and policy scenarios. The derivation was based on a cross-sector emissions pathway. No anticipated external developments and their impact on green- house gas emissions were explicitly considered when setting the tar- get. Significant changes to Continental’s company structure, product portfolio or production volumes might lead to the adjustment of the target values. In 2024, no changes were made to the target values. When setting the target, Continental considered the interests of differ- ent stakeholders (such as customers, authorities), e.g. by applying the SBTi methodology."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 134 To reach the target level of GHG emissions, Continental has identified two primary decarbonization levers. › Continued purchase of green electricity: Continental purchases electricity exclusively from renewable energy sources. Various contractual instruments are used for this purpose, which are listed in the corresponding metrics. Continuation of this approach allows the avoidance of market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions from electricity consumption. › Technological transformation: This lever is closely linked to the operational processes and is formalized in the technology trans- formation roadmaps of the individual group sectors. It consists primarily of the sub-levers such as the phase-out of coal, the gradual phase-out of other fossil fuels, the switch to biofuels and biomass as well as increased electrification of production pro- cesses that were previously run on fossil fuels. According to Continental’s assessment, the targeted GHG reductions will be fully, i.e. to 100 %, achieved through combination of the two aforementioned decarbonization levers. The two levers are inextrica- bly linked, and both have a simultaneous effect on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Any further breakdown of the contributions into Scope 1 and Scope 2 is therefore not meaningful. Continental sees the increase in energy efficiency and the expansion of capacities for self-generation of electricity from renewable sources primarily not as direct, but as supporting levers for target achieve- ment. Continental is of the opinion that the implementation of these levers with the speed required to achieve the target is in line with the 1.5°C pathway as set out in the original target setting. The operationalization of these decarbonization levers through the key actions is reflected in the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040, with which Continental is creating a framework for target achievement. Continental’s progress regarding the set emissions reduction target can be derived from the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Progress is measured using the defined metric, which was fully adapted to the ESRS requirements in 2024. In 2024, there were no significant changes to the business model and business activities that could potentially affect the target achievement. In Continental’s opin- ion, progress towards achieving the target by 2024 is in line with the original plans."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 135 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has defined concrete key actions to achieve its Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction target set for 2035 and to further foster the transition to carbon neutrality. Corresponding decarbonization measures are embedded in the op- erational activities and are gradually being developed and imple- mented by the individual legal entities. The decentralized approach pursued leads to a large number of measures that are completed through specific projects with individual completion timelines rang- ing from short-term to long-term. Continental’s climate change mitigation measures cover all types of activities in own operations. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 introduced in 2021 is the in- ternal set of rules for determining the key actions required to achieve the emissions reduction target. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 focuses on the most im- portant levers (see subsection Targets related to climate change) which are further operationalized through concrete actions. Continued purchase of green electricity Continental purchases electricity solely from renewable energy sources. In doing so, Continental makes use of green electricity con- tracts, power purchase agreements and other contractual instru- ments. For volumes of purchased electricity that are not covered by contractual instruments, Continental purchases energy attribute cer- tificates that comply with the specified quality criteria. This key ac- tion is implemented by the respective legal entities in close coopera- tion with the central purchasing and environmental departments who ensure a holistic approach and full coverage of the externally purchased electricity volumes through corresponding instruments. Technological transformation Technological transformation takes place within the responsible le- gal entities supported by central functions (e.g. operations or infra- structure). As part of group sector-specific roadmap implementa- tion programs, suitable concrete measures for the respective loca- tions and production processes, as well as the sequence of their im- plementation at location level are analyzed and decided upon. At the tire plant in Lousado, Portugal, for example, an electric boiler was put into operation in 2024 to generate steam required for the production processes. Gas, which was previously used as an energy source for steam generation, was replaced by green electricity. Similar projects regarding the levers identified for target achieve- ment are implemented at various locations if this is technically and economically feasible. Selection of the projects is part of the gen- eral investment process applying generally applicable criteria for decision-making as well as the allocation of capital. The investment budget is determined as part of financial planning. In the event of a positive investment decision, the necessary financial resources are thus made available for the project. The metrics for the achieved and expected GHG emissions reduc- tions as a result of the implementation of such projects are set out in the tables below. Achieved GHG reduction 2024 Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction achieved, in million tCO2e 0.217 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as the difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the base year of the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 (2021) and the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Expected GHG reduction 2024 Expected Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction, in million tCO2e 0.333 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year and the target value for Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions in 2035 (see subsection Targets related to climate change). - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 128 Resilience Analysis The analysis of the resilience of Continental’s strategy and business model to the climate change along the entire value chain is inte- grated into the general IRO assessment (see subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclo- sures (ESRS 2) section). In the process of identifying and assessing risks and opportunities as part of the general IRO assessment, Continental took into con- sideration several factors and scenarios. The scenarios are de- scribed in the subsection Specifics of the IRO assessment in rela- tion to climate change in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The use of scenarios and assumptions by definition leads to uncer- tainties in the outcome of the analysis. Further factors considered included especially the following: reduced overall emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and reduced energy consumption due to a switch of fuels towards low-carbon alternatives, enhanced energy efficiency, increased deployment of renewable energy, higher pro- duction share of zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles as well as different speeds of transition to low-carbon technologies. To assess the resili- ence of Continental’s business model to the identified risks and op- portunities, a net assessment was carried out considering the exist- ing management approaches, targets and key actions to achieve the targets related to climate change. Based on the IRO assessment considering the associated limita- tions, uncertainties, time horizons and assumptions as outlined in subsection Process for identifying and assessing material IROs in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section as well as taking into ac- count the management approaches Continental considers its busi- ness model and strategy to be resilient. The management ap- proaches, targets and key actions laid out in this section for achiev- ing the targets describe Continental’s capability to reduce its mate- rial negative impacts, increase positive impacts, manage risks and seize opportunities over short-, medium- and long-term. Continental also assumes that these capabilities will continue to develop over time."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 129 Management Approaches to Climate Change Mitigation, Climate Change Adaptation, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Regarding climate change, Continental has implemented manage- ment approaches that include the following IRO clusters: Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition, climate change adaptation, and supply chain resilience and transition. The following table illustrates the topic areas that are addressed by the specific management approaches. Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Energy efficiency Renewable energy deployment Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions X X X Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition X X X Climate change adaptation X Supply chain resilience and transition X X Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Continental pursues the ambition of achieving full carbon neutrality for its own operations by 2040 and for the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. To support this ambition, Continental has imple- mented a management approach that focuses on minimizing nega- tive environmental impacts and risks in relation to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The management approach also ad- dresses the minimization of transition risks related to Scope 1 and Scope 2. The management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emis- sions covers the entire Continental Group and focuses especially on the production sites, as they are particularly emission-intensive compared to other types of locations. Responsibility for the operational implementation of the manage- ment approach to reduce GHG emissions lies with the respective legal entities. The local management is supported by various func- tions in the organization, e.g. by the departments such as opera- tions, infrastructure, real estate management and purchasing. The Group’s internal framework is defined by the responsible depart- ments (e.g. environment and operations) of Continental and is mon- itored by the Executive Board of the overall Group as well as the in- dividual group sector boards. Continental has established several processes to continuously re- duce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, to promote the transition to carbon neutrality and to create a framework for specific quantified targets and measures. Continental pursues a GHG reduction target covering Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. Progress is monitored through regularly reported emission values (see subsection Targets related to climate change). The process includes dedicated GHG data analyses at various organizational levels and – where neces- sary – updates to the target paths. The results are regularly pre- sented to the Sustainability Steering Committee. GHG emission data serves as the basis for the creation of an overarching Decar- bonization Roadmap 2040 (see subsection Key actions for target achievement), which provides a framework for implementing the necessary measures and is regularly updated based on actual emission values. Continuous calibration of the levers required to pursue the target path is a key element of the roadmap process. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 applies to the whole Conti- nental Group and is further operationalized in the group sectors through their own roadmaps for technology transition. Formalized regular exchange on best practices (e.g. by functions such as infra- structure and environment) supports the implementation of tech- nical solutions and the corresponding program management within Continental’s group sectors. The implementation of the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 is also supported by measures to optimize energy consumption and en- ergy costs. This also includes the expansion of capacities for the in- house generation of electricity from renewable sources as a substi- tute for the external purchase of green electricity (see subsection Key actions for target achievement). General increases in energy ef- ficiency (e.g. through LED lighting) are part of the continuous im- provement processes within the local environmental and energy management systems. Regarding the risk of a devaluation of its own real estate because of climate change mitigation regulations, Continental is striving to increase transparency regarding its real estate portfolio. To this end, a system that provides information on ESG-relevant real estate data (including the GHG emissions caused by the operation of the build- ings) was tested at some pilot locations and in some acquisition transactions in the reporting year."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 130 The framework for the management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions is set by internal climate protection rules, the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 and the sustainability ambition. Within the management approach and local management systems, the standards ISO 14001 (Environmental management systems) and ISO 50001 (Energy management systems) are applied. The calculation and reporting of GHG emissions are carried out in ac- cordance with the standards set by the GHG protocol. Furthermore, multiple climate change mitigation agreements (e.g. the Paris Agreement) as well as regulatory requirements (e.g. the EU Emis- sions Trading System) serve as references. The management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emis- sions considers the global interest in climate change mitigation of various stakeholders. The expectations and requirements of cus- tomers and capital markets to make a positive contribution to cli- mate change mitigation through their value chains are at the fore- front. Communication of the management approach takes place inter- nally via various conferences and publications on the company- wide intranet. The management approach is communicated to ex- ternal stakeholders by means of sustainability reporting, press re- leases, dialogues with customers and investors, as well as trade fairs. Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition The management approach for Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition aims to support Continental on its path to car- bon neutrality along the entire value chain by 2050 at the latest. As described in the IROs (see subsection Material impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change), Continental operates in in- dustries that are undergoing major changes. The main objective of the management approach is to successfully steer own operations, taking into account the different transformation speeds of our cus- tomers, sectors and markets. The management approach encompasses the entire Continental Group, its global portfolio and covers all 15 categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol. The focus here is on the most relevant categories associated with the use phase of the products sold (category 11) and the carbon backpack. It in- cludes especially purchased goods and services (category 1), capi- tal goods (category 2) and emissions at the end of the life cycle (category 12). Steering and adaptation of the respective portfolio take place in the responsible business functions, e.g. research and development (R&D), product design, supply chain management and purchasing. These are supported by the sustainability departments. Oversight of the portfolio management is exercised by the Executive Board through, for example, the strategy process. The management approach comprises processes to create trans- parency, identify levers and implement relevant measures. The basis for the management of Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resil- ience and transition is the transparency with regard to the 15 cate- gories of Scope 3 GHG emissions and our portfolio of zero-tailpipe- emission vehicles. Levers to reduce emissions are identified on a continuous basis in the respective processes, with a focus on the use phase and the carbon backpack. The mitigation of material risks and impacts from the use phase of products is primarily related to managing the portfolio resilience and transition in the respective businesses. Important related pro- cesses are market monitoring, optimization of R&D activities, active portfolio management and a close dialogue with customers. This also includes regular assessments of the transferability of the port- folio on the path to carbon neutrality. For Scope 3 GHG backpack emissions, the core resource inflow as- pects related to the purchased goods, services and capital goods are mainly managed within the relevant functions. The correspond- ing management practices include, for example, selection of less emission-intensive materials and suppliers, the active supplier de- velopment and the commitment of suppliers to climate change mit- igation. These practices are integrated in our general procurement and supplier management processes, which are managed by the purchasing functions. In addition, product design that focuses on reducing the carbon footprint of products is another measure that is handled by the product development and R&D departments. Aspects in connection with the emissions at the end of the life cy- cle are mainly managed within product design processes, e.g. by fo- cusing on easier disassembly for reutilization and developing less emission-intensive recycling methods (see Resource use and circu- lar economy (ESRS E5) section). Further potential for minimizing emissions lies in optimizing the transportation of goods, business travel and employee commuting as well as other processes in con- nection with the carbon backpack. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the dif- ferent business process, further internal rules apply directly or indi- rectly addressing climate change mitigation. In addition, the management approach is based on the GHG Proto- col and related standards (e.g. Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) ac- counting and reporting standard) as external frameworks for CO2 emissions accounting. The management approach and associated measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and the requests of investors. Consultations and dialogue with suppliers are key elements for the implementation of carbon backpack-related levers."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 131 Continental communicates its approach to managing Scope 3 emissions as well as portfolio resilience and transition externally through reporting, trade fairs, press releases and investor dialogue. Internal communication takes place via various channels such as sustainability and product-related conferences, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Climate change adaptation To mitigate the risks of a devaluation of the real estate portfolio and of rising operating costs and investments due to physical climate change, Continental has established management approaches that cover the processes for selecting real estate and company loca- tions as well as technical measures for adapting new production sites and measures aimed at changing the behavior of employees. These approaches cover Continental’s own operations. The focus is on assets that may bear certain limitations in terms of their adapta- bility and on potential new locations. The primary responsibility for the implementation of the risk miti- gation measures lies with the operational business, supported by various functions within the organization, e.g. real estate manage- ment, Continental insurance services as well as technical depart- ments specialized in buildings and infrastructure. When selecting new operating sites, Continental considers, among other things, risks associated with existing exposure to extreme weather events, which could be exacerbated by physical climate change. To avoid these potential new risks by adding new locations to the real estate portfolio, Continental has included corresponding requirements in its guidelines for the selection process for new lo- cations. The aim of these requirements is to gain knowledge about the exposure of assets considered to a variety of weather events and other natural disasters and to incorporate the results of the as- sessment in the final decision. In the existing real estate portfolio, the climate conditions are moni- tored at the respective locations. As part of the improvement and optimization of production processes and working conditions, the sites assess cost-efficient options for heating, cooling and ventila- tion case-by-case, considering the potential for reducing energy costs and other operating costs, which is particularly relevant in re- lation to risks associated with long-term climate change (such as rises in temperature). Respective measures are implemented locally within regular site management processes and in alignment with the centrally supporting departments. An additional lever for curbing the increasing operating costs is to raise employee’s awareness of the impact that individual behavior patterns have on the development of the overall energy demand. The implementation of this lever includes, for example, various training courses and campaigns promoting the importance of the responsible use of energy to reduce the costs related to heating, cooling, and ventilation. In addition, risk reduction regarding certain natural hazards and ex- treme weather events, considering the given current exposure, is part of the location-related actuarial risk management process with the resulting organizational and technical measures. Responsibility for implementing these measures lies with the operating business. The selection process for new locations and the management of the real estate portfolio follow the general internal rules. Conti- nental also has its own requirements for building construction and operation, which consider factors such as insulation, for example. In addition, the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 described in the management approach for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions pro- vides a supporting set of rules for reducing the costs of cooling, heating, and ventilation. The management approach relies on international standards ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 related to energy management and the technical requirements of the buildings, including the consideration of local regulatory requirements. In the processes of implementation of the management approach regarding climate change adaptation, especially the interests of Continental's employees regarding working conditions (e.g. temper- ature and fresh air) at the relevant locations are considered. Communication with employees generally takes place at location level. Detailed information on the general forms of engagement and communication with employees are included in the Own work- force (ESRS S1) section. Supply chain resilience and transition With the management approach for supply chain resilience and transition, Continental aims to ensure continuity in the supply chains, prevent interruptions and successfully reduce the cost pres- sure associated with the transition. In this connection, Continental strives to strengthen the overall resilience of the supply chain and thus to be prepared to manage the risks that arise in certain supply chains in the medium and long term. The management approach for supply chain resilience and transi- tion focuses on the Continental Group’s upstream value chain, and particularly on the direct supplier base. There are no geographical restrictions or product group limitations."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 132 Responsibility for compliance with the relevant processes lies with Continental’s purchasing and supply chain management functions, which are supported by internal risk management. The processes are monitored as part of general business supervision at various or- ganizational levels. Management of the climate-related aspects of supply chain resili- ence and transition is integrated into the general processes for managing supply chain resilience. These processes are handled closely to the operational business and are integrated into the gen- eral practices regarding purchasing, supply chain management and risk management on different levels of the organization. Various as- pects are considered during the procurement process, including strategic factors such as security of supply in the event of extreme weather events, which could be exacerbated by climate change. Further information on the relevant processes can be found in the Report on risks and opportunities section of the management report. The processes are guided by a set of general rules for the related functions on different levels of the organization. The management approach is not based on a specific external set of rules. Close dialogue with customers and suppliers is a key element of the management approach. As the processes are implemented close to operational business, communication with internal stakeholders takes place mainly within the respective businesses. The primary form of external communication is close dialogue with customers and suppliers."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 133 Targets Related to Climate Change Following its sustainability ambition, Continental has set a public sus- tainability target (PST) related to climate change that aims at the re- duction of Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to an absolute value of 0.5 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent (million tCO2e) by 2035. The interim target for 2030 is to reduce Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to 0.7 million tCO2e. Both the main and the interim target are set as absolute values and measured in millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalents (million tCO2e). The formalized target commitment to reduce Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions is a key element of the corresponding management approach to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and the subsequent key actions. The transition towards and, in the end, the achievement of the target allows Continental to mitigate negative im- pacts and risks connected to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The target covers the combined Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. In view of the relatively low amount of remaining mar- ket-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (see subsection Key actions for tar- get achievement), the reduction of Scope 1 GHG emissions is a partic- ular focus and will contribute the major share to the GHG emissions reductions. The target value was defined in alignment with the guid- ance of the GHG Protocol on calculating Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions and includes the greenhouse gases de- scribed in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Consequently, the greenhouse gases cov- ered by the target and considered in the metrics are consistent with the limits of the greenhouse gas inventory. The scope of the main and interim targets extends to the Continental Group’s own operations. The original target trajectory was developed using the base year 2019. The originally publicly reported baseline value amounted to 3.2 million tCO2e for Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The chosen base year is representative in terms of external factors af- fecting the energy consumption and hence, GHG emissions. Due to a relevant change to the company structure in 2021 as well as the in- troduction of the market-based approach for the reporting of Scope 2 GHG emissions, a comparable reference value for the base year 2019 was re-modeled ex-post, and is estimated to around 2.8 million tCO2e. Continental points out that there are uncertainties connected to the data model. In 2024, by decision of the Sustainabil- ity Steering Committee, the target was reconfirmed without changes to the target value, target pathway or target year. The baseline values for the reconfirmed target can be seen in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” The metric com- plies with the ESRS requirements for the calculation of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Continental is of the opinion that the set Scope 1 and Scope 2 target is based on scientific evidence. It should be noted that relevant uncer- tainty remains regarding the breakdown of the global reduction path- way in line with the 1.5°C scenario down to the company level. Greater uncertainties are also associated with the allocation of the CO2 budgets to the various industrial sectors and the extent to which of so-called negative emissions (CO2 removals) can be used if the 1.5°C path is exceeded to a limited extent. Continental’s climate target was reviewed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2020, using the original base year 2019 as a benchmark. A re-validation by the SBTi did not take place. Based on the Continental’s ambition to achieve carbon neutrality in own operations by 2040 at the latest and on the applied methodology, linear derivations of the required emis- sions values for the year 2030 were validated and confirmed as being compliant with the Paris Agreement. Considering the modeled refer- ence value and the updated pathway, Continental views its emissions reduction target to be still in line with the level of ambition of the origi- nal reduction pathway. The target setting followed the methodology of an absolute reduction as described by SBTi in the framework “Foundations of Science-based Target Setting (Version 1.0)”, including the defined underlying climate and policy scenarios. The derivation was based on a cross-sector emissions pathway. No anticipated external developments and their impact on green- house gas emissions were explicitly considered when setting the tar- get. Significant changes to Continental’s company structure, product portfolio or production volumes might lead to the adjustment of the target values. In 2024, no changes were made to the target values. When setting the target, Continental considered the interests of differ- ent stakeholders (such as customers, authorities), e.g. by applying the SBTi methodology."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 138 Internal CO2 Pricing System According to Continental’s interpretation of the regulatory require- ments of the ESRS regarding internal CO2 pricing systems, such a mechanism is not used at Continental. To incentivize the transition to carbon neutrality, Continental has created the option for its legal entities to take internal CO2 shadow prices into account as a sup- porting factor in investment decision-making processes. The sys- tem has a non-binding character. The companies decide inde- pendently whether to include the optional CO2 shadow price for certain investment projects as an additional factor for calculating the internal rate of return (IRR) which is the steering-relevant KPI. The optional shadow price is determined based on Continental’s ex- pectations regarding the future development of external CO2 prices. Due to specifics of the non-binding character and subse- quently the limited application scope, estimates on the share of GHG emissions covered by the CO2 pricing system are not repre- sentative. Metrics Related to Climate Change Gross Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions and total GHG emissions Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year (2019) 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Calculated linear reduction rate per year, in % Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in million tCO2e 2.791 — 0.833 — — 0.700 0.500 6.25 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Gross GHG emissions from Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 as shown in the following table are considered. - The following greenhouse gases are covered: carbon dioxide (CO2); methane (CH4); nitrous oxide (N2O); sulfur hexafluoride (SF6); nitrogen trifluoride (NF3); hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); perfluorocarbons (PFCs). - The calculation is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies set out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The emissions from the base year 2019 were recalculated based on organizational changes and adjustments to the definition of the indicator. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 139 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 671,731 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 671,731 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading systems, in % — — 19.4 — — — — — Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 1,424,774 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 1,424,774 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 161,504 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 161,504 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Percentage of energy purchased with contractual instruments, in % — — 84.7 — — — — — Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Emissions factors for refrigerants in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2024/573 of the European Parliament and of the Council from February 7, 2024 on fluorinated greenhouse gases are considered. These are based on the IPCC 4 and not on the more recent IPCC 6, which does not result in any significant effects. - Scope 1 comprises emissions from the combustion of energy sources in own processes. Emission factors of IEA Static, GHG Protocol and DEFRA are applied. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 1 emissions of the relevant fully consolidated companies. Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 1 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading systems - The EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) and the Shanghai Pilot ETS are considered. - Scope 1 GHG emissions from the entire location that fall under these emissions trading systems are considered. Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Average electricity grid emissions factors by country are applied. These come from IEA Static, GHG Protocol and DEFRA. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 2 location-based emissions of its relevant fully consolidated companies. Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 2 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Gross Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Contract-specific emission factors are applied. - Emissions from steam and district heat are calculated using confirmed emission factors from local energy suppliers. If these factors are not available, location-based emission factors (see Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions) are used. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 2 location-based emissions of its relevant fully consolidated companies. Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 2 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Percentage of energy purchased with contractual instruments - Energy purchased using contractual instruments (on-site PPA, off-site PPA, Green Tariff, Energy Attribute Certificates) is considered. - The specification represents the share of energy purchased with contractual instruments in relation to the total amount of purchased energy with relevance for Scope 2. - The data is collected by the individual company locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 140 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions in tCO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions — — 99,418,244 — — — — — 1. Purchased goods and services — — 14,270,642 — — — — — 2. Capital goods — — 826,610 — — — — — 3. Energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) — — 458,530 — — — — — 4. Upstream transportation and distribution — — 977,819 — — — — — 5. Waste generated in operations — — 32,368 — — — — — 6. Business travel — — 64,428 — — — — — 7. Employee commuting — — 206,684 — — — — — 8. Upstream leased assets — — 0 — — — — — 9. Downstream transportation and distribution — — 304,692 — — — — — 10. Processing of sold products — — 51,558 — — — — — 11. Use of sold products — — 78,510,936 — — — — — 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products — — 3,663,651 — — — — — 13. Downstream leased assets — — 1,603 — — — — — 14. Franchises — — 23,742 — — — — — 15. Investments — — 24,982 — — — — — Overarching definitions and assumptions: - Scope 3 GHG emissions are calculated in alignment with the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standards 2011 and the supplement standards. Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods Total calculated gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions - Total of categories (1) to (15). Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – purchased goods and services - Purchased goods and services relate to the extraction, production and transportation of goods purchased by the company in the reporting year. Only the goods and services relevant for category 1 according to the GHG Protocol are considered, including all upstream emissions (cradle-to-gate). - Emissions for goods are calculated on a weight basis and for services on a cost basis. The emission factors of Sphera Solutions GmbH or internally determined group sector-specific and business area-specific GHG factors are used to calculate the emissions. - For purchased product groups for which not all weight data is available, the missing proportion is extrapolated using the average method. The expenditures for services are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. Within this expenditure-based method, the data is extrapolated for a small share. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – capital goods - Capital goods that are purchased in the reporting year are considered. - The expenditures for capital goods are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. As part of this expenditure-based method, the data for a small share is extrapolated. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scopes 1 and 2) - Energy- and fuel-related activities are defined as extraction, production, transportation, and transportation losses of purchased fuels and energy that are not covered by Scope 1 or Scope 2. - For energy consumption, the specific emission factors from DEFRA are used within the framework of an average data method. - The country-specific power grid emission factors are calculated based on the DEFRA calculation method. For this category, well-to-tank emission factors are considered. - An average transmission loss of 5 % as recommended by DEFRA for steam and district heat is applied. - In the case of renewable electricity, it is assumed that the mix consists of 50 % photovoltaics and 50 % wind power. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream transportation and distribution - Upstream transportation and distribution are defined as the transportation of goods from direct suppliers to the company as well as within the company and to the customer, if paid for by the company and using third-party vehicles and facilities, including emissions from transportation services. - For this category, average data, costs and GHG data from service providers are applied using the distance-based method, with the missing share extrapolated. - Apart from CO2 data from service providers, the emissions for each mode of transport (road, rail, sea, and air) were determined through calculations, whereby a small proportion of the transport modes are estimated. - The basis for calculation includes logistics expenses, weight distance and transport equipment multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH or DEFRA. - The emissions of the ContiTech group sector are primarily calculated based on the GHG data from service providers. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – waste generated in operations - Waste generation is multiplied by specific emission factors from DEFRA using an average data method for different waste categories, only considering emissions associated with landfill sites and incinerators. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – business travel - Travel booking service providers report GHG emissions for business trips. Hotel overnight stays are included as optional data. The various travel options are also considered and calculated. - Some of these external primary data refer to emission factors from DEFRA or vehicle manufacturers. - Business travel that may not have been booked through these service providers is considered by an estimate based on an expert assumption. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – employee commuting - Daily commuting time and modes of transport are based on an external global survey. - For this average-data method, the emissions are calculated on the basis of the estimated commuting distance, effective number of working days and the number of employees together with the DEFRA emission factors."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 141 Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream leased assets - Continental AG is using management control as a consolidation approach. Therefore, there are no Scope 3 emissions allocated to leased assets. These are only reported under Scopes 1 and 2. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – downstream transportation and distribution - Downstream transportation and distribution are defined as emissions from the transportation and distribution of products after the point of sale, including retail and storage. - The logistics paid for by the customers are extrapolated from Continental’s own outbound logistics emissions from “Upstream transportation and distribution”, based on the share of selfpickers determined by total sales or product weight. - The emission factors from the “Upstream transportation and distribution” category are applied. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – processing of products sold - Processing of sold products covers the processing of intermediate products sold in the reporting year to downstream companies. - For the Automotive and ContiTech group sectors, the calculation only considers emissions that are related to the material handling and general assembly stages of Continental products. Taking the product weight sold and the average vehicle weight based on market data, a virtual vehicle quantity is modeled in this average-data method. This virtual vehicle quantity is multiplied by the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions per vehicle manufactured by selected automotive manufacturers. - The calculation model used in the Tires group sector considers the energy consumption per tire assembly, which was determined by measurements and calculations for passenger car and truck tires in various processing steps. - The calculation relates exclusively to Continental’s vehicle business. The industrial business within the ContiTech group sector and the trading business of the Tires and Automotive group sectors are not included, as these emissions are not considered relevant in terms of their magnitude. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – use of sold products - This category includes the indirect emissions from the ContiTech and Tires group sectors during the use phase, which are optional to be reported according to the GHG Protocol. For the Automotive group sector, some products, particularly electronic products, consume electricity during their use phase and could be classified as direct emissions from the use phase. For this category, tank-to-wheel emission factors are used. - Indirect emissions in the retail business of the Automotive group sector and parts of the specialty tires, non-tire products and products in the retail business of Tires group sector as well as the industrial business of the ContiTech group sector, except for the conveyor belt business, are not included in the calculation. - For the Automotive and ContiTech group sectors, the calculation method is based on the expected product service life as stated by selected automotive manufacturers and the sold product weight, applying average-data methods with emission factors from ICCT and DEFRA. - To calculate ContiTech group sector conveyor belt use phase emissions, an average belt weight, related idle power load, belt runtime per year and lifetime are assessed based on internal data and expert assessments. - The Tires group sector calculation model is based on tire-industry aligned “Product Category Rules” (PCR). The energy consumption of sold tires is calculated by considering rolling resistance and acceleration resistance. - Furthermore, fuel-specific emission factors from DEFRA, which are based on the PCR powertrain mix in the respective markets, are used for the Tires group sector. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – end-of-life treatment of sold products - Waste disposal and treatment of sold products at the end of their life cycle are considered. - The weight of the sold products is multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH in accordance with the disposal and recycling type. In the absence of weight information for individual product groups, emissions are calculated based on information on purchased goods. - Internal expert assessments and industrial data are used in the classification of the disposal and recycling type. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – downstream leased assets - Downstream leased assets are defined as the operation of assets owned by Conti- nental that are leased to other companies during the reporting year, excluding those that are included in the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reported by the lessor. - This category is calculated using an average-data method. - The size of the leased assets is multiplied by the country- and asset-specific emission factors from PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials). - The leased equipment (e.g. machinery) are multiplied by a specific emission factor from DEFRA. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – franchises - Using an average-data method, the number of franchise locations is multiplied by the internally determined energy consumption and the specific emission factors from DEFRA. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – investments - For this category, emissions are calculated using an average-data method. - The sales of at-equity-accounted investees in financial reporting are multiplied by the portion of Continental’s financial contribution with own GHG emissions (calculated based on Continental’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) per euro of sales. - In cases where sales figures are not available, GHG emissions are extrapolated based on the number of reporting companies."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 142 Total GHG emissions, in t CO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total location-based GHG emissions — — 101,514,749 — — — — — Total market-based GHG emissions — — 100,251,479 — — — — — Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total location-based GHG emissions include the GHG emissions from Scope 1, location-based Scope 2, and Scope 3. - The total market-based GHG emissions are composed of Scope 1, market-based Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. - The figures are calculated in accordance with the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Scope 3 emissions using primary data 2024 Share of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data, in % 0.01 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Only emissions for which primary data were available in the form of an externally verified product carbon footprint are considered. - Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated based on primary data are considered. These are set in relation to the total Scope 3 GHG emissions. Biogenic CO2 emissions 2024 Biogenic direct emissions not included in Scope 1, in million tCO2e 0.037 Biogenic location-based indirect emissions not included in Scope 2, in million tCO2e 0.042 Biogenic market-based indirect emissions not included in Scope 2, in million tCO2e 0.000 Biogenic indirect emissions not included in Scope 3, in million tCO2e 0.859 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Biogenic Scope 1 emissions - Emissions from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass, including solid biomass, biomethane, liquid biofuels and green hydrogen, are considered. - The base data for the calculation of biogenic Scope 1 emissions are considered in accordance with the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. In contrast, this metric only considers CO2 emissions that are not included in Scope 1 GHG emissions. - Emission factors from DEFRA are used for the calculation. Biogenic emissions in relation to location-based and market-based Scope 2 emissions - Continental only considers emissions from electricity, steam, and district heat under market-based Scope 2 emissions to be biogenic if sufficient evidence is available. - Biogenic location-based Scope 2 emissions are modeled and extrapolated based on electricity purchases and external data sources (German Association of the Automotive Industry, VDA) for the specific share of biomass and biogas in the electricity mix. - The figures are calculated in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Biogenic Scope 3 emissions - Biogenic emissions resulting from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass are considered, including organic non-fossil material of biological origin, biofuels, biogenic gases and biogenic waste. Therefore, only emissions of the category Scope 3 – End-of-life treatment of sold products – are considered, through incineration of biogenic substances in the products. - All other Scope 3 categories according to the GHG Protocol have not been included in the calculation for biogenic Scope 3 emissions. - Scope 3 emissions are calculated based on the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 3 GHG emissions. - The calculation is based on the purchased quantity of natural rubber according to Scope 3 category 1 and is equivalent to the quantities from Scope 3 category 12. The proportion of biogenic CO2 emissions is calculated based on calculated factors for material disposal through incineration and material proportions of biological origin in the products."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 143 GHG emissions intensity Location-based GHG emissions intensity 2024 Intensity of location-based GHG emissions, in million tCO2e / € millions 0.003 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total location-based GHG emissions are divided by the sales revenue presented in the consolidated financial statements. - The calculation of the total GHG emissions is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies set out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Market-based GHG emissions intensity 2024 Intensity of market-based GHG emissions, in million tCO2e / € millions 0.003 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total market-based GHG emissions are divided by the sales revenue presented in the consolidated financial statements. - The calculation of the total GHG emissions is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies lined out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Information on sales (denominator in the calculation of the intensity of GHG emissions) can be found in the consolidated financial state- ments in the Consolidated statement of income section and in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix 2024 (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products, in MWh 82,476 (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products, in MWh 129,421 (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas, in MWh 2,840,436 (4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources, in MWh 61,634 (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources, in MWh 754,333 (6) Total energy consumption from fossil sources, in MWh 3,868,301 (7) Total energy consumption from nuclear sources, in MWh 0 (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources, in MWh 110,068 (9) Energy consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from renewable sources, in MWh 4,219,044 (10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy, in MWh 26,652 (11) Total energy consumption from renewable sources, in MWh 4,355,765 (12) Total energy consumption, in MWh 8,224,066 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Overarching information for positions (1) – (12) - If required, conversion factors are used to convert fuel consumption into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual company locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. - In addition, the December consumption is calculated for individual locations if the necessary data or receipts were not yet available at the time of reporting. (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products - Includes the consumption of coal and lignite (brown coal). (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products - Includes the consumption of diesel, gasoil, gasoline and heating oil. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas - Includes the consumption of natural gas. (4) Consumption of fuels from other fossil sources - Includes the consumption of liquified petroleum gas (LPG), propane and liquid butane. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources - Includes the consumption of purchased district heat and steam from fossil sources. - Energy sources are allocated using the market-based method. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (6) Total energy consumption from fossil sources - Total of positions (1) to (5). (7) Total energy consumption from nuclear sources - Includes energy consumption from nuclear sources. - The energy source is allocated using the market-based method. (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources - Includes the consumption of biomass, biofuels, biomethane and green hydrogen. (9) Energy consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from renewable sources - Contains the purchased electricity mix, electricity from renewable sources with energy attribute certificates (off-site PPA, on-site PPA, green tariff), purchased steam and district heat from renewable sources. - The calculation is made using the market-based method. (10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy - Includes the consumption of self-generated electricity from renewable sources. (11) Total energy consumption from renewable sources - Total of positions (8) to (10). (12) Total energy consumption - Calculated as the total of positions (6), (7) and (11)."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 134 To reach the target level of GHG emissions, Continental has identified two primary decarbonization levers. › Continued purchase of green electricity: Continental purchases electricity exclusively from renewable energy sources. Various contractual instruments are used for this purpose, which are listed in the corresponding metrics. Continuation of this approach allows the avoidance of market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions from electricity consumption. › Technological transformation: This lever is closely linked to the operational processes and is formalized in the technology trans- formation roadmaps of the individual group sectors. It consists primarily of the sub-levers such as the phase-out of coal, the gradual phase-out of other fossil fuels, the switch to biofuels and biomass as well as increased electrification of production pro- cesses that were previously run on fossil fuels. According to Continental’s assessment, the targeted GHG reductions will be fully, i.e. to 100 %, achieved through combination of the two aforementioned decarbonization levers. The two levers are inextrica- bly linked, and both have a simultaneous effect on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Any further breakdown of the contributions into Scope 1 and Scope 2 is therefore not meaningful. Continental sees the increase in energy efficiency and the expansion of capacities for self-generation of electricity from renewable sources primarily not as direct, but as supporting levers for target achieve- ment. Continental is of the opinion that the implementation of these levers with the speed required to achieve the target is in line with the 1.5°C pathway as set out in the original target setting. The operationalization of these decarbonization levers through the key actions is reflected in the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040, with which Continental is creating a framework for target achievement. Continental’s progress regarding the set emissions reduction target can be derived from the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Progress is measured using the defined metric, which was fully adapted to the ESRS requirements in 2024. In 2024, there were no significant changes to the business model and business activities that could potentially affect the target achievement. In Continental’s opin- ion, progress towards achieving the target by 2024 is in line with the original plans."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 135 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has defined concrete key actions to achieve its Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction target set for 2035 and to further foster the transition to carbon neutrality. Corresponding decarbonization measures are embedded in the op- erational activities and are gradually being developed and imple- mented by the individual legal entities. The decentralized approach pursued leads to a large number of measures that are completed through specific projects with individual completion timelines rang- ing from short-term to long-term. Continental’s climate change mitigation measures cover all types of activities in own operations. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 introduced in 2021 is the in- ternal set of rules for determining the key actions required to achieve the emissions reduction target. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 focuses on the most im- portant levers (see subsection Targets related to climate change) which are further operationalized through concrete actions. Continued purchase of green electricity Continental purchases electricity solely from renewable energy sources. In doing so, Continental makes use of green electricity con- tracts, power purchase agreements and other contractual instru- ments. For volumes of purchased electricity that are not covered by contractual instruments, Continental purchases energy attribute cer- tificates that comply with the specified quality criteria. This key ac- tion is implemented by the respective legal entities in close coopera- tion with the central purchasing and environmental departments who ensure a holistic approach and full coverage of the externally purchased electricity volumes through corresponding instruments. Technological transformation Technological transformation takes place within the responsible le- gal entities supported by central functions (e.g. operations or infra- structure). As part of group sector-specific roadmap implementa- tion programs, suitable concrete measures for the respective loca- tions and production processes, as well as the sequence of their im- plementation at location level are analyzed and decided upon. At the tire plant in Lousado, Portugal, for example, an electric boiler was put into operation in 2024 to generate steam required for the production processes. Gas, which was previously used as an energy source for steam generation, was replaced by green electricity. Similar projects regarding the levers identified for target achieve- ment are implemented at various locations if this is technically and economically feasible. Selection of the projects is part of the gen- eral investment process applying generally applicable criteria for decision-making as well as the allocation of capital. The investment budget is determined as part of financial planning. In the event of a positive investment decision, the necessary financial resources are thus made available for the project. The metrics for the achieved and expected GHG emissions reduc- tions as a result of the implementation of such projects are set out in the tables below. Achieved GHG reduction 2024 Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction achieved, in million tCO2e 0.217 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as the difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the base year of the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 (2021) and the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Expected GHG reduction 2024 Expected Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction, in million tCO2e 0.333 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year and the target value for Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions in 2035 (see subsection Targets related to climate change). - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 136 Capital expenditures and operating expenditures for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change OpEx for key actions 2024 OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 5 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Operating expenditures (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Planned OpEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 28 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Operating expenditures (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets related climate change are considered. CapEx for key actions 2024 CapEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Investments (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Planned CapEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned CapEx key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 13 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Investments (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Interrelation CapEx and OpEx Information on capital expenditures (CapEx) can be found in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The infor- mation refers to capital expenditure in the intangible assets (Note 13), property, plant and equipment (Note 14), leases (Note 15) and investment property (Note 16) presented in the notes to the con- solidated financial statements. Continental does not report any taxonomy-aligned economic activi- ties and consequently no capital expenditure plan in accordance with European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. The CapEx for key actions to implement the targets in connection with climate change mitigation mainly fall under taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure. Operating expenditure in accordance with the Commission Dele- gated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 relate to the total of mainte- nance costs, building refurbishment measures and research and development costs. The key actions for implementing the targets related to climate change are defined differently."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 137 Transition Plan for Climate Change Mitigation Continental’s partially formalized transition plan covers all relevant impacts, risks and opportunities and consists of a combination of ambitions, management approaches, targets, and key actions. Continental’s management approach to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emis- sions, the corresponding target and the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 form the basis for the transition plan for climate change miti- gation in own operations. Furthermore, the management ap- proaches to Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition, are highly important for Continental’s transition towards carbon neutrality. The key elements of the transition plan, such as the target (see sub- section Targets related to climate change), the key actions (see sub- section Key actions for target achievement) and the management approaches (see subsections Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy) have been approved by the Executive Board of the Continental Group. Continental is of the opinion that the reduction target for Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions as one of the key ele- ments of the transition plan is in line with the Paris Agreement and a 1.5°C pathway (see subsection Targets related to climate change). Continental has no knowledge of being exempt from the EU Paris- aligned benchmarks. To achieve the set GHG emission reduction target, Continental has identified two primary decarbonization levers (see subsection Tar- gets related to climate change), which are addressed by the de- fined actions (see subsection Key actions for target achievement). Furthermore, levers for Scope 3 emissions are operationalized by the described management approaches. For a detailed description of the actions and associated metrics that provide information regarding the progress of the implementa- tion of the transition plan, see subsection Key actions for target achievement. As part of the IRO assessment (see subsection Overview of mate- rial impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section), Continental analyzed the potential locked-in GHG emissions in the key assets. The conclusion from the analysis was that, due to their insignificance, they do not jeopardize the achieve- ment of the defined GHG emissions reduction target and do not foster any transition risks. The identified levers for achieving the emissions reduction target are applicable to all assets and are in line with the overarching ambition of achieving carbon neutrality in own operations by 2040. The sustainability strategy and Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 are integral parts of the overall business strategy and play a key role in transitioning to a more sustainable business model. When- ever implementation of the corresponding actions requires sub- stantial financial funding, it is reflected in the financial planning and budgeting processes accordingly. CapEx and OpEx for key actions 2024 Total amount of CapEx and OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 50 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric only covers the key actions and no other elements of the transition plan. - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement targets related to climate change are included. Currently, Continental’s transition plan does not provide for a port- folio transition with the aim of meeting the criteria set out in the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 regarding tax- onomy-aligned economic activities. In addition, Continental is not reporting any taxonomy-aligned economic activities for 2024."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 138 Internal CO2 Pricing System According to Continental’s interpretation of the regulatory require- ments of the ESRS regarding internal CO2 pricing systems, such a mechanism is not used at Continental. To incentivize the transition to carbon neutrality, Continental has created the option for its legal entities to take internal CO2 shadow prices into account as a sup- porting factor in investment decision-making processes. The sys- tem has a non-binding character. The companies decide inde- pendently whether to include the optional CO2 shadow price for certain investment projects as an additional factor for calculating the internal rate of return (IRR) which is the steering-relevant KPI. The optional shadow price is determined based on Continental’s ex- pectations regarding the future development of external CO2 prices. Due to specifics of the non-binding character and subse- quently the limited application scope, estimates on the share of GHG emissions covered by the CO2 pricing system are not repre- sentative. Metrics Related to Climate Change Gross Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions and total GHG emissions Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year (2019) 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Calculated linear reduction rate per year, in % Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in million tCO2e 2.791 — 0.833 — — 0.700 0.500 6.25 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Gross GHG emissions from Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 as shown in the following table are considered. - The following greenhouse gases are covered: carbon dioxide (CO2); methane (CH4); nitrous oxide (N2O); sulfur hexafluoride (SF6); nitrogen trifluoride (NF3); hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); perfluorocarbons (PFCs). - The calculation is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies set out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The emissions from the base year 2019 were recalculated based on organizational changes and adjustments to the definition of the indicator. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 139 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 671,731 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 671,731 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading systems, in % — — 19.4 — — — — — Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 1,424,774 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 1,424,774 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions, in tCO2e — — 161,504 — — — — — Consolidated accounting group, in tCO2e — — 161,504 — — — — — Investees, in tCO2e — — 0 — — — — — Percentage of energy purchased with contractual instruments, in % — — 84.7 — — — — — Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Emissions factors for refrigerants in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2024/573 of the European Parliament and of the Council from February 7, 2024 on fluorinated greenhouse gases are considered. These are based on the IPCC 4 and not on the more recent IPCC 6, which does not result in any significant effects. - Scope 1 comprises emissions from the combustion of energy sources in own processes. Emission factors of IEA Static, GHG Protocol and DEFRA are applied. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 1 emissions of the relevant fully consolidated companies. Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 1 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions trading systems - The EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) and the Shanghai Pilot ETS are considered. - Scope 1 GHG emissions from the entire location that fall under these emissions trading systems are considered. Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Average electricity grid emissions factors by country are applied. These come from IEA Static, GHG Protocol and DEFRA. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 2 location-based emissions of its relevant fully consolidated companies. Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 2 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Gross Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions - Definitions and calculations according to GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (version 2004). - Contract-specific emission factors are applied. - Emissions from steam and district heat are calculated using confirmed emission factors from local energy suppliers. If these factors are not available, location-based emission factors (see Gross Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions) are used. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions – consolidated accounting group - Continental considers Scope 2 location-based emissions of its relevant fully consolidated companies. Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions – investees - Continental has no operational control of investees; therefore, they are not relevant for Scope 2 emissions. Relevant emissions from investees are included in Scope 3. Percentage of energy purchased with contractual instruments - Energy purchased using contractual instruments (on-site PPA, off-site PPA, Green Tariff, Energy Attribute Certificates) is considered. - The specification represents the share of energy purchased with contractual instruments in relation to the total amount of purchased energy with relevance for Scope 2. - The data is collected by the individual company locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 140 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions in tCO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions — — 99,418,244 — — — — — 1. Purchased goods and services — — 14,270,642 — — — — — 2. Capital goods — — 826,610 — — — — — 3. Energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) — — 458,530 — — — — — 4. Upstream transportation and distribution — — 977,819 — — — — — 5. Waste generated in operations — — 32,368 — — — — — 6. Business travel — — 64,428 — — — — — 7. Employee commuting — — 206,684 — — — — — 8. Upstream leased assets — — 0 — — — — — 9. Downstream transportation and distribution — — 304,692 — — — — — 10. Processing of sold products — — 51,558 — — — — — 11. Use of sold products — — 78,510,936 — — — — — 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products — — 3,663,651 — — — — — 13. Downstream leased assets — — 1,603 — — — — — 14. Franchises — — 23,742 — — — — — 15. Investments — — 24,982 — — — — — Overarching definitions and assumptions: - Scope 3 GHG emissions are calculated in alignment with the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standards 2011 and the supplement standards. Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods Total calculated gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions - Total of categories (1) to (15). Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – purchased goods and services - Purchased goods and services relate to the extraction, production and transportation of goods purchased by the company in the reporting year. Only the goods and services relevant for category 1 according to the GHG Protocol are considered, including all upstream emissions (cradle-to-gate). - Emissions for goods are calculated on a weight basis and for services on a cost basis. The emission factors of Sphera Solutions GmbH or internally determined group sector-specific and business area-specific GHG factors are used to calculate the emissions. - For purchased product groups for which not all weight data is available, the missing proportion is extrapolated using the average method. The expenditures for services are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. Within this expenditure-based method, the data is extrapolated for a small share. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – capital goods - Capital goods that are purchased in the reporting year are considered. - The expenditures for capital goods are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. As part of this expenditure-based method, the data for a small share is extrapolated. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scopes 1 and 2) - Energy- and fuel-related activities are defined as extraction, production, transportation, and transportation losses of purchased fuels and energy that are not covered by Scope 1 or Scope 2. - For energy consumption, the specific emission factors from DEFRA are used within the framework of an average data method. - The country-specific power grid emission factors are calculated based on the DEFRA calculation method. For this category, well-to-tank emission factors are considered. - An average transmission loss of 5 % as recommended by DEFRA for steam and district heat is applied. - In the case of renewable electricity, it is assumed that the mix consists of 50 % photovoltaics and 50 % wind power. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream transportation and distribution - Upstream transportation and distribution are defined as the transportation of goods from direct suppliers to the company as well as within the company and to the customer, if paid for by the company and using third-party vehicles and facilities, including emissions from transportation services. - For this category, average data, costs and GHG data from service providers are applied using the distance-based method, with the missing share extrapolated. - Apart from CO2 data from service providers, the emissions for each mode of transport (road, rail, sea, and air) were determined through calculations, whereby a small proportion of the transport modes are estimated. - The basis for calculation includes logistics expenses, weight distance and transport equipment multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH or DEFRA. - The emissions of the ContiTech group sector are primarily calculated based on the GHG data from service providers. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – waste generated in operations - Waste generation is multiplied by specific emission factors from DEFRA using an average data method for different waste categories, only considering emissions associated with landfill sites and incinerators. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – business travel - Travel booking service providers report GHG emissions for business trips. Hotel overnight stays are included as optional data. The various travel options are also considered and calculated. - Some of these external primary data refer to emission factors from DEFRA or vehicle manufacturers. - Business travel that may not have been booked through these service providers is considered by an estimate based on an expert assumption. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – employee commuting - Daily commuting time and modes of transport are based on an external global survey. - For this average-data method, the emissions are calculated on the basis of the estimated commuting distance, effective number of working days and the number of employees together with the DEFRA emission factors."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 141 Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream leased assets - Continental AG is using management control as a consolidation approach. Therefore, there are no Scope 3 emissions allocated to leased assets. These are only reported under Scopes 1 and 2. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – downstream transportation and distribution - Downstream transportation and distribution are defined as emissions from the transportation and distribution of products after the point of sale, including retail and storage. - The logistics paid for by the customers are extrapolated from Continental’s own outbound logistics emissions from “Upstream transportation and distribution”, based on the share of selfpickers determined by total sales or product weight. - The emission factors from the “Upstream transportation and distribution” category are applied. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – processing of products sold - Processing of sold products covers the processing of intermediate products sold in the reporting year to downstream companies. - For the Automotive and ContiTech group sectors, the calculation only considers emissions that are related to the material handling and general assembly stages of Continental products. Taking the product weight sold and the average vehicle weight based on market data, a virtual vehicle quantity is modeled in this average-data method. This virtual vehicle quantity is multiplied by the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions per vehicle manufactured by selected automotive manufacturers. - The calculation model used in the Tires group sector considers the energy consumption per tire assembly, which was determined by measurements and calculations for passenger car and truck tires in various processing steps. - The calculation relates exclusively to Continental’s vehicle business. The industrial business within the ContiTech group sector and the trading business of the Tires and Automotive group sectors are not included, as these emissions are not considered relevant in terms of their magnitude. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – use of sold products - This category includes the indirect emissions from the ContiTech and Tires group sectors during the use phase, which are optional to be reported according to the GHG Protocol. For the Automotive group sector, some products, particularly electronic products, consume electricity during their use phase and could be classified as direct emissions from the use phase. For this category, tank-to-wheel emission factors are used. - Indirect emissions in the retail business of the Automotive group sector and parts of the specialty tires, non-tire products and products in the retail business of Tires group sector as well as the industrial business of the ContiTech group sector, except for the conveyor belt business, are not included in the calculation. - For the Automotive and ContiTech group sectors, the calculation method is based on the expected product service life as stated by selected automotive manufacturers and the sold product weight, applying average-data methods with emission factors from ICCT and DEFRA. - To calculate ContiTech group sector conveyor belt use phase emissions, an average belt weight, related idle power load, belt runtime per year and lifetime are assessed based on internal data and expert assessments. - The Tires group sector calculation model is based on tire-industry aligned “Product Category Rules” (PCR). The energy consumption of sold tires is calculated by considering rolling resistance and acceleration resistance. - Furthermore, fuel-specific emission factors from DEFRA, which are based on the PCR powertrain mix in the respective markets, are used for the Tires group sector. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – end-of-life treatment of sold products - Waste disposal and treatment of sold products at the end of their life cycle are considered. - The weight of the sold products is multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH in accordance with the disposal and recycling type. In the absence of weight information for individual product groups, emissions are calculated based on information on purchased goods. - Internal expert assessments and industrial data are used in the classification of the disposal and recycling type. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – downstream leased assets - Downstream leased assets are defined as the operation of assets owned by Conti- nental that are leased to other companies during the reporting year, excluding those that are included in the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reported by the lessor. - This category is calculated using an average-data method. - The size of the leased assets is multiplied by the country- and asset-specific emission factors from PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials). - The leased equipment (e.g. machinery) are multiplied by a specific emission factor from DEFRA. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – franchises - Using an average-data method, the number of franchise locations is multiplied by the internally determined energy consumption and the specific emission factors from DEFRA. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – investments - For this category, emissions are calculated using an average-data method. - The sales of at-equity-accounted investees in financial reporting are multiplied by the portion of Continental’s financial contribution with own GHG emissions (calculated based on Continental’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) per euro of sales. - In cases where sales figures are not available, GHG emissions are extrapolated based on the number of reporting companies."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 142 Total GHG emissions, in t CO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total location-based GHG emissions — — 101,514,749 — — — — — Total market-based GHG emissions — — 100,251,479 — — — — — Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total location-based GHG emissions include the GHG emissions from Scope 1, location-based Scope 2, and Scope 3. - The total market-based GHG emissions are composed of Scope 1, market-based Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. - The figures are calculated in accordance with the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Scope 3 emissions using primary data 2024 Share of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data, in % 0.01 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Only emissions for which primary data were available in the form of an externally verified product carbon footprint are considered. - Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated based on primary data are considered. These are set in relation to the total Scope 3 GHG emissions. Biogenic CO2 emissions 2024 Biogenic direct emissions not included in Scope 1, in million tCO2e 0.037 Biogenic location-based indirect emissions not included in Scope 2, in million tCO2e 0.042 Biogenic market-based indirect emissions not included in Scope 2, in million tCO2e 0.000 Biogenic indirect emissions not included in Scope 3, in million tCO2e 0.859 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Biogenic Scope 1 emissions - Emissions from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass, including solid biomass, biomethane, liquid biofuels and green hydrogen, are considered. - The base data for the calculation of biogenic Scope 1 emissions are considered in accordance with the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. In contrast, this metric only considers CO2 emissions that are not included in Scope 1 GHG emissions. - Emission factors from DEFRA are used for the calculation. Biogenic emissions in relation to location-based and market-based Scope 2 emissions - Continental only considers emissions from electricity, steam, and district heat under market-based Scope 2 emissions to be biogenic if sufficient evidence is available. - Biogenic location-based Scope 2 emissions are modeled and extrapolated based on electricity purchases and external data sources (German Association of the Automotive Industry, VDA) for the specific share of biomass and biogas in the electricity mix. - The figures are calculated in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Biogenic Scope 3 emissions - Biogenic emissions resulting from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass are considered, including organic non-fossil material of biological origin, biofuels, biogenic gases and biogenic waste. Therefore, only emissions of the category Scope 3 – End-of-life treatment of sold products – are considered, through incineration of biogenic substances in the products. - All other Scope 3 categories according to the GHG Protocol have not been included in the calculation for biogenic Scope 3 emissions. - Scope 3 emissions are calculated based on the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 3 GHG emissions. - The calculation is based on the purchased quantity of natural rubber according to Scope 3 category 1 and is equivalent to the quantities from Scope 3 category 12. The proportion of biogenic CO2 emissions is calculated based on calculated factors for material disposal through incineration and material proportions of biological origin in the products."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 140 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions in tCO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions — — 99,418,244 — — — — — 1. Purchased goods and services — — 14,270,642 — — — — — 2. Capital goods — — 826,610 — — — — — 3. Energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) — — 458,530 — — — — — 4. Upstream transportation and distribution — — 977,819 — — — — — 5. Waste generated in operations — — 32,368 — — — — — 6. Business travel — — 64,428 — — — — — 7. Employee commuting — — 206,684 — — — — — 8. Upstream leased assets — — 0 — — — — — 9. Downstream transportation and distribution — — 304,692 — — — — — 10. Processing of sold products — — 51,558 — — — — — 11. Use of sold products — — 78,510,936 — — — — — 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products — — 3,663,651 — — — — — 13. Downstream leased assets — — 1,603 — — — — — 14. Franchises — — 23,742 — — — — — 15. Investments — — 24,982 — — — — — Overarching definitions and assumptions: - Scope 3 GHG emissions are calculated in alignment with the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standards 2011 and the supplement standards. Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods Total calculated gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions - Total of categories (1) to (15). Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – purchased goods and services - Purchased goods and services relate to the extraction, production and transportation of goods purchased by the company in the reporting year. Only the goods and services relevant for category 1 according to the GHG Protocol are considered, including all upstream emissions (cradle-to-gate). - Emissions for goods are calculated on a weight basis and for services on a cost basis. The emission factors of Sphera Solutions GmbH or internally determined group sector-specific and business area-specific GHG factors are used to calculate the emissions. - For purchased product groups for which not all weight data is available, the missing proportion is extrapolated using the average method. The expenditures for services are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. Within this expenditure-based method, the data is extrapolated for a small share. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – capital goods - Capital goods that are purchased in the reporting year are considered. - The expenditures for capital goods are multiplied either by the specific emission factors from DEFRA or by an internally determined emission factor. As part of this expenditure-based method, the data for a small share is extrapolated. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – energy and fuel-related activities (not included in Scopes 1 and 2) - Energy- and fuel-related activities are defined as extraction, production, transportation, and transportation losses of purchased fuels and energy that are not covered by Scope 1 or Scope 2. - For energy consumption, the specific emission factors from DEFRA are used within the framework of an average data method. - The country-specific power grid emission factors are calculated based on the DEFRA calculation method. For this category, well-to-tank emission factors are considered. - An average transmission loss of 5 % as recommended by DEFRA for steam and district heat is applied. - In the case of renewable electricity, it is assumed that the mix consists of 50 % photovoltaics and 50 % wind power. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream transportation and distribution - Upstream transportation and distribution are defined as the transportation of goods from direct suppliers to the company as well as within the company and to the customer, if paid for by the company and using third-party vehicles and facilities, including emissions from transportation services. - For this category, average data, costs and GHG data from service providers are applied using the distance-based method, with the missing share extrapolated. - Apart from CO2 data from service providers, the emissions for each mode of transport (road, rail, sea, and air) were determined through calculations, whereby a small proportion of the transport modes are estimated. - The basis for calculation includes logistics expenses, weight distance and transport equipment multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH or DEFRA. - The emissions of the ContiTech group sector are primarily calculated based on the GHG data from service providers. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – waste generated in operations - Waste generation is multiplied by specific emission factors from DEFRA using an average data method for different waste categories, only considering emissions associated with landfill sites and incinerators. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – business travel - Travel booking service providers report GHG emissions for business trips. Hotel overnight stays are included as optional data. The various travel options are also considered and calculated. - Some of these external primary data refer to emission factors from DEFRA or vehicle manufacturers. - Business travel that may not have been booked through these service providers is considered by an estimate based on an expert assumption. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – employee commuting - Daily commuting time and modes of transport are based on an external global survey. - For this average-data method, the emissions are calculated on the basis of the estimated commuting distance, effective number of working days and the number of employees together with the DEFRA emission factors."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 141 Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – upstream leased assets - Continental AG is using management control as a consolidation approach. Therefore, there are no Scope 3 emissions allocated to leased assets. These are only reported under Scopes 1 and 2. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – downstream transportation and distribution - Downstream transportation and distribution are defined as emissions from the transportation and distribution of products after the point of sale, including retail and storage. - The logistics paid for by the customers are extrapolated from Continental’s own outbound logistics emissions from “Upstream transportation and distribution”, based on the share of selfpickers determined by total sales or product weight. - The emission factors from the “Upstream transportation and distribution” category are applied. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – processing of products sold - Processing of sold products covers the processing of intermediate products sold in the reporting year to downstream companies. - For the Automotive and ContiTech group sectors, the calculation only considers emissions that are related to the material handling and general assembly stages of Continental products. Taking the product weight sold and the average vehicle weight based on market data, a virtual vehicle quantity is modeled in this average-data method. This virtual vehicle quantity is multiplied by the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions per vehicle manufactured by selected automotive manufacturers. - The calculation model used in the Tires group sector considers the energy consumption per tire assembly, which was determined by measurements and calculations for passenger car and truck tires in various processing steps. - The calculation relates exclusively to Continental’s vehicle business. The industrial business within the ContiTech group sector and the trading business of the Tires and Automotive group sectors are not included, as these emissions are not considered relevant in terms of their magnitude. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – use of sold products - This category includes the indirect emissions from the ContiTech and Tires group sectors during the use phase, which are optional to be reported according to the GHG Protocol. For the Automotive group sector, some products, particularly electronic products, consume electricity during their use phase and could be classified as direct emissions from the use phase. For this category, tank-to-wheel emission factors are used. - Indirect emissions in the retail business of the Automotive group sector and parts of the specialty tires, non-tire products and products in the retail business of Tires group sector as well as the industrial business of the ContiTech group sector, except for the conveyor belt business, are not included in the calculation. - For the Automotive and ContiTech group sectors, the calculation method is based on the expected product service life as stated by selected automotive manufacturers and the sold product weight, applying average-data methods with emission factors from ICCT and DEFRA. - To calculate ContiTech group sector conveyor belt use phase emissions, an average belt weight, related idle power load, belt runtime per year and lifetime are assessed based on internal data and expert assessments. - The Tires group sector calculation model is based on tire-industry aligned “Product Category Rules” (PCR). The energy consumption of sold tires is calculated by considering rolling resistance and acceleration resistance. - Furthermore, fuel-specific emission factors from DEFRA, which are based on the PCR powertrain mix in the respective markets, are used for the Tires group sector. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – end-of-life treatment of sold products - Waste disposal and treatment of sold products at the end of their life cycle are considered. - The weight of the sold products is multiplied by the specific emission factors from Sphera Solutions GmbH in accordance with the disposal and recycling type. In the absence of weight information for individual product groups, emissions are calculated based on information on purchased goods. - Internal expert assessments and industrial data are used in the classification of the disposal and recycling type. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – downstream leased assets - Downstream leased assets are defined as the operation of assets owned by Conti- nental that are leased to other companies during the reporting year, excluding those that are included in the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reported by the lessor. - This category is calculated using an average-data method. - The size of the leased assets is multiplied by the country- and asset-specific emission factors from PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials). - The leased equipment (e.g. machinery) are multiplied by a specific emission factor from DEFRA. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – franchises - Using an average-data method, the number of franchise locations is multiplied by the internally determined energy consumption and the specific emission factors from DEFRA. Calculated indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions – investments - For this category, emissions are calculated using an average-data method. - The sales of at-equity-accounted investees in financial reporting are multiplied by the portion of Continental’s financial contribution with own GHG emissions (calculated based on Continental’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) per euro of sales. - In cases where sales figures are not available, GHG emissions are extrapolated based on the number of reporting companies."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 142 Total GHG emissions, in t CO2e Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year 2023 2024 ∆ PY in % 2025 2030 2035 Reduction rate (Annual % target / Base year) Total location-based GHG emissions — — 101,514,749 — — — — — Total market-based GHG emissions — — 100,251,479 — — — — — Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total location-based GHG emissions include the GHG emissions from Scope 1, location-based Scope 2, and Scope 3. - The total market-based GHG emissions are composed of Scope 1, market-based Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. - The figures are calculated in accordance with the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Scope 3 emissions using primary data 2024 Share of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data, in % 0.01 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Only emissions for which primary data were available in the form of an externally verified product carbon footprint are considered. - Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated based on primary data are considered. These are set in relation to the total Scope 3 GHG emissions. Biogenic CO2 emissions 2024 Biogenic direct emissions not included in Scope 1, in million tCO2e 0.037 Biogenic location-based indirect emissions not included in Scope 2, in million tCO2e 0.042 Biogenic market-based indirect emissions not included in Scope 2, in million tCO2e 0.000 Biogenic indirect emissions not included in Scope 3, in million tCO2e 0.859 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Biogenic Scope 1 emissions - Emissions from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass, including solid biomass, biomethane, liquid biofuels and green hydrogen, are considered. - The base data for the calculation of biogenic Scope 1 emissions are considered in accordance with the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. In contrast, this metric only considers CO2 emissions that are not included in Scope 1 GHG emissions. - Emission factors from DEFRA are used for the calculation. Biogenic emissions in relation to location-based and market-based Scope 2 emissions - Continental only considers emissions from electricity, steam, and district heat under market-based Scope 2 emissions to be biogenic if sufficient evidence is available. - Biogenic location-based Scope 2 emissions are modeled and extrapolated based on electricity purchases and external data sources (German Association of the Automotive Industry, VDA) for the specific share of biomass and biogas in the electricity mix. - The figures are calculated in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Biogenic Scope 3 emissions - Biogenic emissions resulting from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass are considered, including organic non-fossil material of biological origin, biofuels, biogenic gases and biogenic waste. Therefore, only emissions of the category Scope 3 – End-of-life treatment of sold products – are considered, through incineration of biogenic substances in the products. - All other Scope 3 categories according to the GHG Protocol have not been included in the calculation for biogenic Scope 3 emissions. - Scope 3 emissions are calculated based on the assumptions and methods lined out in the corresponding table for Scope 3 GHG emissions. - The calculation is based on the purchased quantity of natural rubber according to Scope 3 category 1 and is equivalent to the quantities from Scope 3 category 12. The proportion of biogenic CO2 emissions is calculated based on calculated factors for material disposal through incineration and material proportions of biological origin in the products."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 143 GHG emissions intensity Location-based GHG emissions intensity 2024 Intensity of location-based GHG emissions, in million tCO2e / € millions 0.003 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total location-based GHG emissions are divided by the sales revenue presented in the consolidated financial statements. - The calculation of the total GHG emissions is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies set out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Market-based GHG emissions intensity 2024 Intensity of market-based GHG emissions, in million tCO2e / € millions 0.003 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total market-based GHG emissions are divided by the sales revenue presented in the consolidated financial statements. - The calculation of the total GHG emissions is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies lined out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Information on sales (denominator in the calculation of the intensity of GHG emissions) can be found in the consolidated financial state- ments in the Consolidated statement of income section and in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix 2024 (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products, in MWh 82,476 (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products, in MWh 129,421 (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas, in MWh 2,840,436 (4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources, in MWh 61,634 (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources, in MWh 754,333 (6) Total energy consumption from fossil sources, in MWh 3,868,301 (7) Total energy consumption from nuclear sources, in MWh 0 (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources, in MWh 110,068 (9) Energy consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from renewable sources, in MWh 4,219,044 (10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy, in MWh 26,652 (11) Total energy consumption from renewable sources, in MWh 4,355,765 (12) Total energy consumption, in MWh 8,224,066 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Overarching information for positions (1) – (12) - If required, conversion factors are used to convert fuel consumption into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual company locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. - In addition, the December consumption is calculated for individual locations if the necessary data or receipts were not yet available at the time of reporting. (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products - Includes the consumption of coal and lignite (brown coal). (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products - Includes the consumption of diesel, gasoil, gasoline and heating oil. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas - Includes the consumption of natural gas. (4) Consumption of fuels from other fossil sources - Includes the consumption of liquified petroleum gas (LPG), propane and liquid butane. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources - Includes the consumption of purchased district heat and steam from fossil sources. - Energy sources are allocated using the market-based method. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (6) Total energy consumption from fossil sources - Total of positions (1) to (5). (7) Total energy consumption from nuclear sources - Includes energy consumption from nuclear sources. - The energy source is allocated using the market-based method. (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources - Includes the consumption of biomass, biofuels, biomethane and green hydrogen. (9) Energy consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from renewable sources - Contains the purchased electricity mix, electricity from renewable sources with energy attribute certificates (off-site PPA, on-site PPA, green tariff), purchased steam and district heat from renewable sources. - The calculation is made using the market-based method. (10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy - Includes the consumption of self-generated electricity from renewable sources. (11) Total energy consumption from renewable sources - Total of positions (8) to (10). (12) Total energy consumption - Calculated as the total of positions (6), (7) and (11)."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 144 Coverage of energy management systems 2024 Energy management system certification (ISO 50001) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 42 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications were considered, as well as ongoing recertifications, if the achievement of recertification is considered highly probable. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are excluded from the coverage rate. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own employees working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific. Non-renewable energy production 2024 Non-renewable energy production, in MWh 2,760,454 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the generation of steam from non-renewable sources in boiler houses as well as self-generated electricity from fossil sources. - The amount of steam produced in boiler houses is calculated based on the total consumption of natural gas at the respective location minus the direct combustion of natural gas based on annual average values. - If required, conversion factors are used to convert energy production into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Renewable energy production 2024 Renewable energy production, in MWh 26,652 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the production of electricity from renewable sources such as photovoltaics. - If required, conversion factors are used to convert energy production into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual locations. Disclosures relating to activities in high climate impact sectors Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors, in MWh / € millions 214 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is defined as the total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors divided by the sales from activities in high climate impact sectors. - Data on energy consumption is collected in accordance with the information in the table on energy consumption and energy mix. Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors, in MWh 8,144,095 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Activities in the NACE code sectors A to H and L that generate sales are considered activities in high climate impact sectors. - Includes total energy consumption from fossil and renewable sources attributable to activities in high climate impact sectors. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors, in € millions 38,053 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The sales presented in the consolidated financial statements are shown minus the sales from non-climate-intensive activities. Activities in the NACE code sectors A to H and L that result in sales are considered to be activities in high climate impact sectors, and are used for the calculation. Information on sales (denominator in the calculation of the intensity of GHG emissions) can be found in the consolidated financial state- ments in the Consolidated statement of income section and in Note 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 133 Targets Related to Climate Change Following its sustainability ambition, Continental has set a public sus- tainability target (PST) related to climate change that aims at the re- duction of Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to an absolute value of 0.5 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent (million tCO2e) by 2035. The interim target for 2030 is to reduce Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions to 0.7 million tCO2e. Both the main and the interim target are set as absolute values and measured in millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalents (million tCO2e). The formalized target commitment to reduce Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions is a key element of the corresponding management approach to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and the subsequent key actions. The transition towards and, in the end, the achievement of the target allows Continental to mitigate negative im- pacts and risks connected to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. The target covers the combined Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. In view of the relatively low amount of remaining mar- ket-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (see subsection Key actions for tar- get achievement), the reduction of Scope 1 GHG emissions is a partic- ular focus and will contribute the major share to the GHG emissions reductions. The target value was defined in alignment with the guid- ance of the GHG Protocol on calculating Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions and includes the greenhouse gases de- scribed in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Consequently, the greenhouse gases cov- ered by the target and considered in the metrics are consistent with the limits of the greenhouse gas inventory. The scope of the main and interim targets extends to the Continental Group’s own operations. The original target trajectory was developed using the base year 2019. The originally publicly reported baseline value amounted to 3.2 million tCO2e for Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The chosen base year is representative in terms of external factors af- fecting the energy consumption and hence, GHG emissions. Due to a relevant change to the company structure in 2021 as well as the in- troduction of the market-based approach for the reporting of Scope 2 GHG emissions, a comparable reference value for the base year 2019 was re-modeled ex-post, and is estimated to around 2.8 million tCO2e. Continental points out that there are uncertainties connected to the data model. In 2024, by decision of the Sustainabil- ity Steering Committee, the target was reconfirmed without changes to the target value, target pathway or target year. The baseline values for the reconfirmed target can be seen in the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” The metric com- plies with the ESRS requirements for the calculation of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Continental is of the opinion that the set Scope 1 and Scope 2 target is based on scientific evidence. It should be noted that relevant uncer- tainty remains regarding the breakdown of the global reduction path- way in line with the 1.5°C scenario down to the company level. Greater uncertainties are also associated with the allocation of the CO2 budgets to the various industrial sectors and the extent to which of so-called negative emissions (CO2 removals) can be used if the 1.5°C path is exceeded to a limited extent. Continental’s climate target was reviewed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2020, using the original base year 2019 as a benchmark. A re-validation by the SBTi did not take place. Based on the Continental’s ambition to achieve carbon neutrality in own operations by 2040 at the latest and on the applied methodology, linear derivations of the required emis- sions values for the year 2030 were validated and confirmed as being compliant with the Paris Agreement. Considering the modeled refer- ence value and the updated pathway, Continental views its emissions reduction target to be still in line with the level of ambition of the origi- nal reduction pathway. The target setting followed the methodology of an absolute reduction as described by SBTi in the framework “Foundations of Science-based Target Setting (Version 1.0)”, including the defined underlying climate and policy scenarios. The derivation was based on a cross-sector emissions pathway. No anticipated external developments and their impact on green- house gas emissions were explicitly considered when setting the tar- get. Significant changes to Continental’s company structure, product portfolio or production volumes might lead to the adjustment of the target values. In 2024, no changes were made to the target values. When setting the target, Continental considered the interests of differ- ent stakeholders (such as customers, authorities), e.g. by applying the SBTi methodology."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 134 To reach the target level of GHG emissions, Continental has identified two primary decarbonization levers. › Continued purchase of green electricity: Continental purchases electricity exclusively from renewable energy sources. Various contractual instruments are used for this purpose, which are listed in the corresponding metrics. Continuation of this approach allows the avoidance of market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions from electricity consumption. › Technological transformation: This lever is closely linked to the operational processes and is formalized in the technology trans- formation roadmaps of the individual group sectors. It consists primarily of the sub-levers such as the phase-out of coal, the gradual phase-out of other fossil fuels, the switch to biofuels and biomass as well as increased electrification of production pro- cesses that were previously run on fossil fuels. According to Continental’s assessment, the targeted GHG reductions will be fully, i.e. to 100 %, achieved through combination of the two aforementioned decarbonization levers. The two levers are inextrica- bly linked, and both have a simultaneous effect on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Any further breakdown of the contributions into Scope 1 and Scope 2 is therefore not meaningful. Continental sees the increase in energy efficiency and the expansion of capacities for self-generation of electricity from renewable sources primarily not as direct, but as supporting levers for target achieve- ment. Continental is of the opinion that the implementation of these levers with the speed required to achieve the target is in line with the 1.5°C pathway as set out in the original target setting. The operationalization of these decarbonization levers through the key actions is reflected in the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040, with which Continental is creating a framework for target achievement. Continental’s progress regarding the set emissions reduction target can be derived from the metric “Combined own Scope 1 and market- based Scope 2 GHG emissions.” Progress is measured using the defined metric, which was fully adapted to the ESRS requirements in 2024. In 2024, there were no significant changes to the business model and business activities that could potentially affect the target achievement. In Continental’s opin- ion, progress towards achieving the target by 2024 is in line with the original plans."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 135 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has defined concrete key actions to achieve its Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction target set for 2035 and to further foster the transition to carbon neutrality. Corresponding decarbonization measures are embedded in the op- erational activities and are gradually being developed and imple- mented by the individual legal entities. The decentralized approach pursued leads to a large number of measures that are completed through specific projects with individual completion timelines rang- ing from short-term to long-term. Continental’s climate change mitigation measures cover all types of activities in own operations. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 introduced in 2021 is the in- ternal set of rules for determining the key actions required to achieve the emissions reduction target. The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 focuses on the most im- portant levers (see subsection Targets related to climate change) which are further operationalized through concrete actions. Continued purchase of green electricity Continental purchases electricity solely from renewable energy sources. In doing so, Continental makes use of green electricity con- tracts, power purchase agreements and other contractual instru- ments. For volumes of purchased electricity that are not covered by contractual instruments, Continental purchases energy attribute cer- tificates that comply with the specified quality criteria. This key ac- tion is implemented by the respective legal entities in close coopera- tion with the central purchasing and environmental departments who ensure a holistic approach and full coverage of the externally purchased electricity volumes through corresponding instruments. Technological transformation Technological transformation takes place within the responsible le- gal entities supported by central functions (e.g. operations or infra- structure). As part of group sector-specific roadmap implementa- tion programs, suitable concrete measures for the respective loca- tions and production processes, as well as the sequence of their im- plementation at location level are analyzed and decided upon. At the tire plant in Lousado, Portugal, for example, an electric boiler was put into operation in 2024 to generate steam required for the production processes. Gas, which was previously used as an energy source for steam generation, was replaced by green electricity. Similar projects regarding the levers identified for target achieve- ment are implemented at various locations if this is technically and economically feasible. Selection of the projects is part of the gen- eral investment process applying generally applicable criteria for decision-making as well as the allocation of capital. The investment budget is determined as part of financial planning. In the event of a positive investment decision, the necessary financial resources are thus made available for the project. The metrics for the achieved and expected GHG emissions reduc- tions as a result of the implementation of such projects are set out in the tables below. Achieved GHG reduction 2024 Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction achieved, in million tCO2e 0.217 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as the difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the base year of the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 (2021) and the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Expected GHG reduction 2024 Expected Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG reduction, in million tCO2e 0.333 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is calculated as difference between the Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions at the end of the reporting year and the target value for Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions in 2035 (see subsection Targets related to climate change). - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 136 Capital expenditures and operating expenditures for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change OpEx for key actions 2024 OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 5 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Operating expenditures (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Planned OpEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 28 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Operating expenditures (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets related climate change are considered. CapEx for key actions 2024 CapEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Investments (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Planned CapEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned CapEx key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 13 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Investments (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change are considered. Interrelation CapEx and OpEx Information on capital expenditures (CapEx) can be found in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The infor- mation refers to capital expenditure in the intangible assets (Note 13), property, plant and equipment (Note 14), leases (Note 15) and investment property (Note 16) presented in the notes to the con- solidated financial statements. Continental does not report any taxonomy-aligned economic activi- ties and consequently no capital expenditure plan in accordance with European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. The CapEx for key actions to implement the targets in connection with climate change mitigation mainly fall under taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure. Operating expenditure in accordance with the Commission Dele- gated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 relate to the total of mainte- nance costs, building refurbishment measures and research and development costs. The key actions for implementing the targets related to climate change are defined differently."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 137 Transition Plan for Climate Change Mitigation Continental’s partially formalized transition plan covers all relevant impacts, risks and opportunities and consists of a combination of ambitions, management approaches, targets, and key actions. Continental’s management approach to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emis- sions, the corresponding target and the Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 form the basis for the transition plan for climate change miti- gation in own operations. Furthermore, the management ap- proaches to Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition, are highly important for Continental’s transition towards carbon neutrality. The key elements of the transition plan, such as the target (see sub- section Targets related to climate change), the key actions (see sub- section Key actions for target achievement) and the management approaches (see subsections Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy) have been approved by the Executive Board of the Continental Group. Continental is of the opinion that the reduction target for Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions as one of the key ele- ments of the transition plan is in line with the Paris Agreement and a 1.5°C pathway (see subsection Targets related to climate change). Continental has no knowledge of being exempt from the EU Paris- aligned benchmarks. To achieve the set GHG emission reduction target, Continental has identified two primary decarbonization levers (see subsection Tar- gets related to climate change), which are addressed by the de- fined actions (see subsection Key actions for target achievement). Furthermore, levers for Scope 3 emissions are operationalized by the described management approaches. For a detailed description of the actions and associated metrics that provide information regarding the progress of the implementa- tion of the transition plan, see subsection Key actions for target achievement. As part of the IRO assessment (see subsection Overview of mate- rial impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section), Continental analyzed the potential locked-in GHG emissions in the key assets. The conclusion from the analysis was that, due to their insignificance, they do not jeopardize the achieve- ment of the defined GHG emissions reduction target and do not foster any transition risks. The identified levers for achieving the emissions reduction target are applicable to all assets and are in line with the overarching ambition of achieving carbon neutrality in own operations by 2040. The sustainability strategy and Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 are integral parts of the overall business strategy and play a key role in transitioning to a more sustainable business model. When- ever implementation of the corresponding actions requires sub- stantial financial funding, it is reflected in the financial planning and budgeting processes accordingly. CapEx and OpEx for key actions 2024 Total amount of CapEx and OpEx for key actions to implement the targets related to climate change, in € millions 50 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric only covers the key actions and no other elements of the transition plan. - The Decarbonization Roadmap 2040 covers Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. - Data is collected at the level of the key actions. Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement targets related to climate change are included. Currently, Continental’s transition plan does not provide for a port- folio transition with the aim of meeting the criteria set out in the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 regarding tax- onomy-aligned economic activities. In addition, Continental is not reporting any taxonomy-aligned economic activities for 2024."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 143 GHG emissions intensity Location-based GHG emissions intensity 2024 Intensity of location-based GHG emissions, in million tCO2e / € millions 0.003 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total location-based GHG emissions are divided by the sales revenue presented in the consolidated financial statements. - The calculation of the total GHG emissions is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies set out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Market-based GHG emissions intensity 2024 Intensity of market-based GHG emissions, in million tCO2e / € millions 0.003 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total market-based GHG emissions are divided by the sales revenue presented in the consolidated financial statements. - The calculation of the total GHG emissions is performed in accordance with the assumptions and methodologies lined out in the corresponding tables for Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as Scope 3 GHG emissions. Information on sales (denominator in the calculation of the intensity of GHG emissions) can be found in the consolidated financial state- ments in the Consolidated statement of income section and in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix 2024 (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products, in MWh 82,476 (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products, in MWh 129,421 (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas, in MWh 2,840,436 (4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources, in MWh 61,634 (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources, in MWh 754,333 (6) Total energy consumption from fossil sources, in MWh 3,868,301 (7) Total energy consumption from nuclear sources, in MWh 0 (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources, in MWh 110,068 (9) Energy consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from renewable sources, in MWh 4,219,044 (10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy, in MWh 26,652 (11) Total energy consumption from renewable sources, in MWh 4,355,765 (12) Total energy consumption, in MWh 8,224,066 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Overarching information for positions (1) – (12) - If required, conversion factors are used to convert fuel consumption into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual company locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. - In addition, the December consumption is calculated for individual locations if the necessary data or receipts were not yet available at the time of reporting. (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products - Includes the consumption of coal and lignite (brown coal). (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products - Includes the consumption of diesel, gasoil, gasoline and heating oil. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas - Includes the consumption of natural gas. (4) Consumption of fuels from other fossil sources - Includes the consumption of liquified petroleum gas (LPG), propane and liquid butane. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources - Includes the consumption of purchased district heat and steam from fossil sources. - Energy sources are allocated using the market-based method. - The energy consumption of company vehicles worldwide is modeled and uses the energy consumption of German company vehicles as a benchmark. (6) Total energy consumption from fossil sources - Total of positions (1) to (5). (7) Total energy consumption from nuclear sources - Includes energy consumption from nuclear sources. - The energy source is allocated using the market-based method. (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources - Includes the consumption of biomass, biofuels, biomethane and green hydrogen. (9) Energy consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from renewable sources - Contains the purchased electricity mix, electricity from renewable sources with energy attribute certificates (off-site PPA, on-site PPA, green tariff), purchased steam and district heat from renewable sources. - The calculation is made using the market-based method. (10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy - Includes the consumption of self-generated electricity from renewable sources. (11) Total energy consumption from renewable sources - Total of positions (8) to (10). (12) Total energy consumption - Calculated as the total of positions (6), (7) and (11)."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 144 Coverage of energy management systems 2024 Energy management system certification (ISO 50001) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 42 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications were considered, as well as ongoing recertifications, if the achievement of recertification is considered highly probable. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are excluded from the coverage rate. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own employees working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific. Non-renewable energy production 2024 Non-renewable energy production, in MWh 2,760,454 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the generation of steam from non-renewable sources in boiler houses as well as self-generated electricity from fossil sources. - The amount of steam produced in boiler houses is calculated based on the total consumption of natural gas at the respective location minus the direct combustion of natural gas based on annual average values. - If required, conversion factors are used to convert energy production into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Renewable energy production 2024 Renewable energy production, in MWh 26,652 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the production of electricity from renewable sources such as photovoltaics. - If required, conversion factors are used to convert energy production into MWh. - The data is collected by the individual locations. Disclosures relating to activities in high climate impact sectors Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors, in MWh / € millions 214 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The metric is defined as the total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors divided by the sales from activities in high climate impact sectors. - Data on energy consumption is collected in accordance with the information in the table on energy consumption and energy mix. Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors, in MWh 8,144,095 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Activities in the NACE code sectors A to H and L that generate sales are considered activities in high climate impact sectors. - Includes total energy consumption from fossil and renewable sources attributable to activities in high climate impact sectors. - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors 2024 Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors, in € millions 38,053 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The sales presented in the consolidated financial statements are shown minus the sales from non-climate-intensive activities. Activities in the NACE code sectors A to H and L that result in sales are considered to be activities in high climate impact sectors, and are used for the calculation. Information on sales (denominator in the calculation of the intensity of GHG emissions) can be found in the consolidated financial state- ments in the Consolidated statement of income section and in Note 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 145 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through CO2 credits The disclosures on the removal, reduction, and storage of GHG emissions in accordance with ESRS by means of CO2 credits do not apply to Continental in this fiscal year. As part of our immediate cli- mate change mitigation program Net|Zero|Now, we offer customers and Continental’s group sectors an additional component to sup- port their respective climate strategies. The program is both offered externally and used internally, e.g. for events. Continental is working with partners on certified ecosystem restoration, especially on re- forestation projects, to remove CO2 from the atmosphere and thereby ease the global CO2 budget through CO2 removals. The de- fined CO2 removals are calculated individually within the group sec- tors. The amount of negative emissions used under Net|Zero|Now is determined and documented accordingly within the group sec- tors. Continental has purchased a contingent of certified projects, which is gradually being utilized. A systematic process is then used at Group level to ensure that the corresponding number of certifi- cates issued, canceled, and thus retired are available for the quan- tity used by the group sectors in the respective fiscal year and that these are not used more than once in the internal allocation across fiscal years and group sectors. Purchased CO2 credits originate from projects certified against internationally approved standards (Gold Standard, VCS, Plan Vivo). Moreover, Continental ensures that it finances projects in different geographic areas. In addition, through questionnaires related to a specific project, we ensure that the CO2 credits meet internal quality criteria. The credits used within the framework of Net|Zero|Now program were procured in previous years and canceled in external registers at the time of purchase. No further purchases, including cancela- tion, were made in external registers in the fiscal 2024, and no spe- cific purchases or cancelations were planned as at December 31, 2024. GHG removals as part of the Net|Zero|Now program 2024 Total used GHG removals from climate change mitigation projects within the Net|Zero|Now program, in million tCO2e 0.006 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Continental’s Net|Zero|Now program allows its business partners to increase their contribution in the course of the transition to a climate-friendly economy. When purchasing Continental’s goods, the customers can opt to participate in the program. If they do so, purchased CO2 credits from removal projects are deemed as consumed and become unavailable for other purposes. - CO2 credits from projects that have been consumed as part of the Net|Zero|Now program in the reporting year are included. - One CO2 credit corresponds to 1 metric ton of CO2e. - The metric is entity-specific. Emission-free mobility and industries Allocated business with zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles 2024 Allocated business with zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles, in € millions 2,066 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The allocated business with zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles comprises all business with products for vehicles transporting goods and people. - The business can be allocated via the vehicle manufacturer, the vehicle platform or the product specification. - The calculation was carried out using internal planning data for sales, external data for production quantities and engine type from IHS and S&P as well as experts' assessments when necessary. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 146 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Pollution Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to pollution. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are rele- vant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, the de- scriptions are presented from a perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Environmental protection in own operations › In 2024, individual local environmental incidents related to minor spills such as leakages were recorded in own operations. Beyond these spills, potential environmental incidents could also lead to significant local pollution if not contained adequately and if occur- ring at several sites simultaneously. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 17) Environmental protection in the supply chain › Continental has recorded individual negative impacts related to pollution by direct suppliers in 2024. Beyond the confirmed inci- dents, Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries which po- tentially have significant negative environmental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil (e.g. from manufacturing processes of basic materials). (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 18). › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers operate in industries and certain markets which might be subject › to major transformation and new regulatory requirements related to the pollution of air, water and soil (especially considering bans or restrictions of certain materials). This can in particular lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components and/or ser- vices in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 23) Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection › In the use phase of Continental’s products in vehicles and indus- trial applications, substantive direct and indirect air, water and soil emissions are generated, especially exhaust emissions of vehicles, tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust emissions. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 19) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where sub- stantive emissions to air, water and soil occur during the use phase of Continental’s products. In a scenario with steadily more stringent regulations, the risk of violating these regulations could increase significantly. Therefore, if not sufficiently anticipated and preventively managed, Continental could be exposed to sanc- tions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even busi- ness on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 22) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably, also because of regulatory requirements and market trends related to air, water and soil emissions (espe- cially considering restrictions of substances as well as non-tail- pipe-related emissions such as tire and road wear particles and brake dust). Given the broadness of Continental's portfolio, some product segments and the business with specific customer groups could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, lead to a significant loss in sales in the respective businesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 24) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because regulatory requirements and mar- ket trends related to air, water and soil emissions (e.g. stricter emission levels of vehicles). This can lead to changing demands of requirements for certain products and innovations of Conti- nental. If Continental is able to utilize these market drivers effec- tively, specific businesses (especially tires and brakes) can profit directly or indirectly from significant growth opportunities or even new business fields/models in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 27) Pollution (ESRS E2)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 147 Substances of concern and very high concern › Continental is engaged in specific types of operations which in- clude the handling and use of substances of concern and very high concern. If not managed adequately and cautiously, signifi- cant negative impacts on people and the environment are to be expected. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 20) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental's direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries and types of operations where substances of concern and of very high concern are handled and used. If not managed adequately and cautiously, significant nega- tive impacts on people and the environment related to the han- dling and use of substances of concern and very high concern are to be expected along the supply chain. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 21) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably due to market trends and regulatory re- quirements related to substances of concern (especially consider- ing the restriction of substances). Given the broadness of sub- stances used by Continental, some product segments could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could ex- ceed the potential speed of adaptation. This can, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respective busi- nesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 25) › Continental operates in industries where the responsible handling of substances of concern is relevant along the value chain. There- fore, if prevention and mitigation fail or severe incidents of non- compliance occur (e.g. exceeding thresholds or missing declara- tions), Continental could be exposed to sanctions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even business on hold for the re- spective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 26)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 148 Management Approaches to Pollution Prevention The management approaches relevant for managing the IROs re- garding pollution are related to environmental protection in own operations, environmental protection in the supply chain, product- related aspects regarding environmental protection, and sub- stances of concern and very high concern. Environmental protection in own operations Continental has introduced comprehensive environmental protec- tion measures and environmental management processes in own operations. These also include measures and processes to prevent or, if necessary, mitigate the identified potential negative impacts from possible releases into air, water and soil. As publicly stated in Continental’s policy on environment, safety and health (Environ- ment, Safety and Health Policy, “ESH Policy”), we conserve re- sources and prevent pollution caused by emission into the air, wa- ter and soil. Continental’s management approach for environmental protection measures covers own operations worldwide and is especially fo- cused on the production sites. Responsibility for the implementation of environmental protection measures and pollution prevention lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The internal framework for environmental protection is defined by the environmental depart- ments of Continental and supervised by the Executive Board and the group sector boards. The processes and monitoring regarding the prevention and con- tainment of environmental incidents are integrated into the overall environmental management system. The preventive measures are implemented on a site-specific basis and include, among others, emergency plans, site inspections by the local ESH managers as well as regular maintenance plans. Other measures are imple- mented where they are needed and include, for example, hazard- ous substance storage, excavation, separators, wastewater treat- ment and retention basins. The prevention and containment of environmental incidents or re- leases includes site-specific emergency plans that control and limit the impact on people and the environment in case of an actual re- lease. Continental’s environmental management framework, including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, consists of the public ESH Policy and the related environmental “responsible value chain commitments (RVC commitments)” as well as several internal rules at different levels of the organization. Continental’s environmental management including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, such as leakages, is based on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. Coverage with certified environmental management systems can be found in the corresponding metric in this section. Where relevant, local environmental management also includes a consultation with local stakeholders like authorities, employees or communities. Continental's ESH Policy as well as the associated environment-re- lated RVC commitments are communicated externally on our web- site. In addition, training materials, other guidance documents and emergency response plans are available for company-internal com- munication purposes. Environmental protection in the supply chain For environmental protection in the supply chain, Continental has defined a management approach to prevent and reduce potential negative environmental impacts related to pollutant emissions to air, water and soil in the supply chain. As stated in our Business Partner Code of Conduct and RVC commitments, Continental ex- pects its suppliers to maintain adequate environmental protection management procedures, including, but not limited to air quality, responsible chemical management, soil protection and the protec- tion of water bodies. Continental’s management approach applies to all of the purchas- ing activities of Continental and its subsidiaries worldwide. The fo- cus of the management approach is on the direct suppliers (includ- ing service providers), who in turn should pass on the requirements to their suppliers. Additional specifics of the management approach apply to the natural rubber supply chain including the deeper sup- ply chain in relation to natural rubber sourcing. See also the man- agement approach to responsible sourcing and upstream value chains in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. The management approach is primarily implemented by Conti- nental’s purchasing departments, which are supported by the envi- ronmental and sustainability functions. This is overseen by the Re- sponsible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS), including oversight by the Executive Board (see also the management ap- proach for workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). The RVCDDS comprises a variety of processes covering strategy development and implementation, regulations management, man- agement of potential impacts and incident management (including complaints) as well as training. A multi-stage process comprising three lines has been set up to control and oversee system effi- ciency: In terms of the supply chain, the first line comprises the im- plementation of operational tasks at the level of the individual pur- chasing functions. The second line, represented by non-operational governance departments and roles, oversees the system, roles and responsibilities as well as their effectiveness. The third line is repre- sented by the internal audit function which performs an independ- ent evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the RVCDDS."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 149 The operational tasks include specific preventive and remedial measures regarding the supply chain, e.g. alignment of procure- ment strategies and practices, definition of contractual agreements and implementation of control mechanisms as well as training of purchasers and suppliers. Selected suppliers are assessed on the basis of various criteria using self-assessment questionnaires ob- tained via the generally accepted sustainability platforms for our in- dustries, such as EcoVadis and NQC. In addition, selective on-site audits or other audit activities are also carried out, for example in relation to the existence of environmental management systems. As part of an annual review process, the Executive Board of Conti- nental AG is updated on the current status by Continental’s human rights officer and assesses the system’s effectiveness, adequacy and potential for improvement. The RVCDDS is additionally inte- grated into Continental’s overarching internal control system, the risk management system and compliance management system. The expectations of suppliers with regard to appropriate environ- mental protection also include the prevention of incidents and emergency situations. The outlined processes are defined by an environment-related RVC commitment. Further relevant rules of this internal framework in- clude dedicated rules for purchasing and the associated work in- structions, which guide the consistent application of the key pro- cesses in all of the company’s businesses and in supplier relations. Direct suppliers are guided by the binding Business Partner Code of Conduct (BPCoC), which also refers to the RVC commitments. For suppliers of natural rubber, Continental’s purchasing policy for sustainable natural rubber also applies. Continental's management approach to environmental protection is guided by Germany’s Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferket- tensorgfaltspflichtengesetz – LkSG) as well as other due diligence standards such as the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Guide- lines. The interests of stakeholders, such as customers and associations, are taken into account within the management processes. Continental communicates its management approach through its Public Policy Statement and externally published RVC commit- ments. Supplier training initiatives are also carried out to further promote awareness and shared responsibility across the entire value chain. In addition, direct suppliers are requested to sign the Business Partner Code of Conduct. Communication is therefore aimed at both stakeholders and suppliers. Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection Continental has anchored in its sustainability ambition to strive for emission-free mobility and industry together with its partners along the value chain by 2050 at the latest. In this context, “emission- free” means the complete mitigation of harmful emissions (such as greenhouse gases or nitrogen oxides (NOx)). It does not include harmless emissions like water vapor emissions, non-toxic, biode- gradable particle emissions or minimal noise emissions. Accordingly, Continental has implemented a specific management approach to support the transition of our industries, reduce nega- tive environmental impacts in the product use phase, ensure regu- latory compliance and at the same time support opportunities for growth in specific business activities. With regard to tire and road wear particles and brake dust in partic- ular, Continental is working on researching open issues relating to these non-tailpipe-related emissions and their generation, composi- tion, transport and fate in the environment. Continental is helping to expand the base of scientifically sound knowledge about the im- pacts on human health and the environment, as the impacts have still not been sufficiently researched. It should therefore be noted that, according to current knowledge, tire and road wear will always occur in order to enable controllable and safe acceleration and braking as well as stable cornering. Ef- forts are therefore being made to reduce wear particles from tires on the one hand, and to make them as environmentally friendly as possible on the other. The management approach focuses on products that contribute to the reduction of relevant emissions, in particular tailpipe emissions, tire and road wear particles and brake dust emissions. Responsibility for expanding the business with zero-tailpipe-emis- sion vehicles (ZTEV) and for the implementation of measures to re- duce emissions, compliance with legal requirements and economic aspects lies with the respective business. They are supported by various central departments, including product development, sus- tainability, technical compliance and quality. Oversight is ultimately provided by the group sector boards as well as the Executive Board of the Continental Group. The general processes of the management approach include, for example, market research, activities in the area of research and de- velopment, active portfolio management and close dialogue with customers – as also described in the Climate change (ESRS E1) sec- tion in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy under Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition. Increasing business with ZTEV components and systems contributes to reducing tailpipe emissions in the use phase."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 150 The management processes regarding zero tailpipe emissions such as tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust comprise, in particular, R&D activities and cooperations in industry associations and with universities, science and customers in order to continue expanding the comprehensive understanding of the generation of tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust and their behavior in the environment. This includes also working on international standards for the measurement of particulate matter, e.g. within the frame of the UNECE. One example of a cooperation in the area of tire and road wear particles is the joint research project between Continental, the University of Southern Denmark and the Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon to research the degradation of rubber polymers in the environment. Furthermore, in R&D and product development processes (e.g. the product life cycle management), Continental investigates and de- velops further technical developments and solutions designed to continuously reduce these emissions more and more, and to en- sure compliance with the increasingly stringent regulations. The product development processes also include working on the eco- nomic feasibility, market readiness and scaling of such solutions as well as the cooperation with customers, suppliers and other parties (e.g. universities). One example of basic research in the area of brake dust was the LOWBRASYS project, which was completed in 2019. The project assessed various technologies that could signifi- cantly reduce brake dust. With regard to tire and road wear particles, Continental’s develop- ment engineers and material experts are working, in particular, on modifying both the tire design and the composition of tire com- pounds in order to reduce the impacts on the environment without compromising on the safety-related properties of the tires. The pro- cesses are similar for brake dust particles, with material and prod- uct development also involving cooperation with the suppliers of the relevant components such as brake pads and brake discs. The compliance of products with applicable standards, customer requirements and regulations is also subject to Continental’s tech- nical compliance processes and quality management systems. Advances in these processes can also help Continental to generate competitive advantages in the medium term in a surrounding of changing product requirements, and to exploit growth and margin opportunities, particularly for components and systems for zero- tailpipe-emission vehicles and for tires and braking systems. As a result of the IROs, specific processes for incidents and emer- gency situations in the downstream value chain are not relevant. The management approaches are guided by Continental’s tech- nical compliance framework and the sustainability ambition. Fur- ther internal rules on specific business processes apply. Current and upcoming international technical standards, obliga- tions and regulations regarding pollution (e.g. Euro 7) are relevant and binding for Continental’s products and measurements (such as the UN Global Technical Regulation No. 24 for brake emissions). To ensure compliant products and to reduce pollution, Continental maintains active dialogue with stakeholders such as authorities, customers, science and industry associations, as well as industry associations and initiatives (such as the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA), the European Tyre & Rubber Manu- facturers Association (ETRMA), and the U.S. Tire Manufacturers As- sociation (USTMA)). Of particular note is the cooperation between tire manufacturers and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) on the subject of tire abrasion as part of the “Tire Industry Project” (TIP). One important element of the communication on topics regarding non-tailpipe-related emissions in the use phase is the joint commu- nication via industry projects (e.g. TIP) or associations. Substances of concern and very high concern Continental has implemented a management approach for sub- stances of concern and very high concern to ensure the safe usage of these chemicals, protect employees and environment and be compliant with regulations, and to gradually substitute them with more sustainable chemicals. As outlined in Continental’s sustainability ambition for “clean and safe factories” and in our ESH policy, preventive measures are taken, hazards are eliminated and risks are reduced. Our framework to substitute and minimize the use of substances of concern in own operations specifies that hazardous chemicals should be evaluated if a less hazardous alternative or substitute is available. The management approach regarding substances of concern in the supply chain is largely covered by the management approach for environmental protection in the supply chain. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct also includes the expectation that our business partners will manage all chemicals responsibly. Continental’s hazardous substances management covers own op- erations worldwide and is especially focused on production sites. It also partially encompasses aspects in the upstream and down- stream value chain. The management approach covers both sub- stances of concern and substances of very high concern."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 146 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Pollution Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to pollution. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are rele- vant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, the de- scriptions are presented from a perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Environmental protection in own operations › In 2024, individual local environmental incidents related to minor spills such as leakages were recorded in own operations. Beyond these spills, potential environmental incidents could also lead to significant local pollution if not contained adequately and if occur- ring at several sites simultaneously. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 17) Environmental protection in the supply chain › Continental has recorded individual negative impacts related to pollution by direct suppliers in 2024. Beyond the confirmed inci- dents, Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries which po- tentially have significant negative environmental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil (e.g. from manufacturing processes of basic materials). (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 18). › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers operate in industries and certain markets which might be subject › to major transformation and new regulatory requirements related to the pollution of air, water and soil (especially considering bans or restrictions of certain materials). This can in particular lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components and/or ser- vices in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 23) Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection › In the use phase of Continental’s products in vehicles and indus- trial applications, substantive direct and indirect air, water and soil emissions are generated, especially exhaust emissions of vehicles, tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust emissions. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 19) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where sub- stantive emissions to air, water and soil occur during the use phase of Continental’s products. In a scenario with steadily more stringent regulations, the risk of violating these regulations could increase significantly. Therefore, if not sufficiently anticipated and preventively managed, Continental could be exposed to sanc- tions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even busi- ness on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 22) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably, also because of regulatory requirements and market trends related to air, water and soil emissions (espe- cially considering restrictions of substances as well as non-tail- pipe-related emissions such as tire and road wear particles and brake dust). Given the broadness of Continental's portfolio, some product segments and the business with specific customer groups could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, lead to a significant loss in sales in the respective businesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 24) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because regulatory requirements and mar- ket trends related to air, water and soil emissions (e.g. stricter emission levels of vehicles). This can lead to changing demands of requirements for certain products and innovations of Conti- nental. If Continental is able to utilize these market drivers effec- tively, specific businesses (especially tires and brakes) can profit directly or indirectly from significant growth opportunities or even new business fields/models in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 27) Pollution (ESRS E2)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 147 Substances of concern and very high concern › Continental is engaged in specific types of operations which in- clude the handling and use of substances of concern and very high concern. If not managed adequately and cautiously, signifi- cant negative impacts on people and the environment are to be expected. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 20) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental's direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries and types of operations where substances of concern and of very high concern are handled and used. If not managed adequately and cautiously, significant nega- tive impacts on people and the environment related to the han- dling and use of substances of concern and very high concern are to be expected along the supply chain. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 21) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably due to market trends and regulatory re- quirements related to substances of concern (especially consider- ing the restriction of substances). Given the broadness of sub- stances used by Continental, some product segments could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could ex- ceed the potential speed of adaptation. This can, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respective busi- nesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 25) › Continental operates in industries where the responsible handling of substances of concern is relevant along the value chain. There- fore, if prevention and mitigation fail or severe incidents of non- compliance occur (e.g. exceeding thresholds or missing declara- tions), Continental could be exposed to sanctions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even business on hold for the re- spective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 26)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 148 Management Approaches to Pollution Prevention The management approaches relevant for managing the IROs re- garding pollution are related to environmental protection in own operations, environmental protection in the supply chain, product- related aspects regarding environmental protection, and sub- stances of concern and very high concern. Environmental protection in own operations Continental has introduced comprehensive environmental protec- tion measures and environmental management processes in own operations. These also include measures and processes to prevent or, if necessary, mitigate the identified potential negative impacts from possible releases into air, water and soil. As publicly stated in Continental’s policy on environment, safety and health (Environ- ment, Safety and Health Policy, “ESH Policy”), we conserve re- sources and prevent pollution caused by emission into the air, wa- ter and soil. Continental’s management approach for environmental protection measures covers own operations worldwide and is especially fo- cused on the production sites. Responsibility for the implementation of environmental protection measures and pollution prevention lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The internal framework for environmental protection is defined by the environmental depart- ments of Continental and supervised by the Executive Board and the group sector boards. The processes and monitoring regarding the prevention and con- tainment of environmental incidents are integrated into the overall environmental management system. The preventive measures are implemented on a site-specific basis and include, among others, emergency plans, site inspections by the local ESH managers as well as regular maintenance plans. Other measures are imple- mented where they are needed and include, for example, hazard- ous substance storage, excavation, separators, wastewater treat- ment and retention basins. The prevention and containment of environmental incidents or re- leases includes site-specific emergency plans that control and limit the impact on people and the environment in case of an actual re- lease. Continental’s environmental management framework, including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, consists of the public ESH Policy and the related environmental “responsible value chain commitments (RVC commitments)” as well as several internal rules at different levels of the organization. Continental’s environmental management including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, such as leakages, is based on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. Coverage with certified environmental management systems can be found in the corresponding metric in this section. Where relevant, local environmental management also includes a consultation with local stakeholders like authorities, employees or communities. Continental's ESH Policy as well as the associated environment-re- lated RVC commitments are communicated externally on our web- site. In addition, training materials, other guidance documents and emergency response plans are available for company-internal com- munication purposes. Environmental protection in the supply chain For environmental protection in the supply chain, Continental has defined a management approach to prevent and reduce potential negative environmental impacts related to pollutant emissions to air, water and soil in the supply chain. As stated in our Business Partner Code of Conduct and RVC commitments, Continental ex- pects its suppliers to maintain adequate environmental protection management procedures, including, but not limited to air quality, responsible chemical management, soil protection and the protec- tion of water bodies. Continental’s management approach applies to all of the purchas- ing activities of Continental and its subsidiaries worldwide. The fo- cus of the management approach is on the direct suppliers (includ- ing service providers), who in turn should pass on the requirements to their suppliers. Additional specifics of the management approach apply to the natural rubber supply chain including the deeper sup- ply chain in relation to natural rubber sourcing. See also the man- agement approach to responsible sourcing and upstream value chains in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. The management approach is primarily implemented by Conti- nental’s purchasing departments, which are supported by the envi- ronmental and sustainability functions. This is overseen by the Re- sponsible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS), including oversight by the Executive Board (see also the management ap- proach for workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). The RVCDDS comprises a variety of processes covering strategy development and implementation, regulations management, man- agement of potential impacts and incident management (including complaints) as well as training. A multi-stage process comprising three lines has been set up to control and oversee system effi- ciency: In terms of the supply chain, the first line comprises the im- plementation of operational tasks at the level of the individual pur- chasing functions. The second line, represented by non-operational governance departments and roles, oversees the system, roles and responsibilities as well as their effectiveness. The third line is repre- sented by the internal audit function which performs an independ- ent evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the RVCDDS."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 149 The operational tasks include specific preventive and remedial measures regarding the supply chain, e.g. alignment of procure- ment strategies and practices, definition of contractual agreements and implementation of control mechanisms as well as training of purchasers and suppliers. Selected suppliers are assessed on the basis of various criteria using self-assessment questionnaires ob- tained via the generally accepted sustainability platforms for our in- dustries, such as EcoVadis and NQC. In addition, selective on-site audits or other audit activities are also carried out, for example in relation to the existence of environmental management systems. As part of an annual review process, the Executive Board of Conti- nental AG is updated on the current status by Continental’s human rights officer and assesses the system’s effectiveness, adequacy and potential for improvement. The RVCDDS is additionally inte- grated into Continental’s overarching internal control system, the risk management system and compliance management system. The expectations of suppliers with regard to appropriate environ- mental protection also include the prevention of incidents and emergency situations. The outlined processes are defined by an environment-related RVC commitment. Further relevant rules of this internal framework in- clude dedicated rules for purchasing and the associated work in- structions, which guide the consistent application of the key pro- cesses in all of the company’s businesses and in supplier relations. Direct suppliers are guided by the binding Business Partner Code of Conduct (BPCoC), which also refers to the RVC commitments. For suppliers of natural rubber, Continental’s purchasing policy for sustainable natural rubber also applies. Continental's management approach to environmental protection is guided by Germany’s Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferket- tensorgfaltspflichtengesetz – LkSG) as well as other due diligence standards such as the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Guide- lines. The interests of stakeholders, such as customers and associations, are taken into account within the management processes. Continental communicates its management approach through its Public Policy Statement and externally published RVC commit- ments. Supplier training initiatives are also carried out to further promote awareness and shared responsibility across the entire value chain. In addition, direct suppliers are requested to sign the Business Partner Code of Conduct. Communication is therefore aimed at both stakeholders and suppliers. Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection Continental has anchored in its sustainability ambition to strive for emission-free mobility and industry together with its partners along the value chain by 2050 at the latest. In this context, “emission- free” means the complete mitigation of harmful emissions (such as greenhouse gases or nitrogen oxides (NOx)). It does not include harmless emissions like water vapor emissions, non-toxic, biode- gradable particle emissions or minimal noise emissions. Accordingly, Continental has implemented a specific management approach to support the transition of our industries, reduce nega- tive environmental impacts in the product use phase, ensure regu- latory compliance and at the same time support opportunities for growth in specific business activities. With regard to tire and road wear particles and brake dust in partic- ular, Continental is working on researching open issues relating to these non-tailpipe-related emissions and their generation, composi- tion, transport and fate in the environment. Continental is helping to expand the base of scientifically sound knowledge about the im- pacts on human health and the environment, as the impacts have still not been sufficiently researched. It should therefore be noted that, according to current knowledge, tire and road wear will always occur in order to enable controllable and safe acceleration and braking as well as stable cornering. Ef- forts are therefore being made to reduce wear particles from tires on the one hand, and to make them as environmentally friendly as possible on the other. The management approach focuses on products that contribute to the reduction of relevant emissions, in particular tailpipe emissions, tire and road wear particles and brake dust emissions. Responsibility for expanding the business with zero-tailpipe-emis- sion vehicles (ZTEV) and for the implementation of measures to re- duce emissions, compliance with legal requirements and economic aspects lies with the respective business. They are supported by various central departments, including product development, sus- tainability, technical compliance and quality. Oversight is ultimately provided by the group sector boards as well as the Executive Board of the Continental Group. The general processes of the management approach include, for example, market research, activities in the area of research and de- velopment, active portfolio management and close dialogue with customers – as also described in the Climate change (ESRS E1) sec- tion in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy under Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition. Increasing business with ZTEV components and systems contributes to reducing tailpipe emissions in the use phase."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 150 The management processes regarding zero tailpipe emissions such as tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust comprise, in particular, R&D activities and cooperations in industry associations and with universities, science and customers in order to continue expanding the comprehensive understanding of the generation of tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust and their behavior in the environment. This includes also working on international standards for the measurement of particulate matter, e.g. within the frame of the UNECE. One example of a cooperation in the area of tire and road wear particles is the joint research project between Continental, the University of Southern Denmark and the Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon to research the degradation of rubber polymers in the environment. Furthermore, in R&D and product development processes (e.g. the product life cycle management), Continental investigates and de- velops further technical developments and solutions designed to continuously reduce these emissions more and more, and to en- sure compliance with the increasingly stringent regulations. The product development processes also include working on the eco- nomic feasibility, market readiness and scaling of such solutions as well as the cooperation with customers, suppliers and other parties (e.g. universities). One example of basic research in the area of brake dust was the LOWBRASYS project, which was completed in 2019. The project assessed various technologies that could signifi- cantly reduce brake dust. With regard to tire and road wear particles, Continental’s develop- ment engineers and material experts are working, in particular, on modifying both the tire design and the composition of tire com- pounds in order to reduce the impacts on the environment without compromising on the safety-related properties of the tires. The pro- cesses are similar for brake dust particles, with material and prod- uct development also involving cooperation with the suppliers of the relevant components such as brake pads and brake discs. The compliance of products with applicable standards, customer requirements and regulations is also subject to Continental’s tech- nical compliance processes and quality management systems. Advances in these processes can also help Continental to generate competitive advantages in the medium term in a surrounding of changing product requirements, and to exploit growth and margin opportunities, particularly for components and systems for zero- tailpipe-emission vehicles and for tires and braking systems. As a result of the IROs, specific processes for incidents and emer- gency situations in the downstream value chain are not relevant. The management approaches are guided by Continental’s tech- nical compliance framework and the sustainability ambition. Fur- ther internal rules on specific business processes apply. Current and upcoming international technical standards, obliga- tions and regulations regarding pollution (e.g. Euro 7) are relevant and binding for Continental’s products and measurements (such as the UN Global Technical Regulation No. 24 for brake emissions). To ensure compliant products and to reduce pollution, Continental maintains active dialogue with stakeholders such as authorities, customers, science and industry associations, as well as industry associations and initiatives (such as the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA), the European Tyre & Rubber Manu- facturers Association (ETRMA), and the U.S. Tire Manufacturers As- sociation (USTMA)). Of particular note is the cooperation between tire manufacturers and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) on the subject of tire abrasion as part of the “Tire Industry Project” (TIP). One important element of the communication on topics regarding non-tailpipe-related emissions in the use phase is the joint commu- nication via industry projects (e.g. TIP) or associations. Substances of concern and very high concern Continental has implemented a management approach for sub- stances of concern and very high concern to ensure the safe usage of these chemicals, protect employees and environment and be compliant with regulations, and to gradually substitute them with more sustainable chemicals. As outlined in Continental’s sustainability ambition for “clean and safe factories” and in our ESH policy, preventive measures are taken, hazards are eliminated and risks are reduced. Our framework to substitute and minimize the use of substances of concern in own operations specifies that hazardous chemicals should be evaluated if a less hazardous alternative or substitute is available. The management approach regarding substances of concern in the supply chain is largely covered by the management approach for environmental protection in the supply chain. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct also includes the expectation that our business partners will manage all chemicals responsibly. Continental’s hazardous substances management covers own op- erations worldwide and is especially focused on production sites. It also partially encompasses aspects in the upstream and down- stream value chain. The management approach covers both sub- stances of concern and substances of very high concern."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 146 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Pollution Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to pollution. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of the applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are rele- vant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, the de- scriptions are presented from a perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Environmental protection in own operations › In 2024, individual local environmental incidents related to minor spills such as leakages were recorded in own operations. Beyond these spills, potential environmental incidents could also lead to significant local pollution if not contained adequately and if occur- ring at several sites simultaneously. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 17) Environmental protection in the supply chain › Continental has recorded individual negative impacts related to pollution by direct suppliers in 2024. Beyond the confirmed inci- dents, Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries which po- tentially have significant negative environmental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil (e.g. from manufacturing processes of basic materials). (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 18). › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppliers operate in industries and certain markets which might be subject › to major transformation and new regulatory requirements related to the pollution of air, water and soil (especially considering bans or restrictions of certain materials). This can in particular lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components and/or ser- vices in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 23) Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection › In the use phase of Continental’s products in vehicles and indus- trial applications, substantive direct and indirect air, water and soil emissions are generated, especially exhaust emissions of vehicles, tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust emissions. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 19) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries where sub- stantive emissions to air, water and soil occur during the use phase of Continental’s products. In a scenario with steadily more stringent regulations, the risk of violating these regulations could increase significantly. Therefore, if not sufficiently anticipated and preventively managed, Continental could be exposed to sanc- tions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even busi- ness on hold for the respective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 22) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably, also because of regulatory requirements and market trends related to air, water and soil emissions (espe- cially considering restrictions of substances as well as non-tail- pipe-related emissions such as tire and road wear particles and brake dust). Given the broadness of Continental's portfolio, some product segments and the business with specific customer groups could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, lead to a significant loss in sales in the respective businesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 24) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because regulatory requirements and mar- ket trends related to air, water and soil emissions (e.g. stricter emission levels of vehicles). This can lead to changing demands of requirements for certain products and innovations of Conti- nental. If Continental is able to utilize these market drivers effec- tively, specific businesses (especially tires and brakes) can profit directly or indirectly from significant growth opportunities or even new business fields/models in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 27) Pollution (ESRS E2)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 147 Substances of concern and very high concern › Continental is engaged in specific types of operations which in- clude the handling and use of substances of concern and very high concern. If not managed adequately and cautiously, signifi- cant negative impacts on people and the environment are to be expected. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 20) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental's direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries and types of operations where substances of concern and of very high concern are handled and used. If not managed adequately and cautiously, significant nega- tive impacts on people and the environment related to the han- dling and use of substances of concern and very high concern are to be expected along the supply chain. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 21) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably due to market trends and regulatory re- quirements related to substances of concern (especially consider- ing the restriction of substances). Given the broadness of sub- stances used by Continental, some product segments could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could ex- ceed the potential speed of adaptation. This can, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respective busi- nesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 25) › Continental operates in industries where the responsible handling of substances of concern is relevant along the value chain. There- fore, if prevention and mitigation fail or severe incidents of non- compliance occur (e.g. exceeding thresholds or missing declara- tions), Continental could be exposed to sanctions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even business on hold for the re- spective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 26)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 148 Management Approaches to Pollution Prevention The management approaches relevant for managing the IROs re- garding pollution are related to environmental protection in own operations, environmental protection in the supply chain, product- related aspects regarding environmental protection, and sub- stances of concern and very high concern. Environmental protection in own operations Continental has introduced comprehensive environmental protec- tion measures and environmental management processes in own operations. These also include measures and processes to prevent or, if necessary, mitigate the identified potential negative impacts from possible releases into air, water and soil. As publicly stated in Continental’s policy on environment, safety and health (Environ- ment, Safety and Health Policy, “ESH Policy”), we conserve re- sources and prevent pollution caused by emission into the air, wa- ter and soil. Continental’s management approach for environmental protection measures covers own operations worldwide and is especially fo- cused on the production sites. Responsibility for the implementation of environmental protection measures and pollution prevention lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The internal framework for environmental protection is defined by the environmental depart- ments of Continental and supervised by the Executive Board and the group sector boards. The processes and monitoring regarding the prevention and con- tainment of environmental incidents are integrated into the overall environmental management system. The preventive measures are implemented on a site-specific basis and include, among others, emergency plans, site inspections by the local ESH managers as well as regular maintenance plans. Other measures are imple- mented where they are needed and include, for example, hazard- ous substance storage, excavation, separators, wastewater treat- ment and retention basins. The prevention and containment of environmental incidents or re- leases includes site-specific emergency plans that control and limit the impact on people and the environment in case of an actual re- lease. Continental’s environmental management framework, including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, consists of the public ESH Policy and the related environmental “responsible value chain commitments (RVC commitments)” as well as several internal rules at different levels of the organization. Continental’s environmental management including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, such as leakages, is based on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. Coverage with certified environmental management systems can be found in the corresponding metric in this section. Where relevant, local environmental management also includes a consultation with local stakeholders like authorities, employees or communities. Continental's ESH Policy as well as the associated environment-re- lated RVC commitments are communicated externally on our web- site. In addition, training materials, other guidance documents and emergency response plans are available for company-internal com- munication purposes. Environmental protection in the supply chain For environmental protection in the supply chain, Continental has defined a management approach to prevent and reduce potential negative environmental impacts related to pollutant emissions to air, water and soil in the supply chain. As stated in our Business Partner Code of Conduct and RVC commitments, Continental ex- pects its suppliers to maintain adequate environmental protection management procedures, including, but not limited to air quality, responsible chemical management, soil protection and the protec- tion of water bodies. Continental’s management approach applies to all of the purchas- ing activities of Continental and its subsidiaries worldwide. The fo- cus of the management approach is on the direct suppliers (includ- ing service providers), who in turn should pass on the requirements to their suppliers. Additional specifics of the management approach apply to the natural rubber supply chain including the deeper sup- ply chain in relation to natural rubber sourcing. See also the man- agement approach to responsible sourcing and upstream value chains in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. The management approach is primarily implemented by Conti- nental’s purchasing departments, which are supported by the envi- ronmental and sustainability functions. This is overseen by the Re- sponsible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS), including oversight by the Executive Board (see also the management ap- proach for workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). The RVCDDS comprises a variety of processes covering strategy development and implementation, regulations management, man- agement of potential impacts and incident management (including complaints) as well as training. A multi-stage process comprising three lines has been set up to control and oversee system effi- ciency: In terms of the supply chain, the first line comprises the im- plementation of operational tasks at the level of the individual pur- chasing functions. The second line, represented by non-operational governance departments and roles, oversees the system, roles and responsibilities as well as their effectiveness. The third line is repre- sented by the internal audit function which performs an independ- ent evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the RVCDDS."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 149 The operational tasks include specific preventive and remedial measures regarding the supply chain, e.g. alignment of procure- ment strategies and practices, definition of contractual agreements and implementation of control mechanisms as well as training of purchasers and suppliers. Selected suppliers are assessed on the basis of various criteria using self-assessment questionnaires ob- tained via the generally accepted sustainability platforms for our in- dustries, such as EcoVadis and NQC. In addition, selective on-site audits or other audit activities are also carried out, for example in relation to the existence of environmental management systems. As part of an annual review process, the Executive Board of Conti- nental AG is updated on the current status by Continental’s human rights officer and assesses the system’s effectiveness, adequacy and potential for improvement. The RVCDDS is additionally inte- grated into Continental’s overarching internal control system, the risk management system and compliance management system. The expectations of suppliers with regard to appropriate environ- mental protection also include the prevention of incidents and emergency situations. The outlined processes are defined by an environment-related RVC commitment. Further relevant rules of this internal framework in- clude dedicated rules for purchasing and the associated work in- structions, which guide the consistent application of the key pro- cesses in all of the company’s businesses and in supplier relations. Direct suppliers are guided by the binding Business Partner Code of Conduct (BPCoC), which also refers to the RVC commitments. For suppliers of natural rubber, Continental’s purchasing policy for sustainable natural rubber also applies. Continental's management approach to environmental protection is guided by Germany’s Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferket- tensorgfaltspflichtengesetz – LkSG) as well as other due diligence standards such as the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Guide- lines. The interests of stakeholders, such as customers and associations, are taken into account within the management processes. Continental communicates its management approach through its Public Policy Statement and externally published RVC commit- ments. Supplier training initiatives are also carried out to further promote awareness and shared responsibility across the entire value chain. In addition, direct suppliers are requested to sign the Business Partner Code of Conduct. Communication is therefore aimed at both stakeholders and suppliers. Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection Continental has anchored in its sustainability ambition to strive for emission-free mobility and industry together with its partners along the value chain by 2050 at the latest. In this context, “emission- free” means the complete mitigation of harmful emissions (such as greenhouse gases or nitrogen oxides (NOx)). It does not include harmless emissions like water vapor emissions, non-toxic, biode- gradable particle emissions or minimal noise emissions. Accordingly, Continental has implemented a specific management approach to support the transition of our industries, reduce nega- tive environmental impacts in the product use phase, ensure regu- latory compliance and at the same time support opportunities for growth in specific business activities. With regard to tire and road wear particles and brake dust in partic- ular, Continental is working on researching open issues relating to these non-tailpipe-related emissions and their generation, composi- tion, transport and fate in the environment. Continental is helping to expand the base of scientifically sound knowledge about the im- pacts on human health and the environment, as the impacts have still not been sufficiently researched. It should therefore be noted that, according to current knowledge, tire and road wear will always occur in order to enable controllable and safe acceleration and braking as well as stable cornering. Ef- forts are therefore being made to reduce wear particles from tires on the one hand, and to make them as environmentally friendly as possible on the other. The management approach focuses on products that contribute to the reduction of relevant emissions, in particular tailpipe emissions, tire and road wear particles and brake dust emissions. Responsibility for expanding the business with zero-tailpipe-emis- sion vehicles (ZTEV) and for the implementation of measures to re- duce emissions, compliance with legal requirements and economic aspects lies with the respective business. They are supported by various central departments, including product development, sus- tainability, technical compliance and quality. Oversight is ultimately provided by the group sector boards as well as the Executive Board of the Continental Group. The general processes of the management approach include, for example, market research, activities in the area of research and de- velopment, active portfolio management and close dialogue with customers – as also described in the Climate change (ESRS E1) sec- tion in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy under Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition. Increasing business with ZTEV components and systems contributes to reducing tailpipe emissions in the use phase."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 150 The management processes regarding zero tailpipe emissions such as tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust comprise, in particular, R&D activities and cooperations in industry associations and with universities, science and customers in order to continue expanding the comprehensive understanding of the generation of tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust and their behavior in the environment. This includes also working on international standards for the measurement of particulate matter, e.g. within the frame of the UNECE. One example of a cooperation in the area of tire and road wear particles is the joint research project between Continental, the University of Southern Denmark and the Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon to research the degradation of rubber polymers in the environment. Furthermore, in R&D and product development processes (e.g. the product life cycle management), Continental investigates and de- velops further technical developments and solutions designed to continuously reduce these emissions more and more, and to en- sure compliance with the increasingly stringent regulations. The product development processes also include working on the eco- nomic feasibility, market readiness and scaling of such solutions as well as the cooperation with customers, suppliers and other parties (e.g. universities). One example of basic research in the area of brake dust was the LOWBRASYS project, which was completed in 2019. The project assessed various technologies that could signifi- cantly reduce brake dust. With regard to tire and road wear particles, Continental’s develop- ment engineers and material experts are working, in particular, on modifying both the tire design and the composition of tire com- pounds in order to reduce the impacts on the environment without compromising on the safety-related properties of the tires. The pro- cesses are similar for brake dust particles, with material and prod- uct development also involving cooperation with the suppliers of the relevant components such as brake pads and brake discs. The compliance of products with applicable standards, customer requirements and regulations is also subject to Continental’s tech- nical compliance processes and quality management systems. Advances in these processes can also help Continental to generate competitive advantages in the medium term in a surrounding of changing product requirements, and to exploit growth and margin opportunities, particularly for components and systems for zero- tailpipe-emission vehicles and for tires and braking systems. As a result of the IROs, specific processes for incidents and emer- gency situations in the downstream value chain are not relevant. The management approaches are guided by Continental’s tech- nical compliance framework and the sustainability ambition. Fur- ther internal rules on specific business processes apply. Current and upcoming international technical standards, obliga- tions and regulations regarding pollution (e.g. Euro 7) are relevant and binding for Continental’s products and measurements (such as the UN Global Technical Regulation No. 24 for brake emissions). To ensure compliant products and to reduce pollution, Continental maintains active dialogue with stakeholders such as authorities, customers, science and industry associations, as well as industry associations and initiatives (such as the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA), the European Tyre & Rubber Manu- facturers Association (ETRMA), and the U.S. Tire Manufacturers As- sociation (USTMA)). Of particular note is the cooperation between tire manufacturers and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) on the subject of tire abrasion as part of the “Tire Industry Project” (TIP). One important element of the communication on topics regarding non-tailpipe-related emissions in the use phase is the joint commu- nication via industry projects (e.g. TIP) or associations. Substances of concern and very high concern Continental has implemented a management approach for sub- stances of concern and very high concern to ensure the safe usage of these chemicals, protect employees and environment and be compliant with regulations, and to gradually substitute them with more sustainable chemicals. As outlined in Continental’s sustainability ambition for “clean and safe factories” and in our ESH policy, preventive measures are taken, hazards are eliminated and risks are reduced. Our framework to substitute and minimize the use of substances of concern in own operations specifies that hazardous chemicals should be evaluated if a less hazardous alternative or substitute is available. The management approach regarding substances of concern in the supply chain is largely covered by the management approach for environmental protection in the supply chain. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct also includes the expectation that our business partners will manage all chemicals responsibly. Continental’s hazardous substances management covers own op- erations worldwide and is especially focused on production sites. It also partially encompasses aspects in the upstream and down- stream value chain. The management approach covers both sub- stances of concern and substances of very high concern."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 147 Substances of concern and very high concern › Continental is engaged in specific types of operations which in- clude the handling and use of substances of concern and very high concern. If not managed adequately and cautiously, signifi- cant negative impacts on people and the environment are to be expected. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 20) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental's direct and indirect suppliers along the supply chain comprise industries and types of operations where substances of concern and of very high concern are handled and used. If not managed adequately and cautiously, significant nega- tive impacts on people and the environment related to the han- dling and use of substances of concern and very high concern are to be expected along the supply chain. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 21) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably due to market trends and regulatory re- quirements related to substances of concern (especially consider- ing the restriction of substances). Given the broadness of sub- stances used by Continental, some product segments could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could ex- ceed the potential speed of adaptation. This can, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respective busi- nesses, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 25) › Continental operates in industries where the responsible handling of substances of concern is relevant along the value chain. There- fore, if prevention and mitigation fail or severe incidents of non- compliance occur (e.g. exceeding thresholds or missing declara- tions), Continental could be exposed to sanctions regimes with significant fines and penalties or even business on hold for the re- spective business operation, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 26)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 148 Management Approaches to Pollution Prevention The management approaches relevant for managing the IROs re- garding pollution are related to environmental protection in own operations, environmental protection in the supply chain, product- related aspects regarding environmental protection, and sub- stances of concern and very high concern. Environmental protection in own operations Continental has introduced comprehensive environmental protec- tion measures and environmental management processes in own operations. These also include measures and processes to prevent or, if necessary, mitigate the identified potential negative impacts from possible releases into air, water and soil. As publicly stated in Continental’s policy on environment, safety and health (Environ- ment, Safety and Health Policy, “ESH Policy”), we conserve re- sources and prevent pollution caused by emission into the air, wa- ter and soil. Continental’s management approach for environmental protection measures covers own operations worldwide and is especially fo- cused on the production sites. Responsibility for the implementation of environmental protection measures and pollution prevention lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The internal framework for environmental protection is defined by the environmental depart- ments of Continental and supervised by the Executive Board and the group sector boards. The processes and monitoring regarding the prevention and con- tainment of environmental incidents are integrated into the overall environmental management system. The preventive measures are implemented on a site-specific basis and include, among others, emergency plans, site inspections by the local ESH managers as well as regular maintenance plans. Other measures are imple- mented where they are needed and include, for example, hazard- ous substance storage, excavation, separators, wastewater treat- ment and retention basins. The prevention and containment of environmental incidents or re- leases includes site-specific emergency plans that control and limit the impact on people and the environment in case of an actual re- lease. Continental’s environmental management framework, including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, consists of the public ESH Policy and the related environmental “responsible value chain commitments (RVC commitments)” as well as several internal rules at different levels of the organization. Continental’s environmental management including the prevention and containment of environmental incidents, such as leakages, is based on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. Coverage with certified environmental management systems can be found in the corresponding metric in this section. Where relevant, local environmental management also includes a consultation with local stakeholders like authorities, employees or communities. Continental's ESH Policy as well as the associated environment-re- lated RVC commitments are communicated externally on our web- site. In addition, training materials, other guidance documents and emergency response plans are available for company-internal com- munication purposes. Environmental protection in the supply chain For environmental protection in the supply chain, Continental has defined a management approach to prevent and reduce potential negative environmental impacts related to pollutant emissions to air, water and soil in the supply chain. As stated in our Business Partner Code of Conduct and RVC commitments, Continental ex- pects its suppliers to maintain adequate environmental protection management procedures, including, but not limited to air quality, responsible chemical management, soil protection and the protec- tion of water bodies. Continental’s management approach applies to all of the purchas- ing activities of Continental and its subsidiaries worldwide. The fo- cus of the management approach is on the direct suppliers (includ- ing service providers), who in turn should pass on the requirements to their suppliers. Additional specifics of the management approach apply to the natural rubber supply chain including the deeper sup- ply chain in relation to natural rubber sourcing. See also the man- agement approach to responsible sourcing and upstream value chains in the Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4) section. The management approach is primarily implemented by Conti- nental’s purchasing departments, which are supported by the envi- ronmental and sustainability functions. This is overseen by the Re- sponsible Value Chain Due Diligence System (RVCDDS), including oversight by the Executive Board (see also the management ap- proach for workers in the value chain in the Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2) section). The RVCDDS comprises a variety of processes covering strategy development and implementation, regulations management, man- agement of potential impacts and incident management (including complaints) as well as training. A multi-stage process comprising three lines has been set up to control and oversee system effi- ciency: In terms of the supply chain, the first line comprises the im- plementation of operational tasks at the level of the individual pur- chasing functions. The second line, represented by non-operational governance departments and roles, oversees the system, roles and responsibilities as well as their effectiveness. The third line is repre- sented by the internal audit function which performs an independ- ent evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of the RVCDDS."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 149 The operational tasks include specific preventive and remedial measures regarding the supply chain, e.g. alignment of procure- ment strategies and practices, definition of contractual agreements and implementation of control mechanisms as well as training of purchasers and suppliers. Selected suppliers are assessed on the basis of various criteria using self-assessment questionnaires ob- tained via the generally accepted sustainability platforms for our in- dustries, such as EcoVadis and NQC. In addition, selective on-site audits or other audit activities are also carried out, for example in relation to the existence of environmental management systems. As part of an annual review process, the Executive Board of Conti- nental AG is updated on the current status by Continental’s human rights officer and assesses the system’s effectiveness, adequacy and potential for improvement. The RVCDDS is additionally inte- grated into Continental’s overarching internal control system, the risk management system and compliance management system. The expectations of suppliers with regard to appropriate environ- mental protection also include the prevention of incidents and emergency situations. The outlined processes are defined by an environment-related RVC commitment. Further relevant rules of this internal framework in- clude dedicated rules for purchasing and the associated work in- structions, which guide the consistent application of the key pro- cesses in all of the company’s businesses and in supplier relations. Direct suppliers are guided by the binding Business Partner Code of Conduct (BPCoC), which also refers to the RVC commitments. For suppliers of natural rubber, Continental’s purchasing policy for sustainable natural rubber also applies. Continental's management approach to environmental protection is guided by Germany’s Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferket- tensorgfaltspflichtengesetz – LkSG) as well as other due diligence standards such as the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Guide- lines. The interests of stakeholders, such as customers and associations, are taken into account within the management processes. Continental communicates its management approach through its Public Policy Statement and externally published RVC commit- ments. Supplier training initiatives are also carried out to further promote awareness and shared responsibility across the entire value chain. In addition, direct suppliers are requested to sign the Business Partner Code of Conduct. Communication is therefore aimed at both stakeholders and suppliers. Product-related aspects regarding environmental protection Continental has anchored in its sustainability ambition to strive for emission-free mobility and industry together with its partners along the value chain by 2050 at the latest. In this context, “emission- free” means the complete mitigation of harmful emissions (such as greenhouse gases or nitrogen oxides (NOx)). It does not include harmless emissions like water vapor emissions, non-toxic, biode- gradable particle emissions or minimal noise emissions. Accordingly, Continental has implemented a specific management approach to support the transition of our industries, reduce nega- tive environmental impacts in the product use phase, ensure regu- latory compliance and at the same time support opportunities for growth in specific business activities. With regard to tire and road wear particles and brake dust in partic- ular, Continental is working on researching open issues relating to these non-tailpipe-related emissions and their generation, composi- tion, transport and fate in the environment. Continental is helping to expand the base of scientifically sound knowledge about the im- pacts on human health and the environment, as the impacts have still not been sufficiently researched. It should therefore be noted that, according to current knowledge, tire and road wear will always occur in order to enable controllable and safe acceleration and braking as well as stable cornering. Ef- forts are therefore being made to reduce wear particles from tires on the one hand, and to make them as environmentally friendly as possible on the other. The management approach focuses on products that contribute to the reduction of relevant emissions, in particular tailpipe emissions, tire and road wear particles and brake dust emissions. Responsibility for expanding the business with zero-tailpipe-emis- sion vehicles (ZTEV) and for the implementation of measures to re- duce emissions, compliance with legal requirements and economic aspects lies with the respective business. They are supported by various central departments, including product development, sus- tainability, technical compliance and quality. Oversight is ultimately provided by the group sector boards as well as the Executive Board of the Continental Group. The general processes of the management approach include, for example, market research, activities in the area of research and de- velopment, active portfolio management and close dialogue with customers – as also described in the Climate change (ESRS E1) sec- tion in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy under Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resili- ence and transition. Increasing business with ZTEV components and systems contributes to reducing tailpipe emissions in the use phase."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 150 The management processes regarding zero tailpipe emissions such as tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust comprise, in particular, R&D activities and cooperations in industry associations and with universities, science and customers in order to continue expanding the comprehensive understanding of the generation of tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust and their behavior in the environment. This includes also working on international standards for the measurement of particulate matter, e.g. within the frame of the UNECE. One example of a cooperation in the area of tire and road wear particles is the joint research project between Continental, the University of Southern Denmark and the Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon to research the degradation of rubber polymers in the environment. Furthermore, in R&D and product development processes (e.g. the product life cycle management), Continental investigates and de- velops further technical developments and solutions designed to continuously reduce these emissions more and more, and to en- sure compliance with the increasingly stringent regulations. The product development processes also include working on the eco- nomic feasibility, market readiness and scaling of such solutions as well as the cooperation with customers, suppliers and other parties (e.g. universities). One example of basic research in the area of brake dust was the LOWBRASYS project, which was completed in 2019. The project assessed various technologies that could signifi- cantly reduce brake dust. With regard to tire and road wear particles, Continental’s develop- ment engineers and material experts are working, in particular, on modifying both the tire design and the composition of tire com- pounds in order to reduce the impacts on the environment without compromising on the safety-related properties of the tires. The pro- cesses are similar for brake dust particles, with material and prod- uct development also involving cooperation with the suppliers of the relevant components such as brake pads and brake discs. The compliance of products with applicable standards, customer requirements and regulations is also subject to Continental’s tech- nical compliance processes and quality management systems. Advances in these processes can also help Continental to generate competitive advantages in the medium term in a surrounding of changing product requirements, and to exploit growth and margin opportunities, particularly for components and systems for zero- tailpipe-emission vehicles and for tires and braking systems. As a result of the IROs, specific processes for incidents and emer- gency situations in the downstream value chain are not relevant. The management approaches are guided by Continental’s tech- nical compliance framework and the sustainability ambition. Fur- ther internal rules on specific business processes apply. Current and upcoming international technical standards, obliga- tions and regulations regarding pollution (e.g. Euro 7) are relevant and binding for Continental’s products and measurements (such as the UN Global Technical Regulation No. 24 for brake emissions). To ensure compliant products and to reduce pollution, Continental maintains active dialogue with stakeholders such as authorities, customers, science and industry associations, as well as industry associations and initiatives (such as the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA), the European Tyre & Rubber Manu- facturers Association (ETRMA), and the U.S. Tire Manufacturers As- sociation (USTMA)). Of particular note is the cooperation between tire manufacturers and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) on the subject of tire abrasion as part of the “Tire Industry Project” (TIP). One important element of the communication on topics regarding non-tailpipe-related emissions in the use phase is the joint commu- nication via industry projects (e.g. TIP) or associations. Substances of concern and very high concern Continental has implemented a management approach for sub- stances of concern and very high concern to ensure the safe usage of these chemicals, protect employees and environment and be compliant with regulations, and to gradually substitute them with more sustainable chemicals. As outlined in Continental’s sustainability ambition for “clean and safe factories” and in our ESH policy, preventive measures are taken, hazards are eliminated and risks are reduced. Our framework to substitute and minimize the use of substances of concern in own operations specifies that hazardous chemicals should be evaluated if a less hazardous alternative or substitute is available. The management approach regarding substances of concern in the supply chain is largely covered by the management approach for environmental protection in the supply chain. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct also includes the expectation that our business partners will manage all chemicals responsibly. Continental’s hazardous substances management covers own op- erations worldwide and is especially focused on production sites. It also partially encompasses aspects in the upstream and down- stream value chain. The management approach covers both sub- stances of concern and substances of very high concern."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 151 Responsibility for the implementation of the management ap- proach for substances of concern lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The governance framework for the management of hazardous substances is defined in particu- lar by the departments for environment, safety and health as well as product development, overseen by the Executive Board of Conti- nental AG and the group sector boards. The processes for monitoring the management of hazardous sub- stances are integrated into the overall environmental and occupa- tional health & safety management system as described in the management approaches to Environmental protection in own oper- ations in this section as well as Occupational safety and health in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section. Preventive measures for sub- stances of concern are implemented site-specifically and include the identification of hazardous substances, maintenance of hazard- ous substance inventories and ensuring the safe usage and storage of chemicals. Continental’s processes for substances of concern also include some upstream and downstream value chain aspects, e.g. with re- gard to integration into general procurement processes, approval of use and restrictions of use of substances which are procured, product and process development as well as placing compliant and safe products on the markets (see also the management approach to Technical and product compliance in the Consumers and end- users (ESRS S4) section). The implementation of these rules is regu- larly reviewed, for example within internal ESH-audits. The framework for Continental’s management regarding sub- stances of concern consists of a set of environmental, occupational health & safety rules at different levels of the organization as well as the sustainability ambition, ESH policy and the corresponding RVC commitments. The environmental, occupational health & safety management sys- tems are based on the international standards ISO 14001 and ISO 45001, which are also standards for the management of hazard- ous substances. Furthermore, Continental follows the Minamata Convention on Mercury, the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) as well as the Global Automotive Declara- ble Substance List (GADSL) and the International Material Data Sys- tem (IMDS) for our automotive products. Continental involves relevant stakeholders in its environmental, oc- cupational health & safety management, which also includes con- sultations with local stakeholders such as authorities, employees and communities. Continental’s ESH policy as well as the sustainability ambitions are communicated externally on our website. In addition, training mate- rials and other guidance documents (such as emergency response plans) are available for company-internal communications pur- poses. Continental communicates and trains the implementation of the rules via environmental, safety and health (EHS) managers within the group sectors. Targets Related to Pollution Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to pollution, it was decided to pursue the management ap- proaches described and not to set a time-bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the tracking of progress is de- scribed in the related management approaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to pollution beyond the described management ap- proaches."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 152 Metrics Relating to Pollution Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Substances of concern Amount of substances of concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.083 0.067 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Hazard classes are assigned in accordance with the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for the classification and labeling of chemicals. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that no significant reactions of substances of concern occur in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the Surface Solutions business area, an expert estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Quantity of substances of concern that leave the company as part of products, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled according to the assumptions described under the metric Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 153 Substances of very high concern Amount of substances of very high concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.006 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that there are no significant reactions of substances of very high concern in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the business area Surface Solutions, an estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled in accordance with the assumptions described under the metric amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities. Environmental management Coverage of environmental protection management systems 2024 Certifications for environmental protection management systems (ISO 14001) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 77 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications are considered, as well as ongoing recertifications, if the achievement of recertification was considered highly probable. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are considered not to be covered. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own employees working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 154 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to biodiversity and ecosystems. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management ap- proaches, the descriptions are presented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the manage- ment approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain › Continental is highly dependent on natural rubber to manufac- ture its rubber products. The production of natural rubber in gen- eral is considered a key commodity regarding potential deforesta- tion. Beyond natural rubber, deforestation is also generally consid- ered a relevant issue in other supply chains (e.g. metals). It can therefore be assumed that deforestation can occur deeper in Continental’s supply chain if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 28) › Continental as well as its direct and indirect suppliers operate among others in industries and certain markets that are actually or potentially subject to regulation related to deforestation and the resulting market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services, if not man- aged preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 31) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in certain markets and industries that pose a risk of potential deforestation, particularly in relation to natural rubber. If corrective measures are not taken and due diligence measures are not performed or serious violations occur, Continental can be exposed to sanction regulations with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business opera- tion, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 30) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries and pro- cures numerous products and services from a global supplier base which must comply with increasing regulatory requirements with regard to biodiversity. Comprehensive preventive measures for securing access to supply chains that are prepared for fast in- creasing regulation on biodiversity due diligence might poten- tially create comparatively more resilient supply chains offering significant potential for differentiation from the competition in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 32) Downstream value chain › Continental provides components and systems for vehicles and industrial applications. In the use phase of vehicles and industrial applications as well as in the provision of the related infrastruc- tures (e.g. roads and mines), significant direct and indirect nega- tive impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems (particularly climate change, pollution and changes in land use) occur. These are pri- marily indirectly related to the individual companies in the vehicle and industrial value chains. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 29) Biodiversity and Ecosystems (ESRS E4)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 155 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has no locations in own operations that have a signifi- cant impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. Continental has no material negative impacts with regards to land degradation, desertification or soil sealing. Continental has no locations in the vicinity of habitats of endan- gered species that have significant negative impacts on them. Management Approaches to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has implemented management approaches that ad- dress the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems. The management approaches explicitly address the issue of defor- estation in the upstream value chain. The management approaches do not address sustainable practices in connection with the oceans or seas, as no associated material impacts, risks, dependencies or opportunities have been identified. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing and upstream value chain addresses two material drivers of biodi- versity loss in the supply chain: pollution and deforestation. For the pollution driver, Continental has implemented a manage- ment approach to avoid and reduce potential negative environ- mental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil in the supply chain. This management approach is de- scribed in the subsection Environmental protection in the supply chain in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section. In addition, Continental has implemented a management approach to prevent the loss of biodiversity through deforestation, particu- larly through the cultivation of natural rubber, and to comply with the regulatory requirements for deforestation-free supply chains. As part of responsible purchasing, Continental indirectly addresses the driver of biodiversity loss, in particular change in land use in connection with deforestation. In addition, the management approach addresses Continental’s dependence on natural rubber. In 2018, Continental introduced a “Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy” to ensure responsible purchasing. The purchasing policy has been integrated into the business processes and decision-making processes, risk manage- ment and processes for risk mitigation. By implementing this man- agement approach, Continental is able to increase the resilience of the supply chain while addressing the risks associated with the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and subsequent market changes. The social consequences of the impacts on biodiversity associated with deforestation are given special consideration in the manage- ment approach. Sustainable or agricultural practices are addressed in the Sustaina- ble Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing fo- cuses on direct suppliers and indirectly on the deeper supply chain. Continental expects its direct suppliers to cascade the principles through their respective supply chains. Regarding sustainable natu- ral rubber, the management approach explicitly covers the supply chain down to the rubber plantation. Responsibility for the management approach to environmental pro- tection is described in the corresponding subsection in the Pollu- tion (ESRS E2) section under Environmental protection in the sup- ply chain. Responsibility for the implementation of the manage- ment approach regarding the responsible purchasing of natural rubber lies with the respective purchasing departments, which are supported e.g. by the sustainability departments. Strategic monitor- ing is the responsibility of the group sector boards and, at an over- arching level, the Executive Board of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 156 Continental requires its business partners in the natural rubber sup- ply chain to comply with the Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy in their own operations and further expects them to adhere to these principles throughout their entire value chain. The require- ments from supplier obligations can lead to audits and follow-up measures, e.g. corrective action plans (CAPs) or other mitigation measures. As part of its joint development partnership with the Deutsche Ge- sellschaft für internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), Continental is conducting training courses directly on site for small farmers in In- donesia to promote sustainable farming methods. Another relevant purchasing process is a so-called “risk mapping” (e.g. based on the Rubberway risk analysis and verified self-assess- ment procedures), which assesses potential deforestation at vari- ous upstream nodes in Continental’s natural rubber supply chain. To purchase natural rubber from responsible sources, Continental uses the digital trading platform Agridence (formerly HeveaCon- nect). Standardized information on compliance with social and en- vironmental standards, quality criteria and average sales prices can be viewed transparently on the platform. At the same time, the plat- form offers the opportunity to incorporate information from the analyses of the Rubberway platform. In addition, collaboration with industry to improve the methods and compliance with due diligence is another important process. Conti- nental is a member of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR). This includes annual reporting on progress and supports an industry-wide learning approach, which contributes to the effectiveness of the management approach. As a potential future lever to reduce some pressure on ecosystems, Continental has established research and development project called “Taraxagum”, which investigates and develops the potential of natural rubber from dandelions as a substitute for natural rubber from rubber trees in tropical regions. Traceability mechanisms have been implemented to improve, in particular, understanding and transparency in natural rubber pur- chasing. The Rubberway platform in particular, which was devel- oped in an industry collaboration, is used to trace natural rubber back to the natural rubber plantation. The management approach does not include regular monitoring of biodiversity status as well as its gains or losses. Nevertheless, Conti- nental takes into account the aspect of responsible sourcing and consumption from ecosystems, especially with regard to fulfilling high conservation standards and sustainable natural rubber cultiva- tion practices. Beyond the formalization of the overall management approaches in internal rules, as described in the management approaches to Envi- ronmental protection in the supply chain, Continental’s set of rules for biodiversity in responsible purchasing include the following public frameworks in particular: › Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy, › Commitments to a responsible value chain (RVC commitments), › Business Partner Code of Conduct. The management approaches are guided especially by regulatory requirements for due diligence, such as the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LksG) and EUDR. In addition, the management approach was harmonized with the GPSNR. The GPSNR is a platform that brings together different stakeholders and takes into account the interests of its members (from small- holders to natural rubber processors, tire and automotive manufac- turers, as well as civil society organizations). In addition, public con- sultations with non-members are held. The policies are communicated externally through our website and internally via Continental’s various channels. In addition, every new and existing direct supplier is requested to sign the Business Part- ner Code of Conduct. Downstream value chain Continental’s management approach to the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain addresses pollu- tion and climate change as key drivers of biodiversity loss. The re- lated management approaches are described in other sections in this sustainability report. › Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition with regard to climate change-related negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. This management approach addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy de- ployment. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change miti- gation, adaptation to climate change, energy efficiency and re- newable energy in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. › Product-related aspects relating to environmental protection with regard to the product-specific reduction of pollution in the prod- uct use phase. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection Management approaches to pollution prevention in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 157 Due to the nature of Continental’s products, the driver change in the land use (e.g. road infrastructure) in the downstream value chain is considered out of Continental’s scope of influence. There- fore, no specific management approach was defined for the driver change in the land use. Continental’s management approaches relate to the following di- rect drivers of biodiversity loss listed in ESRS E4, AR4: › Climate change, › Pollution. Continental has not identified any material risks related to biodiver- sity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain. Biodiversity and ecosystems-related social consequences in the downstream value chain are not considered separately in the man- agement approaches. Along the downstream value chain, the traceability of products and thus the product-related impacts are extremely limited due to the nature of the products and are therefore not taken into account in the management approaches. Targets Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to biodiversity and ecosystems, it was decided to pur- sue the defined management approaches and not to set a time- bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the tracking of progress is described in the related management ap- proaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems beyond the described man- agement approaches."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 150 The management processes regarding zero tailpipe emissions such as tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust comprise, in particular, R&D activities and cooperations in industry associations and with universities, science and customers in order to continue expanding the comprehensive understanding of the generation of tire and road wear particles as well as brake dust and their behavior in the environment. This includes also working on international standards for the measurement of particulate matter, e.g. within the frame of the UNECE. One example of a cooperation in the area of tire and road wear particles is the joint research project between Continental, the University of Southern Denmark and the Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon to research the degradation of rubber polymers in the environment. Furthermore, in R&D and product development processes (e.g. the product life cycle management), Continental investigates and de- velops further technical developments and solutions designed to continuously reduce these emissions more and more, and to en- sure compliance with the increasingly stringent regulations. The product development processes also include working on the eco- nomic feasibility, market readiness and scaling of such solutions as well as the cooperation with customers, suppliers and other parties (e.g. universities). One example of basic research in the area of brake dust was the LOWBRASYS project, which was completed in 2019. The project assessed various technologies that could signifi- cantly reduce brake dust. With regard to tire and road wear particles, Continental’s develop- ment engineers and material experts are working, in particular, on modifying both the tire design and the composition of tire com- pounds in order to reduce the impacts on the environment without compromising on the safety-related properties of the tires. The pro- cesses are similar for brake dust particles, with material and prod- uct development also involving cooperation with the suppliers of the relevant components such as brake pads and brake discs. The compliance of products with applicable standards, customer requirements and regulations is also subject to Continental’s tech- nical compliance processes and quality management systems. Advances in these processes can also help Continental to generate competitive advantages in the medium term in a surrounding of changing product requirements, and to exploit growth and margin opportunities, particularly for components and systems for zero- tailpipe-emission vehicles and for tires and braking systems. As a result of the IROs, specific processes for incidents and emer- gency situations in the downstream value chain are not relevant. The management approaches are guided by Continental’s tech- nical compliance framework and the sustainability ambition. Fur- ther internal rules on specific business processes apply. Current and upcoming international technical standards, obliga- tions and regulations regarding pollution (e.g. Euro 7) are relevant and binding for Continental’s products and measurements (such as the UN Global Technical Regulation No. 24 for brake emissions). To ensure compliant products and to reduce pollution, Continental maintains active dialogue with stakeholders such as authorities, customers, science and industry associations, as well as industry associations and initiatives (such as the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA), the European Tyre & Rubber Manu- facturers Association (ETRMA), and the U.S. Tire Manufacturers As- sociation (USTMA)). Of particular note is the cooperation between tire manufacturers and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) on the subject of tire abrasion as part of the “Tire Industry Project” (TIP). One important element of the communication on topics regarding non-tailpipe-related emissions in the use phase is the joint commu- nication via industry projects (e.g. TIP) or associations. Substances of concern and very high concern Continental has implemented a management approach for sub- stances of concern and very high concern to ensure the safe usage of these chemicals, protect employees and environment and be compliant with regulations, and to gradually substitute them with more sustainable chemicals. As outlined in Continental’s sustainability ambition for “clean and safe factories” and in our ESH policy, preventive measures are taken, hazards are eliminated and risks are reduced. Our framework to substitute and minimize the use of substances of concern in own operations specifies that hazardous chemicals should be evaluated if a less hazardous alternative or substitute is available. The management approach regarding substances of concern in the supply chain is largely covered by the management approach for environmental protection in the supply chain. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct also includes the expectation that our business partners will manage all chemicals responsibly. Continental’s hazardous substances management covers own op- erations worldwide and is especially focused on production sites. It also partially encompasses aspects in the upstream and down- stream value chain. The management approach covers both sub- stances of concern and substances of very high concern."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 151 Responsibility for the implementation of the management ap- proach for substances of concern lies with the management of Continental's respective legal entities. The governance framework for the management of hazardous substances is defined in particu- lar by the departments for environment, safety and health as well as product development, overseen by the Executive Board of Conti- nental AG and the group sector boards. The processes for monitoring the management of hazardous sub- stances are integrated into the overall environmental and occupa- tional health & safety management system as described in the management approaches to Environmental protection in own oper- ations in this section as well as Occupational safety and health in the Own workforce (ESRS S1) section. Preventive measures for sub- stances of concern are implemented site-specifically and include the identification of hazardous substances, maintenance of hazard- ous substance inventories and ensuring the safe usage and storage of chemicals. Continental’s processes for substances of concern also include some upstream and downstream value chain aspects, e.g. with re- gard to integration into general procurement processes, approval of use and restrictions of use of substances which are procured, product and process development as well as placing compliant and safe products on the markets (see also the management approach to Technical and product compliance in the Consumers and end- users (ESRS S4) section). The implementation of these rules is regu- larly reviewed, for example within internal ESH-audits. The framework for Continental’s management regarding sub- stances of concern consists of a set of environmental, occupational health & safety rules at different levels of the organization as well as the sustainability ambition, ESH policy and the corresponding RVC commitments. The environmental, occupational health & safety management sys- tems are based on the international standards ISO 14001 and ISO 45001, which are also standards for the management of hazard- ous substances. Furthermore, Continental follows the Minamata Convention on Mercury, the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) as well as the Global Automotive Declara- ble Substance List (GADSL) and the International Material Data Sys- tem (IMDS) for our automotive products. Continental involves relevant stakeholders in its environmental, oc- cupational health & safety management, which also includes con- sultations with local stakeholders such as authorities, employees and communities. Continental’s ESH policy as well as the sustainability ambitions are communicated externally on our website. In addition, training mate- rials and other guidance documents (such as emergency response plans) are available for company-internal communications pur- poses. Continental communicates and trains the implementation of the rules via environmental, safety and health (EHS) managers within the group sectors. Targets Related to Pollution Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to pollution, it was decided to pursue the management ap- proaches described and not to set a time-bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the tracking of progress is de- scribed in the related management approaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to pollution beyond the described management ap- proaches."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 152 Metrics Relating to Pollution Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Substances of concern Amount of substances of concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.083 0.067 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Hazard classes are assigned in accordance with the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for the classification and labeling of chemicals. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that no significant reactions of substances of concern occur in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the Surface Solutions business area, an expert estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Quantity of substances of concern that leave the company as part of products, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled according to the assumptions described under the metric Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 153 Substances of very high concern Amount of substances of very high concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.006 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that there are no significant reactions of substances of very high concern in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the business area Surface Solutions, an estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled in accordance with the assumptions described under the metric amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities. Environmental management Coverage of environmental protection management systems 2024 Certifications for environmental protection management systems (ISO 14001) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 77 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications are considered, as well as ongoing recertifications, if the achievement of recertification was considered highly probable. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are considered not to be covered. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own employees working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 154 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to biodiversity and ecosystems. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management ap- proaches, the descriptions are presented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the manage- ment approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain › Continental is highly dependent on natural rubber to manufac- ture its rubber products. The production of natural rubber in gen- eral is considered a key commodity regarding potential deforesta- tion. Beyond natural rubber, deforestation is also generally consid- ered a relevant issue in other supply chains (e.g. metals). It can therefore be assumed that deforestation can occur deeper in Continental’s supply chain if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 28) › Continental as well as its direct and indirect suppliers operate among others in industries and certain markets that are actually or potentially subject to regulation related to deforestation and the resulting market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services, if not man- aged preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 31) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in certain markets and industries that pose a risk of potential deforestation, particularly in relation to natural rubber. If corrective measures are not taken and due diligence measures are not performed or serious violations occur, Continental can be exposed to sanction regulations with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business opera- tion, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 30) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries and pro- cures numerous products and services from a global supplier base which must comply with increasing regulatory requirements with regard to biodiversity. Comprehensive preventive measures for securing access to supply chains that are prepared for fast in- creasing regulation on biodiversity due diligence might poten- tially create comparatively more resilient supply chains offering significant potential for differentiation from the competition in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 32) Downstream value chain › Continental provides components and systems for vehicles and industrial applications. In the use phase of vehicles and industrial applications as well as in the provision of the related infrastruc- tures (e.g. roads and mines), significant direct and indirect nega- tive impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems (particularly climate change, pollution and changes in land use) occur. These are pri- marily indirectly related to the individual companies in the vehicle and industrial value chains. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 29) Biodiversity and Ecosystems (ESRS E4)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 155 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has no locations in own operations that have a signifi- cant impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. Continental has no material negative impacts with regards to land degradation, desertification or soil sealing. Continental has no locations in the vicinity of habitats of endan- gered species that have significant negative impacts on them. Management Approaches to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has implemented management approaches that ad- dress the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems. The management approaches explicitly address the issue of defor- estation in the upstream value chain. The management approaches do not address sustainable practices in connection with the oceans or seas, as no associated material impacts, risks, dependencies or opportunities have been identified. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing and upstream value chain addresses two material drivers of biodi- versity loss in the supply chain: pollution and deforestation. For the pollution driver, Continental has implemented a manage- ment approach to avoid and reduce potential negative environ- mental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil in the supply chain. This management approach is de- scribed in the subsection Environmental protection in the supply chain in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section. In addition, Continental has implemented a management approach to prevent the loss of biodiversity through deforestation, particu- larly through the cultivation of natural rubber, and to comply with the regulatory requirements for deforestation-free supply chains. As part of responsible purchasing, Continental indirectly addresses the driver of biodiversity loss, in particular change in land use in connection with deforestation. In addition, the management approach addresses Continental’s dependence on natural rubber. In 2018, Continental introduced a “Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy” to ensure responsible purchasing. The purchasing policy has been integrated into the business processes and decision-making processes, risk manage- ment and processes for risk mitigation. By implementing this man- agement approach, Continental is able to increase the resilience of the supply chain while addressing the risks associated with the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and subsequent market changes. The social consequences of the impacts on biodiversity associated with deforestation are given special consideration in the manage- ment approach. Sustainable or agricultural practices are addressed in the Sustaina- ble Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing fo- cuses on direct suppliers and indirectly on the deeper supply chain. Continental expects its direct suppliers to cascade the principles through their respective supply chains. Regarding sustainable natu- ral rubber, the management approach explicitly covers the supply chain down to the rubber plantation. Responsibility for the management approach to environmental pro- tection is described in the corresponding subsection in the Pollu- tion (ESRS E2) section under Environmental protection in the sup- ply chain. Responsibility for the implementation of the manage- ment approach regarding the responsible purchasing of natural rubber lies with the respective purchasing departments, which are supported e.g. by the sustainability departments. Strategic monitor- ing is the responsibility of the group sector boards and, at an over- arching level, the Executive Board of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 156 Continental requires its business partners in the natural rubber sup- ply chain to comply with the Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy in their own operations and further expects them to adhere to these principles throughout their entire value chain. The require- ments from supplier obligations can lead to audits and follow-up measures, e.g. corrective action plans (CAPs) or other mitigation measures. As part of its joint development partnership with the Deutsche Ge- sellschaft für internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), Continental is conducting training courses directly on site for small farmers in In- donesia to promote sustainable farming methods. Another relevant purchasing process is a so-called “risk mapping” (e.g. based on the Rubberway risk analysis and verified self-assess- ment procedures), which assesses potential deforestation at vari- ous upstream nodes in Continental’s natural rubber supply chain. To purchase natural rubber from responsible sources, Continental uses the digital trading platform Agridence (formerly HeveaCon- nect). Standardized information on compliance with social and en- vironmental standards, quality criteria and average sales prices can be viewed transparently on the platform. At the same time, the plat- form offers the opportunity to incorporate information from the analyses of the Rubberway platform. In addition, collaboration with industry to improve the methods and compliance with due diligence is another important process. Conti- nental is a member of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR). This includes annual reporting on progress and supports an industry-wide learning approach, which contributes to the effectiveness of the management approach. As a potential future lever to reduce some pressure on ecosystems, Continental has established research and development project called “Taraxagum”, which investigates and develops the potential of natural rubber from dandelions as a substitute for natural rubber from rubber trees in tropical regions. Traceability mechanisms have been implemented to improve, in particular, understanding and transparency in natural rubber pur- chasing. The Rubberway platform in particular, which was devel- oped in an industry collaboration, is used to trace natural rubber back to the natural rubber plantation. The management approach does not include regular monitoring of biodiversity status as well as its gains or losses. Nevertheless, Conti- nental takes into account the aspect of responsible sourcing and consumption from ecosystems, especially with regard to fulfilling high conservation standards and sustainable natural rubber cultiva- tion practices. Beyond the formalization of the overall management approaches in internal rules, as described in the management approaches to Envi- ronmental protection in the supply chain, Continental’s set of rules for biodiversity in responsible purchasing include the following public frameworks in particular: › Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy, › Commitments to a responsible value chain (RVC commitments), › Business Partner Code of Conduct. The management approaches are guided especially by regulatory requirements for due diligence, such as the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LksG) and EUDR. In addition, the management approach was harmonized with the GPSNR. The GPSNR is a platform that brings together different stakeholders and takes into account the interests of its members (from small- holders to natural rubber processors, tire and automotive manufac- turers, as well as civil society organizations). In addition, public con- sultations with non-members are held. The policies are communicated externally through our website and internally via Continental’s various channels. In addition, every new and existing direct supplier is requested to sign the Business Part- ner Code of Conduct. Downstream value chain Continental’s management approach to the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain addresses pollu- tion and climate change as key drivers of biodiversity loss. The re- lated management approaches are described in other sections in this sustainability report. › Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition with regard to climate change-related negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. This management approach addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy de- ployment. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change miti- gation, adaptation to climate change, energy efficiency and re- newable energy in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. › Product-related aspects relating to environmental protection with regard to the product-specific reduction of pollution in the prod- uct use phase. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection Management approaches to pollution prevention in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 152 Metrics Relating to Pollution Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Substances of concern Amount of substances of concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.083 0.067 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Hazard classes are assigned in accordance with the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for the classification and labeling of chemicals. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that no significant reactions of substances of concern occur in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the Surface Solutions business area, an expert estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Quantity of substances of concern that leave the company as part of products, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled according to the assumptions described under the metric Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 153 Substances of very high concern Amount of substances of very high concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.006 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that there are no significant reactions of substances of very high concern in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the business area Surface Solutions, an estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled in accordance with the assumptions described under the metric amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities. Environmental management Coverage of environmental protection management systems 2024 Certifications for environmental protection management systems (ISO 14001) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 77 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications are considered, as well as ongoing recertifications, if the achievement of recertification was considered highly probable. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are considered not to be covered. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own employees working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 154 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to biodiversity and ecosystems. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management ap- proaches, the descriptions are presented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the manage- ment approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain › Continental is highly dependent on natural rubber to manufac- ture its rubber products. The production of natural rubber in gen- eral is considered a key commodity regarding potential deforesta- tion. Beyond natural rubber, deforestation is also generally consid- ered a relevant issue in other supply chains (e.g. metals). It can therefore be assumed that deforestation can occur deeper in Continental’s supply chain if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 28) › Continental as well as its direct and indirect suppliers operate among others in industries and certain markets that are actually or potentially subject to regulation related to deforestation and the resulting market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services, if not man- aged preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 31) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in certain markets and industries that pose a risk of potential deforestation, particularly in relation to natural rubber. If corrective measures are not taken and due diligence measures are not performed or serious violations occur, Continental can be exposed to sanction regulations with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business opera- tion, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 30) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries and pro- cures numerous products and services from a global supplier base which must comply with increasing regulatory requirements with regard to biodiversity. Comprehensive preventive measures for securing access to supply chains that are prepared for fast in- creasing regulation on biodiversity due diligence might poten- tially create comparatively more resilient supply chains offering significant potential for differentiation from the competition in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 32) Downstream value chain › Continental provides components and systems for vehicles and industrial applications. In the use phase of vehicles and industrial applications as well as in the provision of the related infrastruc- tures (e.g. roads and mines), significant direct and indirect nega- tive impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems (particularly climate change, pollution and changes in land use) occur. These are pri- marily indirectly related to the individual companies in the vehicle and industrial value chains. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 29) Biodiversity and Ecosystems (ESRS E4)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 155 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has no locations in own operations that have a signifi- cant impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. Continental has no material negative impacts with regards to land degradation, desertification or soil sealing. Continental has no locations in the vicinity of habitats of endan- gered species that have significant negative impacts on them. Management Approaches to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has implemented management approaches that ad- dress the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems. The management approaches explicitly address the issue of defor- estation in the upstream value chain. The management approaches do not address sustainable practices in connection with the oceans or seas, as no associated material impacts, risks, dependencies or opportunities have been identified. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing and upstream value chain addresses two material drivers of biodi- versity loss in the supply chain: pollution and deforestation. For the pollution driver, Continental has implemented a manage- ment approach to avoid and reduce potential negative environ- mental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil in the supply chain. This management approach is de- scribed in the subsection Environmental protection in the supply chain in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section. In addition, Continental has implemented a management approach to prevent the loss of biodiversity through deforestation, particu- larly through the cultivation of natural rubber, and to comply with the regulatory requirements for deforestation-free supply chains. As part of responsible purchasing, Continental indirectly addresses the driver of biodiversity loss, in particular change in land use in connection with deforestation. In addition, the management approach addresses Continental’s dependence on natural rubber. In 2018, Continental introduced a “Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy” to ensure responsible purchasing. The purchasing policy has been integrated into the business processes and decision-making processes, risk manage- ment and processes for risk mitigation. By implementing this man- agement approach, Continental is able to increase the resilience of the supply chain while addressing the risks associated with the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and subsequent market changes. The social consequences of the impacts on biodiversity associated with deforestation are given special consideration in the manage- ment approach. Sustainable or agricultural practices are addressed in the Sustaina- ble Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing fo- cuses on direct suppliers and indirectly on the deeper supply chain. Continental expects its direct suppliers to cascade the principles through their respective supply chains. Regarding sustainable natu- ral rubber, the management approach explicitly covers the supply chain down to the rubber plantation. Responsibility for the management approach to environmental pro- tection is described in the corresponding subsection in the Pollu- tion (ESRS E2) section under Environmental protection in the sup- ply chain. Responsibility for the implementation of the manage- ment approach regarding the responsible purchasing of natural rubber lies with the respective purchasing departments, which are supported e.g. by the sustainability departments. Strategic monitor- ing is the responsibility of the group sector boards and, at an over- arching level, the Executive Board of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 156 Continental requires its business partners in the natural rubber sup- ply chain to comply with the Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy in their own operations and further expects them to adhere to these principles throughout their entire value chain. The require- ments from supplier obligations can lead to audits and follow-up measures, e.g. corrective action plans (CAPs) or other mitigation measures. As part of its joint development partnership with the Deutsche Ge- sellschaft für internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), Continental is conducting training courses directly on site for small farmers in In- donesia to promote sustainable farming methods. Another relevant purchasing process is a so-called “risk mapping” (e.g. based on the Rubberway risk analysis and verified self-assess- ment procedures), which assesses potential deforestation at vari- ous upstream nodes in Continental’s natural rubber supply chain. To purchase natural rubber from responsible sources, Continental uses the digital trading platform Agridence (formerly HeveaCon- nect). Standardized information on compliance with social and en- vironmental standards, quality criteria and average sales prices can be viewed transparently on the platform. At the same time, the plat- form offers the opportunity to incorporate information from the analyses of the Rubberway platform. In addition, collaboration with industry to improve the methods and compliance with due diligence is another important process. Conti- nental is a member of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR). This includes annual reporting on progress and supports an industry-wide learning approach, which contributes to the effectiveness of the management approach. As a potential future lever to reduce some pressure on ecosystems, Continental has established research and development project called “Taraxagum”, which investigates and develops the potential of natural rubber from dandelions as a substitute for natural rubber from rubber trees in tropical regions. Traceability mechanisms have been implemented to improve, in particular, understanding and transparency in natural rubber pur- chasing. The Rubberway platform in particular, which was devel- oped in an industry collaboration, is used to trace natural rubber back to the natural rubber plantation. The management approach does not include regular monitoring of biodiversity status as well as its gains or losses. Nevertheless, Conti- nental takes into account the aspect of responsible sourcing and consumption from ecosystems, especially with regard to fulfilling high conservation standards and sustainable natural rubber cultiva- tion practices. Beyond the formalization of the overall management approaches in internal rules, as described in the management approaches to Envi- ronmental protection in the supply chain, Continental’s set of rules for biodiversity in responsible purchasing include the following public frameworks in particular: › Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy, › Commitments to a responsible value chain (RVC commitments), › Business Partner Code of Conduct. The management approaches are guided especially by regulatory requirements for due diligence, such as the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LksG) and EUDR. In addition, the management approach was harmonized with the GPSNR. The GPSNR is a platform that brings together different stakeholders and takes into account the interests of its members (from small- holders to natural rubber processors, tire and automotive manufac- turers, as well as civil society organizations). In addition, public con- sultations with non-members are held. The policies are communicated externally through our website and internally via Continental’s various channels. In addition, every new and existing direct supplier is requested to sign the Business Part- ner Code of Conduct. Downstream value chain Continental’s management approach to the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain addresses pollu- tion and climate change as key drivers of biodiversity loss. The re- lated management approaches are described in other sections in this sustainability report. › Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition with regard to climate change-related negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. This management approach addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy de- ployment. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change miti- gation, adaptation to climate change, energy efficiency and re- newable energy in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. › Product-related aspects relating to environmental protection with regard to the product-specific reduction of pollution in the prod- uct use phase. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection Management approaches to pollution prevention in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 152 Metrics Relating to Pollution Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Substances of concern Amount of substances of concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.083 0.067 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Hazard classes are assigned in accordance with the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for the classification and labeling of chemicals. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that no significant reactions of substances of concern occur in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the Surface Solutions business area, an expert estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Quantity of substances of concern that leave the company as part of products, in million t 0.016 0.031 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled according to the assumptions described under the metric Amount of substances of concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of concern that leave the facilities."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 153 Substances of very high concern Amount of substances of very high concern used, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that are generated, used or procured during production, in million t 0.006 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. To avoid double counting, substances of concern that belong to both hazard classes are listed under health hazards. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Substances of very high concern are defined according to the applicable regulations. - Allocation to hazard classes is done in accordance with the GHS. - The Automotive group sector’s production processes focus primarily on the assembly of components. It can be assumed that there are no significant reactions of substances of very high concern in the production process. The quantity of incoming substances is therefore equal to the quantity of outgoing substances. - For batteries and compressors in the Tires group sector, the quantities of incoming substances correspond to the quantities of outgoing substances, as they are not subject to any further production steps. For tires and bellows, the quantities are calculated on the basis of the documented product compositions and IMDS data. IMDS is a globally standardized exchange and management system for material data in the automotive industry. - The same assumptions and calculation methods are used for rubber-based products in the ContiTech group sector as in the Tires group sector. Based on the variety of relevant chemical processes for the products in the business area Surface Solutions, an estimate of the average chemical reaction of substances of concern is applied and the quantity is calculated. Due to the use of these calculation methods, the figures for the ContiTech group sector are subject to uncertainties. - The data are collected by the individual locations. The amount for the month of December is extrapolated. Amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities as part of products, by main hazard class Health hazard Environmental hazard Amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products, in million t 0.004 <0.001 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is compiled in accordance with the assumptions described under the metric amount of substances of very high concern leaving the facilities, by main hazard class. - Due to the production processes used, there are only substances of very high concern that leave the facilities as part of products. Consequently, this metric shows 100 % of the total amount of substances of very high concern that leave the facilities. Environmental management Coverage of environmental protection management systems 2024 Certifications for environmental protection management systems (ISO 14001) Employee coverage (as at December 31), in % 77 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This includes employees of the Continental Group with a valid and active employment contract as well as non-employees as at December 31, 2024. Interns and apprentices are not considered. - Valid certifications and concluded recertifications are considered, as well as ongoing recertifications, if the achievement of recertification was considered highly probable. - The data is collected by the individual locations. A small number of employees who could not be assigned are considered not to be covered. The metric is calculated from the ratio of own employees working at a certified location to the total number of Continental’s own employees. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 154 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to biodiversity and ecosystems. They have been grouped into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descrip- tions of the negative impacts and risks are presented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the respective IRO cluster. This per- spective is used to determine where appropriate management ap- proaches are relevant and corresponding reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management ap- proaches, the descriptions are presented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, considers the results of the manage- ment approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain › Continental is highly dependent on natural rubber to manufac- ture its rubber products. The production of natural rubber in gen- eral is considered a key commodity regarding potential deforesta- tion. Beyond natural rubber, deforestation is also generally consid- ered a relevant issue in other supply chains (e.g. metals). It can therefore be assumed that deforestation can occur deeper in Continental’s supply chain if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 28) › Continental as well as its direct and indirect suppliers operate among others in industries and certain markets that are actually or potentially subject to regulation related to deforestation and the resulting market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services, if not man- aged preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 31) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers operate in certain markets and industries that pose a risk of potential deforestation, particularly in relation to natural rubber. If corrective measures are not taken and due diligence measures are not performed or serious violations occur, Continental can be exposed to sanction regulations with substantial penalties and fines or even business on hold for the respective business opera- tion, especially in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 30) › Continental operates in certain markets and industries and pro- cures numerous products and services from a global supplier base which must comply with increasing regulatory requirements with regard to biodiversity. Comprehensive preventive measures for securing access to supply chains that are prepared for fast in- creasing regulation on biodiversity due diligence might poten- tially create comparatively more resilient supply chains offering significant potential for differentiation from the competition in the medium term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 32) Downstream value chain › Continental provides components and systems for vehicles and industrial applications. In the use phase of vehicles and industrial applications as well as in the provision of the related infrastruc- tures (e.g. roads and mines), significant direct and indirect nega- tive impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems (particularly climate change, pollution and changes in land use) occur. These are pri- marily indirectly related to the individual companies in the vehicle and industrial value chains. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 29) Biodiversity and Ecosystems (ESRS E4)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 155 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has no locations in own operations that have a signifi- cant impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. Continental has no material negative impacts with regards to land degradation, desertification or soil sealing. Continental has no locations in the vicinity of habitats of endan- gered species that have significant negative impacts on them. Management Approaches to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has implemented management approaches that ad- dress the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems. The management approaches explicitly address the issue of defor- estation in the upstream value chain. The management approaches do not address sustainable practices in connection with the oceans or seas, as no associated material impacts, risks, dependencies or opportunities have been identified. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing and upstream value chain addresses two material drivers of biodi- versity loss in the supply chain: pollution and deforestation. For the pollution driver, Continental has implemented a manage- ment approach to avoid and reduce potential negative environ- mental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil in the supply chain. This management approach is de- scribed in the subsection Environmental protection in the supply chain in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section. In addition, Continental has implemented a management approach to prevent the loss of biodiversity through deforestation, particu- larly through the cultivation of natural rubber, and to comply with the regulatory requirements for deforestation-free supply chains. As part of responsible purchasing, Continental indirectly addresses the driver of biodiversity loss, in particular change in land use in connection with deforestation. In addition, the management approach addresses Continental’s dependence on natural rubber. In 2018, Continental introduced a “Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy” to ensure responsible purchasing. The purchasing policy has been integrated into the business processes and decision-making processes, risk manage- ment and processes for risk mitigation. By implementing this man- agement approach, Continental is able to increase the resilience of the supply chain while addressing the risks associated with the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and subsequent market changes. The social consequences of the impacts on biodiversity associated with deforestation are given special consideration in the manage- ment approach. Sustainable or agricultural practices are addressed in the Sustaina- ble Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing fo- cuses on direct suppliers and indirectly on the deeper supply chain. Continental expects its direct suppliers to cascade the principles through their respective supply chains. Regarding sustainable natu- ral rubber, the management approach explicitly covers the supply chain down to the rubber plantation. Responsibility for the management approach to environmental pro- tection is described in the corresponding subsection in the Pollu- tion (ESRS E2) section under Environmental protection in the sup- ply chain. Responsibility for the implementation of the manage- ment approach regarding the responsible purchasing of natural rubber lies with the respective purchasing departments, which are supported e.g. by the sustainability departments. Strategic monitor- ing is the responsibility of the group sector boards and, at an over- arching level, the Executive Board of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 156 Continental requires its business partners in the natural rubber sup- ply chain to comply with the Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy in their own operations and further expects them to adhere to these principles throughout their entire value chain. The require- ments from supplier obligations can lead to audits and follow-up measures, e.g. corrective action plans (CAPs) or other mitigation measures. As part of its joint development partnership with the Deutsche Ge- sellschaft für internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), Continental is conducting training courses directly on site for small farmers in In- donesia to promote sustainable farming methods. Another relevant purchasing process is a so-called “risk mapping” (e.g. based on the Rubberway risk analysis and verified self-assess- ment procedures), which assesses potential deforestation at vari- ous upstream nodes in Continental’s natural rubber supply chain. To purchase natural rubber from responsible sources, Continental uses the digital trading platform Agridence (formerly HeveaCon- nect). Standardized information on compliance with social and en- vironmental standards, quality criteria and average sales prices can be viewed transparently on the platform. At the same time, the plat- form offers the opportunity to incorporate information from the analyses of the Rubberway platform. In addition, collaboration with industry to improve the methods and compliance with due diligence is another important process. Conti- nental is a member of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR). This includes annual reporting on progress and supports an industry-wide learning approach, which contributes to the effectiveness of the management approach. As a potential future lever to reduce some pressure on ecosystems, Continental has established research and development project called “Taraxagum”, which investigates and develops the potential of natural rubber from dandelions as a substitute for natural rubber from rubber trees in tropical regions. Traceability mechanisms have been implemented to improve, in particular, understanding and transparency in natural rubber pur- chasing. The Rubberway platform in particular, which was devel- oped in an industry collaboration, is used to trace natural rubber back to the natural rubber plantation. The management approach does not include regular monitoring of biodiversity status as well as its gains or losses. Nevertheless, Conti- nental takes into account the aspect of responsible sourcing and consumption from ecosystems, especially with regard to fulfilling high conservation standards and sustainable natural rubber cultiva- tion practices. Beyond the formalization of the overall management approaches in internal rules, as described in the management approaches to Envi- ronmental protection in the supply chain, Continental’s set of rules for biodiversity in responsible purchasing include the following public frameworks in particular: › Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy, › Commitments to a responsible value chain (RVC commitments), › Business Partner Code of Conduct. The management approaches are guided especially by regulatory requirements for due diligence, such as the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LksG) and EUDR. In addition, the management approach was harmonized with the GPSNR. The GPSNR is a platform that brings together different stakeholders and takes into account the interests of its members (from small- holders to natural rubber processors, tire and automotive manufac- turers, as well as civil society organizations). In addition, public con- sultations with non-members are held. The policies are communicated externally through our website and internally via Continental’s various channels. In addition, every new and existing direct supplier is requested to sign the Business Part- ner Code of Conduct. Downstream value chain Continental’s management approach to the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain addresses pollu- tion and climate change as key drivers of biodiversity loss. The re- lated management approaches are described in other sections in this sustainability report. › Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition with regard to climate change-related negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. This management approach addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy de- ployment. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change miti- gation, adaptation to climate change, energy efficiency and re- newable energy in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. › Product-related aspects relating to environmental protection with regard to the product-specific reduction of pollution in the prod- uct use phase. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection Management approaches to pollution prevention in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 155 Further Information on the IRO Assessment in Relation to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has no locations in own operations that have a signifi- cant impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. Continental has no material negative impacts with regards to land degradation, desertification or soil sealing. Continental has no locations in the vicinity of habitats of endan- gered species that have significant negative impacts on them. Management Approaches to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has implemented management approaches that ad- dress the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems. The management approaches explicitly address the issue of defor- estation in the upstream value chain. The management approaches do not address sustainable practices in connection with the oceans or seas, as no associated material impacts, risks, dependencies or opportunities have been identified. Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing and upstream value chain addresses two material drivers of biodi- versity loss in the supply chain: pollution and deforestation. For the pollution driver, Continental has implemented a manage- ment approach to avoid and reduce potential negative environ- mental impacts related to the generation of pollutants in air, water and soil in the supply chain. This management approach is de- scribed in the subsection Environmental protection in the supply chain in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section. In addition, Continental has implemented a management approach to prevent the loss of biodiversity through deforestation, particu- larly through the cultivation of natural rubber, and to comply with the regulatory requirements for deforestation-free supply chains. As part of responsible purchasing, Continental indirectly addresses the driver of biodiversity loss, in particular change in land use in connection with deforestation. In addition, the management approach addresses Continental’s dependence on natural rubber. In 2018, Continental introduced a “Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy” to ensure responsible purchasing. The purchasing policy has been integrated into the business processes and decision-making processes, risk manage- ment and processes for risk mitigation. By implementing this man- agement approach, Continental is able to increase the resilience of the supply chain while addressing the risks associated with the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and subsequent market changes. The social consequences of the impacts on biodiversity associated with deforestation are given special consideration in the manage- ment approach. Sustainable or agricultural practices are addressed in the Sustaina- ble Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Continental’s management approach for responsible purchasing fo- cuses on direct suppliers and indirectly on the deeper supply chain. Continental expects its direct suppliers to cascade the principles through their respective supply chains. Regarding sustainable natu- ral rubber, the management approach explicitly covers the supply chain down to the rubber plantation. Responsibility for the management approach to environmental pro- tection is described in the corresponding subsection in the Pollu- tion (ESRS E2) section under Environmental protection in the sup- ply chain. Responsibility for the implementation of the manage- ment approach regarding the responsible purchasing of natural rubber lies with the respective purchasing departments, which are supported e.g. by the sustainability departments. Strategic monitor- ing is the responsibility of the group sector boards and, at an over- arching level, the Executive Board of the Continental Group."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 156 Continental requires its business partners in the natural rubber sup- ply chain to comply with the Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy in their own operations and further expects them to adhere to these principles throughout their entire value chain. The require- ments from supplier obligations can lead to audits and follow-up measures, e.g. corrective action plans (CAPs) or other mitigation measures. As part of its joint development partnership with the Deutsche Ge- sellschaft für internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), Continental is conducting training courses directly on site for small farmers in In- donesia to promote sustainable farming methods. Another relevant purchasing process is a so-called “risk mapping” (e.g. based on the Rubberway risk analysis and verified self-assess- ment procedures), which assesses potential deforestation at vari- ous upstream nodes in Continental’s natural rubber supply chain. To purchase natural rubber from responsible sources, Continental uses the digital trading platform Agridence (formerly HeveaCon- nect). Standardized information on compliance with social and en- vironmental standards, quality criteria and average sales prices can be viewed transparently on the platform. At the same time, the plat- form offers the opportunity to incorporate information from the analyses of the Rubberway platform. In addition, collaboration with industry to improve the methods and compliance with due diligence is another important process. Conti- nental is a member of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR). This includes annual reporting on progress and supports an industry-wide learning approach, which contributes to the effectiveness of the management approach. As a potential future lever to reduce some pressure on ecosystems, Continental has established research and development project called “Taraxagum”, which investigates and develops the potential of natural rubber from dandelions as a substitute for natural rubber from rubber trees in tropical regions. Traceability mechanisms have been implemented to improve, in particular, understanding and transparency in natural rubber pur- chasing. The Rubberway platform in particular, which was devel- oped in an industry collaboration, is used to trace natural rubber back to the natural rubber plantation. The management approach does not include regular monitoring of biodiversity status as well as its gains or losses. Nevertheless, Conti- nental takes into account the aspect of responsible sourcing and consumption from ecosystems, especially with regard to fulfilling high conservation standards and sustainable natural rubber cultiva- tion practices. Beyond the formalization of the overall management approaches in internal rules, as described in the management approaches to Envi- ronmental protection in the supply chain, Continental’s set of rules for biodiversity in responsible purchasing include the following public frameworks in particular: › Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy, › Commitments to a responsible value chain (RVC commitments), › Business Partner Code of Conduct. The management approaches are guided especially by regulatory requirements for due diligence, such as the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LksG) and EUDR. In addition, the management approach was harmonized with the GPSNR. The GPSNR is a platform that brings together different stakeholders and takes into account the interests of its members (from small- holders to natural rubber processors, tire and automotive manufac- turers, as well as civil society organizations). In addition, public con- sultations with non-members are held. The policies are communicated externally through our website and internally via Continental’s various channels. In addition, every new and existing direct supplier is requested to sign the Business Part- ner Code of Conduct. Downstream value chain Continental’s management approach to the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain addresses pollu- tion and climate change as key drivers of biodiversity loss. The re- lated management approaches are described in other sections in this sustainability report. › Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition with regard to climate change-related negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. This management approach addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy de- ployment. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change miti- gation, adaptation to climate change, energy efficiency and re- newable energy in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. › Product-related aspects relating to environmental protection with regard to the product-specific reduction of pollution in the prod- uct use phase. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection Management approaches to pollution prevention in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 157 Due to the nature of Continental’s products, the driver change in the land use (e.g. road infrastructure) in the downstream value chain is considered out of Continental’s scope of influence. There- fore, no specific management approach was defined for the driver change in the land use. Continental’s management approaches relate to the following di- rect drivers of biodiversity loss listed in ESRS E4, AR4: › Climate change, › Pollution. Continental has not identified any material risks related to biodiver- sity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain. Biodiversity and ecosystems-related social consequences in the downstream value chain are not considered separately in the man- agement approaches. Along the downstream value chain, the traceability of products and thus the product-related impacts are extremely limited due to the nature of the products and are therefore not taken into account in the management approaches. Targets Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to biodiversity and ecosystems, it was decided to pur- sue the defined management approaches and not to set a time- bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the tracking of progress is described in the related management ap- proaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems beyond the described man- agement approaches."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 158 Consideration of Biodiversity and Ecosystems in the Strategy and Business Model Relation to strategy and business model The impacts and risks identified in relation to biodiversity and eco- systems are by definition related to Continental’s strategy and busi- ness model. Integration into Continental’s strategy and business model is described in this section in the management approaches Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain as well as Down- stream value chain. In addition, the analysis of the resilience of Continental’s strategy and business model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems along the entire value chain is integrated into the general IRO as- sessment (see subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section). Resilience of strategy and business model The focus of the resilience analysis is on the combined transition and systemic risk related to deforestation regulation and has been incorporated into the general IRO assessment. In the process of identifying and assessing risks and opportunities as part of the general IRO assessment, Continental took into con- sideration several factors and scenarios, as described in the IROs. The use of scenarios and assumptions by definition leads to uncer- tainties in the outcome of the analysis. To assess the resilience of Continental’s business model to the identified risks and opportunities, a net assessment was carried out taking into account the existing management approaches related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Based on the identified risks, the upstream value chain represents the focus of the resilience analysis. The key assumptions of the identified risks were the assumed de- velopment of regulation and market developments, as described in the respective risks. This includes especially the expected imple- mentation of the EUDR. The stakeholders were involved in the assessment as described in the general methodology of the IRO assessment in the subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities presented in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Continental has assessed its material risks in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems and especially in relation to deforestation, with a focus on a medium-term time horizon. Based on the IRO assessment and taking into account the manage- ment approaches, Continental considers its business activities to be resilient. The management approaches in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems describe Continental’s current ability to reduce its material negative impacts, manage risks and seize opportunities. Continental also assumes that these skills will continue to develop over time."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 159 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to resource use and circular economy. They have been grouped together into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are pre- sented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the re- spective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and correspond- ing reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, their descriptions are pre- sented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, con- siders the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Circularity › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental and its direct suppliers and indirect suppliers along the supply chain also operate in industries and types of operations which involve significant sourcing of raw ma- terials from primary or non-renewable sources (including fossil- based materials and materials from mining). (see ESRS 2, IRO ta- ble, impact 33) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers also operate in industries and specific markets which could be subject to regulation related to the use of non-renewable respec- tively renewable and non-recycled respectively recycled re- sources as well as the related market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 36) › Continental operates in industries which are not yet fully circular. The global product and material cycles for electronic compo- nents, tires, industrial components and other products are only partially closed. Considering the total amount of material in Conti- nental’s products, the related end-of-life-disposal of Continental’s products therefore contributes substantively to waste generation. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 34) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because of circularity-related regulatory re- quirements and market trends. Related regulatory requirements such as climate protection regulations can also be important for circularity. Given the broadness of Continental’s portfolio, many product segments and the business with many customer groups could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respec- tive business activities, especially in the long term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 37) Waste in own operations › Continental currently generates non-recyclable waste (including hazardous waste) in own operations, which is sent to landfill or in- cineration plants. This leads to limited negative impacts on circu- lar economy and is therefore considered relevant for corporate responsibility. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 35) › Continental’s waste management could open up moderate finan- cial opportunities by reducing operational costs, if waste manage- ment and waste handling are further improved in the medium term. This opportunity is considered relevant from an ESRS re- porting perspective. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 38) Resource Use and Circular Economy (ESRS E5)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 160 Management Approaches for Resource Use and Circular Economy In the area of resource use and circular economy, Continental has developed the management approaches Circularity and Waste in own operations in order to manage the described impacts, risks and opportunities. Circularity Our management approach for circularity aims to contribute to Continental’s sustainability ambition and achieve 100 % closed re- source and product loops by 2050 at the latest. Besides fulfilling this ambition, this management approach strives to mitigate re- lated risks in the area of circularity considering the different require- ments and speeds of transformation of our customers, industries and markets. The management approach encompasses the upstream and down- stream value chain as well as Continental’s own operations and also includes switching from the use of primary to secondary resources and materials. The procurement of renewable and recycled (secondary) materials is a key element here. The management approach applies to the entire Group and the product portfolio and covers resource inflows and outflows. The responsible business functions bear the responsibility for the management and adaptation of the respective product portfolio. Oversight of the effectiveness of portfolio management is exercised by the group sector boards and the Executive Board of Continental. Key processes are handled by the respective departments within the company, e.g. research and development (R&D), product de- sign, supply chain management and purchasing. These are sup- ported by the sustainability departments. The management approach includes specific process regarding re- source inflows and outflows considering technological, biological and product cycles. For resource inflows, the related key measures regarding purchased resources are mainly managed in purchasing, product design and R&D processes. The process of material approval, managed by R&D, serves among other purposes the identification of recycled and renewable materi- als to be introduced in production processes. The process of mate- rial approval usually consists of a laboratory evaluation, followed by testing and a processing evaluation before a material is released. The sourcing of renewable and recycled materials partially includes active supplier development, which is managed by the purchasing departments, as well as the sourcing of materials within traceability mechanisms like the mass balance approach. In addition, Continental engages with selected suppliers in strategic supplier meetings to intensify activities regarding circularity such as through respective adaptation in product design and material composition. For resource outflows, the management approach comprises measures with regard to the circularity of products that are mainly managed within product design as well as R&D processes, with a focus on improved reusability, repairability, recyclability, durability and overall circularity. This includes own activities as well as indus- try cooperations and partnerships. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the traceability of dedicated materials, Continental applies the ISCC PLUS framework as described in more detail in the following subsections of this section. The management approach and the related measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and re- quests of investors. For resource inflows, especially direct suppliers as part of the upstream value chain are directly involved. For re- source outflows, the perspectives of stakeholders relevant to end- of-life treatment are also taken into account, for example in industry initiatives. Continental communicates its approach to managing circularity ex- ternally through the publication of the annual report as well as trade fairs, press releases and dialogues with investors, and inter- nally using various channels such as conferences on sustainability and products, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Waste in own operations To minimize the negative impact of landfilling or incineration of non-recyclable waste from own operations and to make the best possible use of opportunities in relation to waste efficiency, Conti- nental has developed a management approach for waste that is in- tegrated into the general environmental management. A defined waste hierarchy has been introduced at the locations for this pur- pose. It prioritizes actions to reduce waste generation, followed by reusing materials, recycling, and recovering energy from waste. The least preferred option is disposal, such as landfill. By following this hierarchy, we can reduce environmental impact and promote sus- tainable use of resources. Continental strives to gradually reduce the amount of waste and the generation of waste at its locations step by step and year by year. Due to the different business activi- ties within the company, specific programs are designed by the in- dividual group sectors in line with respective needs."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 158 Consideration of Biodiversity and Ecosystems in the Strategy and Business Model Relation to strategy and business model The impacts and risks identified in relation to biodiversity and eco- systems are by definition related to Continental’s strategy and busi- ness model. Integration into Continental’s strategy and business model is described in this section in the management approaches Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain as well as Down- stream value chain. In addition, the analysis of the resilience of Continental’s strategy and business model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems along the entire value chain is integrated into the general IRO as- sessment (see subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section). Resilience of strategy and business model The focus of the resilience analysis is on the combined transition and systemic risk related to deforestation regulation and has been incorporated into the general IRO assessment. In the process of identifying and assessing risks and opportunities as part of the general IRO assessment, Continental took into con- sideration several factors and scenarios, as described in the IROs. The use of scenarios and assumptions by definition leads to uncer- tainties in the outcome of the analysis. To assess the resilience of Continental’s business model to the identified risks and opportunities, a net assessment was carried out taking into account the existing management approaches related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Based on the identified risks, the upstream value chain represents the focus of the resilience analysis. The key assumptions of the identified risks were the assumed de- velopment of regulation and market developments, as described in the respective risks. This includes especially the expected imple- mentation of the EUDR. The stakeholders were involved in the assessment as described in the general methodology of the IRO assessment in the subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities presented in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Continental has assessed its material risks in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems and especially in relation to deforestation, with a focus on a medium-term time horizon. Based on the IRO assessment and taking into account the manage- ment approaches, Continental considers its business activities to be resilient. The management approaches in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems describe Continental’s current ability to reduce its material negative impacts, manage risks and seize opportunities. Continental also assumes that these skills will continue to develop over time."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 159 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to resource use and circular economy. They have been grouped together into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are pre- sented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the re- spective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and correspond- ing reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, their descriptions are pre- sented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, con- siders the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Circularity › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental and its direct suppliers and indirect suppliers along the supply chain also operate in industries and types of operations which involve significant sourcing of raw ma- terials from primary or non-renewable sources (including fossil- based materials and materials from mining). (see ESRS 2, IRO ta- ble, impact 33) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers also operate in industries and specific markets which could be subject to regulation related to the use of non-renewable respec- tively renewable and non-recycled respectively recycled re- sources as well as the related market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 36) › Continental operates in industries which are not yet fully circular. The global product and material cycles for electronic compo- nents, tires, industrial components and other products are only partially closed. Considering the total amount of material in Conti- nental’s products, the related end-of-life-disposal of Continental’s products therefore contributes substantively to waste generation. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 34) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because of circularity-related regulatory re- quirements and market trends. Related regulatory requirements such as climate protection regulations can also be important for circularity. Given the broadness of Continental’s portfolio, many product segments and the business with many customer groups could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respec- tive business activities, especially in the long term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 37) Waste in own operations › Continental currently generates non-recyclable waste (including hazardous waste) in own operations, which is sent to landfill or in- cineration plants. This leads to limited negative impacts on circu- lar economy and is therefore considered relevant for corporate responsibility. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 35) › Continental’s waste management could open up moderate finan- cial opportunities by reducing operational costs, if waste manage- ment and waste handling are further improved in the medium term. This opportunity is considered relevant from an ESRS re- porting perspective. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 38) Resource Use and Circular Economy (ESRS E5)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 160 Management Approaches for Resource Use and Circular Economy In the area of resource use and circular economy, Continental has developed the management approaches Circularity and Waste in own operations in order to manage the described impacts, risks and opportunities. Circularity Our management approach for circularity aims to contribute to Continental’s sustainability ambition and achieve 100 % closed re- source and product loops by 2050 at the latest. Besides fulfilling this ambition, this management approach strives to mitigate re- lated risks in the area of circularity considering the different require- ments and speeds of transformation of our customers, industries and markets. The management approach encompasses the upstream and down- stream value chain as well as Continental’s own operations and also includes switching from the use of primary to secondary resources and materials. The procurement of renewable and recycled (secondary) materials is a key element here. The management approach applies to the entire Group and the product portfolio and covers resource inflows and outflows. The responsible business functions bear the responsibility for the management and adaptation of the respective product portfolio. Oversight of the effectiveness of portfolio management is exercised by the group sector boards and the Executive Board of Continental. Key processes are handled by the respective departments within the company, e.g. research and development (R&D), product de- sign, supply chain management and purchasing. These are sup- ported by the sustainability departments. The management approach includes specific process regarding re- source inflows and outflows considering technological, biological and product cycles. For resource inflows, the related key measures regarding purchased resources are mainly managed in purchasing, product design and R&D processes. The process of material approval, managed by R&D, serves among other purposes the identification of recycled and renewable materi- als to be introduced in production processes. The process of mate- rial approval usually consists of a laboratory evaluation, followed by testing and a processing evaluation before a material is released. The sourcing of renewable and recycled materials partially includes active supplier development, which is managed by the purchasing departments, as well as the sourcing of materials within traceability mechanisms like the mass balance approach. In addition, Continental engages with selected suppliers in strategic supplier meetings to intensify activities regarding circularity such as through respective adaptation in product design and material composition. For resource outflows, the management approach comprises measures with regard to the circularity of products that are mainly managed within product design as well as R&D processes, with a focus on improved reusability, repairability, recyclability, durability and overall circularity. This includes own activities as well as indus- try cooperations and partnerships. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the traceability of dedicated materials, Continental applies the ISCC PLUS framework as described in more detail in the following subsections of this section. The management approach and the related measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and re- quests of investors. For resource inflows, especially direct suppliers as part of the upstream value chain are directly involved. For re- source outflows, the perspectives of stakeholders relevant to end- of-life treatment are also taken into account, for example in industry initiatives. Continental communicates its approach to managing circularity ex- ternally through the publication of the annual report as well as trade fairs, press releases and dialogues with investors, and inter- nally using various channels such as conferences on sustainability and products, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Waste in own operations To minimize the negative impact of landfilling or incineration of non-recyclable waste from own operations and to make the best possible use of opportunities in relation to waste efficiency, Conti- nental has developed a management approach for waste that is in- tegrated into the general environmental management. A defined waste hierarchy has been introduced at the locations for this pur- pose. It prioritizes actions to reduce waste generation, followed by reusing materials, recycling, and recovering energy from waste. The least preferred option is disposal, such as landfill. By following this hierarchy, we can reduce environmental impact and promote sus- tainable use of resources. Continental strives to gradually reduce the amount of waste and the generation of waste at its locations step by step and year by year. Due to the different business activi- ties within the company, specific programs are designed by the in- dividual group sectors in line with respective needs."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 161 The management approach for waste in own operations covers the entire Continental Group. Continental’s environmental strategy is steered and approved by the Executive Board. The associated programs are coordinated in internal committees of the environmental protection departments. The waste management is embedded in Continental's environmen- tal management systems. Waste-related processes are monitored and continuously improved as part of the general reviews of environmental management. Continental’s environmental management system was developed in accordance with ISO 14001, an internationally recognized standard for environmental management systems from the International Or- ganization for Standardization (ISO). The management approach reflects the interests of various stake- holders by using the widely accepted waste hierarchy and the adher- ence to ISO 14001. The direct interaction with stakeholders in rela- tion to waste takes place in particular with the responsible authorities. Continental communicates its management approach to waste management through various channels to ensure comprehensive understanding and engagement across the entire company. This includes information on the intranet, which makes the approach and specific internal rules accessible to all employees. Targets Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy As part of its sustainability ambition in relation to circularity and carbon neutrality, Continental has set a public sustainability target for the Tires group sector with regard to recycled and renewable material inflows. Continental has set for itself the target of increas- ing the share of recycled and renewable production materials for tires to at least 40 % by 2030. The target is related to Continental’s management approaches Cir- cularity as noted in this section, and Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section of this sustainability report. The processes of the management ap- proach to circularity in terms of resource inflows are decisive for achieving the defined target. These are focused on resource inflow and enable this target to be achieved, as increased share of recy- cled and renewable materials is expected to lead to a lower carbon footprint for materials while at the same time enabling closed-loop resource cycles. Continental has identified key levers regarding resource inflows to increase the share of recycled and renewable tire production mate- rials. These comprise measures on the selection of recycled and re- newable materials, which are usually managed by R&D, as well as the identification of new suppliers and the further development of existing suppliers to secure relevant quantities of recycled and re- newable materials in the purchasing processes. These are set out in specific material roadmaps and are regularly updated. Correspond- ing certifications of origin or other instruments for origin and trace- ability contribute towards achieving the target by making it possi- ble to create transparency in the supply chains. Transitioning away from non-renewable resources will be achieved by replacing non-renewable materials with alternatives from renew- able sources. In addition, the replacement of primary materials with materials from secondary sources, e.g. from recycling processes, contribute towards achieving the target. For selecting renewable and recycled materials, the technical ability to integrate these with- out compromising safety and performance into our tires is prereq- uisite. This is ensured in the general process of material approval by R&D through detailed assessments and tests that take into ac- count the material characteristics, their interdependencies in the overall material composition and the tires as the end product. In general, some materials can be replaced by technically identical al- ternatives without changing the material composition or the end product, e.g. when a primary material is replaced by the same but recycled material. In addition, in some cases, replacing materials with alternative and technically slightly different yet renewable or recycled materials can lead to smaller differences in the end prod- uct. In doing so, Continental always ensures the same level of prod- uct safety and performance as well as takes further relevant bound- ary conditions into account. Based on the materials identified and approved as recycled or re- newable resource inflow, a joint strategy development process takes place between purchasing, R&D and sustainability. For materi- als identified with a potential to contribute to the target in a signifi- cant manner, dedicated material roadmaps are developed and maintained by the purchasing departments. These roadmaps as- sess the general availability of the respective materials for the re- quired quantities and allow conclusive analysis on their availability"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 162 on the market at economically compatible costs. Securing suffi- cient quantities of these materials is ensured through a balanced purchasing strategy that includes long-term contractual agree- ments as well as short-term purchasing activities for flexibility in dy- namic markets. The transparency and provision of evidence of the use of renewa- ble and recycled materials is a key lever to achieving the set target. As for many of our highly complex chemical value chains, material flows can hardly be traced physically on one-on-one level. There- fore, Continental also applies the mass balance approach (MBA) to purchases of materials, e.g. within the scope of ISCC PLUS. The pur- chasing departments as well as the sustainability department of the Tires group sector are primarily managing related activities. The scope of this sustainability target relates to all materials for tire production in the Tires group sector’s own operations. The retread- ing of tires as well as non-production materials are not taken into account in achieving this target. This intensity target is measured on the basis of the metric for the weight share of renewable and recycled materials for tires produc- tion as a percentage. The base year is 2024 and therefore the baseline value corresponds with the current result of the metric. No interim targets have been set. The overall commonly recognized concept of circularity includes in particular recycling and the use of renewable resources following with scientific studies. Continental’s target setting follows this gen- eral approach but does not consider a specific methodology for sci- ence-based target setting. In order to ensure the accuracy of material inflows accounted as re- cycled or renewable, mass balance approaches prevailed as feasi- ble option in the past years in complex value chains. It allows regu- lated, transparent and certified accounting of respective materials. Continental follows those commonly recognized certification schemes with the mass balance approach. The methodology for calculating the metric is described in the cor- responding explanations for the metric. The target was defined based on internal qualitative analysis and calculations with regards to the increase of the share of recycled and renewable materials. In general, materials are classified as renewable due to their general origin, and as recycled if they are of secondary origin. Renewable materials include bio-based resources that can return to their previ- ous stock levels through natural growth or renewal processes at a rate in line with use cycles. The target level of at least 40 % was de- fined based on internal feasibility studies as well as market extrapo- lations. The target takes into account the interests of different stakeholders such as customers using direct and indirect consultations. In the reporting period, the target was reported for the very first time. Continental’s target focuses on the resource inflows, especially with regard to the increase in the share of renewable and secondary materials as well as the reduction in the use of primary materials. We follow the cascading principle to use raw materials or products made of them for as long, as often and as efficiently as possible. The target in particular supports the recycling level of the waste hi- erarchy. The target has been set voluntarily to support the transition to- wards closed resource and product cycles."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 163 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has introduced concrete key actions to achieve the tar- get of at least 40 % recycled and renewable materials share in tire production by 2030. These actions mainly relate to the key levers of material identification, strategies for securing sufficient supplies and traceability, e.g. via the mass balance approach. Overall, actions related to the target are also strongly connected with the overall management approach of circularity. In order to be able to react flexibly to the changing market situation and changing needs, the actions are further developed step by step. The identification of renewable and recycled materials is one deci- sive factor to reach the target. Thus, the research and development department is continuously monitoring alternative materials to re- place non-renewable sources with renewable sources and primary sources with secondary sources. Innovative approaches are pur- sued as the usage of plant-based materials instead of fossil-based fillers, oils and resins. The activities aimed at increasing the share of recycled or renewable materials are inherently embedded into the operational processes of R&D. Thus, there is one overall process for material identification including material approval that is identical for recycled and renewable materials as well as non-recycled and non-renewable materials. As the availability of certain materials is crucial, there is a defined set of renewable and recycled materials suitable to enable reaching the target. These materials are identified by internal experts from R&D, sustainability and purchasing. This serves as a foundation to develop corresponding material roadmaps and purchasing strate- gies which are continuously monitored and updated. Materials that contribute towards increasing the share of recycled and renewable production materials in the initial steps are, in particular, recovered carbon black and recycled polyester. On the basis of the identified materials that contribute towards achieving the target of a minimum of 40 % recycled and renewable materials for tire production, purchasing strategies including mate- rial roadmaps are created with the involvement of experts from purchasing, R&D and sustainability. The creation and review of these roadmaps defines the overall framework of measures for the long-term procurement of the respective materials with implemen- tation scenarios. In addition, concrete short-term actions are devel- oped on this basis as flexible elements such as material-specific procurement activities in order to react to changing market situa- tions. These plans are coordinated and agreed with the board of the Tires group sector, and regularly reviewed and adapted as needed. While the integration of selected materials requires only limited adaptation in production processes, their availability in terms of large volumes at economically compatible cost is a deci- sive factor. In any case, Continental guarantees the same uniform level of safety and performance of all our tires. Whenever possible, Continental strives to secure volumes of relevant materials in the long term. For the Tires group sector, natural rubber is a key raw material that also contributes towards the share of renewable and recycled pro- duction materials. Therefore, with our partnerships along the value chain and the corresponding purchasing strategies, Continental will continue to source natural rubber and secure sufficient quantities for the coming years. As concrete examples of actions that contrib- ute towards achieving the target, Continental invests in processes for obtaining high-quality recycled materials for example through the strategic partnership with Pyrum to implement a circular ap- proach to recycling of old tires. Using a special pyrolysis process, carbon black, oil and gas are recovered as secondary resources and used for the production of new tires, among other purposes. Similarly, with its ContiRe.Tex solution, Continental has invented to- gether with the partner Otiz a process for high-performance yarn that allows conventional polyester to be replaced with polyester made from recycled PET-bottles. First products with recycled PET bottles are already introduced and a global rollout of this material in all Continental tire plants is foreseen within the year 2025. The creation of transparency and reliable information on recycled and renewable materials through the various steps in our complex value chains is a key action for Continental. Over the last few years, mass balance approaches prevailed as standard especially in chem- ical industry, allowing the regulated and transparent accounting of the quantities and the respective characteristics of recycled and re- newable materials. We see mass balance approaches as a neces- sary tool for the transition away from fossil resources in our mate- rial value chains. It reduces complexity, speeds up the adoption of materials and ensures continuous supply. If materials certified as re- cycled or renewable are combined with other non-certified materi- als in production processes, accounting following the mass balance approach ensures accurate recording and allocation of the respec- tive certified shares according to the actual material inflows. In this way, the quantities accounted as recycled and renewable are corre- spondingly certified and made transparent and traceable along the entire value chain. We therefore require suppliers to actively partici- pate in these frameworks where relevant, for example ISCC PLUS. The actions with regards to increasing the recycled and renewable share in tire production materials are embedded into operational activities especially in the areas of research and development and purchasing. The actions include short- and medium-term measures. The progress of the related actions (in the reporting year) is espe- cially measured by the progress of the target KPI"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 156 Continental requires its business partners in the natural rubber sup- ply chain to comply with the Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy in their own operations and further expects them to adhere to these principles throughout their entire value chain. The require- ments from supplier obligations can lead to audits and follow-up measures, e.g. corrective action plans (CAPs) or other mitigation measures. As part of its joint development partnership with the Deutsche Ge- sellschaft für internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), Continental is conducting training courses directly on site for small farmers in In- donesia to promote sustainable farming methods. Another relevant purchasing process is a so-called “risk mapping” (e.g. based on the Rubberway risk analysis and verified self-assess- ment procedures), which assesses potential deforestation at vari- ous upstream nodes in Continental’s natural rubber supply chain. To purchase natural rubber from responsible sources, Continental uses the digital trading platform Agridence (formerly HeveaCon- nect). Standardized information on compliance with social and en- vironmental standards, quality criteria and average sales prices can be viewed transparently on the platform. At the same time, the plat- form offers the opportunity to incorporate information from the analyses of the Rubberway platform. In addition, collaboration with industry to improve the methods and compliance with due diligence is another important process. Conti- nental is a member of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR). This includes annual reporting on progress and supports an industry-wide learning approach, which contributes to the effectiveness of the management approach. As a potential future lever to reduce some pressure on ecosystems, Continental has established research and development project called “Taraxagum”, which investigates and develops the potential of natural rubber from dandelions as a substitute for natural rubber from rubber trees in tropical regions. Traceability mechanisms have been implemented to improve, in particular, understanding and transparency in natural rubber pur- chasing. The Rubberway platform in particular, which was devel- oped in an industry collaboration, is used to trace natural rubber back to the natural rubber plantation. The management approach does not include regular monitoring of biodiversity status as well as its gains or losses. Nevertheless, Conti- nental takes into account the aspect of responsible sourcing and consumption from ecosystems, especially with regard to fulfilling high conservation standards and sustainable natural rubber cultiva- tion practices. Beyond the formalization of the overall management approaches in internal rules, as described in the management approaches to Envi- ronmental protection in the supply chain, Continental’s set of rules for biodiversity in responsible purchasing include the following public frameworks in particular: › Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy, › Commitments to a responsible value chain (RVC commitments), › Business Partner Code of Conduct. The management approaches are guided especially by regulatory requirements for due diligence, such as the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LksG) and EUDR. In addition, the management approach was harmonized with the GPSNR. The GPSNR is a platform that brings together different stakeholders and takes into account the interests of its members (from small- holders to natural rubber processors, tire and automotive manufac- turers, as well as civil society organizations). In addition, public con- sultations with non-members are held. The policies are communicated externally through our website and internally via Continental’s various channels. In addition, every new and existing direct supplier is requested to sign the Business Part- ner Code of Conduct. Downstream value chain Continental’s management approach to the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain addresses pollu- tion and climate change as key drivers of biodiversity loss. The re- lated management approaches are described in other sections in this sustainability report. › Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition with regard to climate change-related negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. This management approach addresses climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and renewable energy de- ployment. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection on Management approaches to climate change miti- gation, adaptation to climate change, energy efficiency and re- newable energy in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section. › Product-related aspects relating to environmental protection with regard to the product-specific reduction of pollution in the prod- uct use phase. The corresponding descriptions can be found in the subsection Management approaches to pollution prevention in the Pollution (ESRS E2) section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 157 Due to the nature of Continental’s products, the driver change in the land use (e.g. road infrastructure) in the downstream value chain is considered out of Continental’s scope of influence. There- fore, no specific management approach was defined for the driver change in the land use. Continental’s management approaches relate to the following di- rect drivers of biodiversity loss listed in ESRS E4, AR4: › Climate change, › Pollution. Continental has not identified any material risks related to biodiver- sity and ecosystems in the downstream value chain. Biodiversity and ecosystems-related social consequences in the downstream value chain are not considered separately in the man- agement approaches. Along the downstream value chain, the traceability of products and thus the product-related impacts are extremely limited due to the nature of the products and are therefore not taken into account in the management approaches. Targets Related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems Continental has defined a systematic process for setting targets. With regard to biodiversity and ecosystems, it was decided to pur- sue the defined management approaches and not to set a time- bound sustainability target. The monitoring of effectiveness and the tracking of progress is described in the related management ap- proaches and reported metrics. Key Actions for Target Achievement In Continental’s view, key actions to be reported relate directly to corresponding targets, where available. Therefore, in accordance with this definition, Continental has not defined any key actions in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems beyond the described man- agement approaches."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 158 Consideration of Biodiversity and Ecosystems in the Strategy and Business Model Relation to strategy and business model The impacts and risks identified in relation to biodiversity and eco- systems are by definition related to Continental’s strategy and busi- ness model. Integration into Continental’s strategy and business model is described in this section in the management approaches Responsible purchasing and upstream value chain as well as Down- stream value chain. In addition, the analysis of the resilience of Continental’s strategy and business model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems along the entire value chain is integrated into the general IRO as- sessment (see subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section). Resilience of strategy and business model The focus of the resilience analysis is on the combined transition and systemic risk related to deforestation regulation and has been incorporated into the general IRO assessment. In the process of identifying and assessing risks and opportunities as part of the general IRO assessment, Continental took into con- sideration several factors and scenarios, as described in the IROs. The use of scenarios and assumptions by definition leads to uncer- tainties in the outcome of the analysis. To assess the resilience of Continental’s business model to the identified risks and opportunities, a net assessment was carried out taking into account the existing management approaches related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Based on the identified risks, the upstream value chain represents the focus of the resilience analysis. The key assumptions of the identified risks were the assumed de- velopment of regulation and market developments, as described in the respective risks. This includes especially the expected imple- mentation of the EUDR. The stakeholders were involved in the assessment as described in the general methodology of the IRO assessment in the subsection Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities presented in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Continental has assessed its material risks in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems and especially in relation to deforestation, with a focus on a medium-term time horizon. Based on the IRO assessment and taking into account the manage- ment approaches, Continental considers its business activities to be resilient. The management approaches in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems describe Continental’s current ability to reduce its material negative impacts, manage risks and seize opportunities. Continental also assumes that these skills will continue to develop over time."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 159 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy Continental assessed its potential and actual negative and positive impacts as well as risks and opportunities related to sustainability according to the regulatory requirements and as described in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The general disclosures in- clude an overview of the assessment of all identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs), including the time horizons considered. In this IRO assessment, the following material potential and actual negative impacts, risks and opportunities have been identified in re- lation to resource use and circular economy. They have been grouped together into IRO clusters for easier understanding and reading. The descriptions of the negative impacts and risks are pre- sented from a gross perspective which, on the basis of applied methodology, does not take into account mitigation through the management approaches of Continental as described in the re- spective IRO cluster. This perspective is used to determine where appropriate management approaches are relevant and correspond- ing reporting is required. As opportunities are strengthened by Continental’s management approaches, their descriptions are pre- sented taking a net perspective which, for methodical reasons, con- siders the results of the management approaches. The descriptions of the IROs are to be regarded as self-contained, which may result in repetitions. Circularity › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Continental and its direct suppliers and indirect suppliers along the supply chain also operate in industries and types of operations which involve significant sourcing of raw ma- terials from primary or non-renewable sources (including fossil- based materials and materials from mining). (see ESRS 2, IRO ta- ble, impact 33) › Continental buys numerous products and services from a global supplier base. Therefore, Continental’s direct and indirect suppli- ers also operate in industries and specific markets which could be subject to regulation related to the use of non-renewable respec- tively renewable and non-recycled respectively recycled re- sources as well as the related market transition. This can lead to significantly higher costs for materials, components or services especially in the medium term, if not managed preventively. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 36) › Continental operates in industries which are not yet fully circular. The global product and material cycles for electronic compo- nents, tires, industrial components and other products are only partially closed. Considering the total amount of material in Conti- nental’s products, the related end-of-life-disposal of Continental’s products therefore contributes substantively to waste generation. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 34) › Continental’s product portfolio serves markets which are trans- forming considerably because of circularity-related regulatory re- quirements and market trends. Related regulatory requirements such as climate protection regulations can also be important for circularity. Given the broadness of Continental’s portfolio, many product segments and the business with many customer groups could face transformational challenges and the speed of change could exceed the potential speed of adaptation. This could, if not managed adequately, lead to a critical loss in sales in the respec- tive business activities, especially in the long term. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, risk 37) Waste in own operations › Continental currently generates non-recyclable waste (including hazardous waste) in own operations, which is sent to landfill or in- cineration plants. This leads to limited negative impacts on circu- lar economy and is therefore considered relevant for corporate responsibility. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, impact 35) › Continental’s waste management could open up moderate finan- cial opportunities by reducing operational costs, if waste manage- ment and waste handling are further improved in the medium term. This opportunity is considered relevant from an ESRS re- porting perspective. (see ESRS 2, IRO table, opportunity 38) Resource Use and Circular Economy (ESRS E5)"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 160 Management Approaches for Resource Use and Circular Economy In the area of resource use and circular economy, Continental has developed the management approaches Circularity and Waste in own operations in order to manage the described impacts, risks and opportunities. Circularity Our management approach for circularity aims to contribute to Continental’s sustainability ambition and achieve 100 % closed re- source and product loops by 2050 at the latest. Besides fulfilling this ambition, this management approach strives to mitigate re- lated risks in the area of circularity considering the different require- ments and speeds of transformation of our customers, industries and markets. The management approach encompasses the upstream and down- stream value chain as well as Continental’s own operations and also includes switching from the use of primary to secondary resources and materials. The procurement of renewable and recycled (secondary) materials is a key element here. The management approach applies to the entire Group and the product portfolio and covers resource inflows and outflows. The responsible business functions bear the responsibility for the management and adaptation of the respective product portfolio. Oversight of the effectiveness of portfolio management is exercised by the group sector boards and the Executive Board of Continental. Key processes are handled by the respective departments within the company, e.g. research and development (R&D), product de- sign, supply chain management and purchasing. These are sup- ported by the sustainability departments. The management approach includes specific process regarding re- source inflows and outflows considering technological, biological and product cycles. For resource inflows, the related key measures regarding purchased resources are mainly managed in purchasing, product design and R&D processes. The process of material approval, managed by R&D, serves among other purposes the identification of recycled and renewable materi- als to be introduced in production processes. The process of mate- rial approval usually consists of a laboratory evaluation, followed by testing and a processing evaluation before a material is released. The sourcing of renewable and recycled materials partially includes active supplier development, which is managed by the purchasing departments, as well as the sourcing of materials within traceability mechanisms like the mass balance approach. In addition, Continental engages with selected suppliers in strategic supplier meetings to intensify activities regarding circularity such as through respective adaptation in product design and material composition. For resource outflows, the management approach comprises measures with regard to the circularity of products that are mainly managed within product design as well as R&D processes, with a focus on improved reusability, repairability, recyclability, durability and overall circularity. This includes own activities as well as indus- try cooperations and partnerships. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the traceability of dedicated materials, Continental applies the ISCC PLUS framework as described in more detail in the following subsections of this section. The management approach and the related measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and re- quests of investors. For resource inflows, especially direct suppliers as part of the upstream value chain are directly involved. For re- source outflows, the perspectives of stakeholders relevant to end- of-life treatment are also taken into account, for example in industry initiatives. Continental communicates its approach to managing circularity ex- ternally through the publication of the annual report as well as trade fairs, press releases and dialogues with investors, and inter- nally using various channels such as conferences on sustainability and products, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Waste in own operations To minimize the negative impact of landfilling or incineration of non-recyclable waste from own operations and to make the best possible use of opportunities in relation to waste efficiency, Conti- nental has developed a management approach for waste that is in- tegrated into the general environmental management. A defined waste hierarchy has been introduced at the locations for this pur- pose. It prioritizes actions to reduce waste generation, followed by reusing materials, recycling, and recovering energy from waste. The least preferred option is disposal, such as landfill. By following this hierarchy, we can reduce environmental impact and promote sus- tainable use of resources. Continental strives to gradually reduce the amount of waste and the generation of waste at its locations step by step and year by year. Due to the different business activi- ties within the company, specific programs are designed by the in- dividual group sectors in line with respective needs."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 161 The management approach for waste in own operations covers the entire Continental Group. Continental’s environmental strategy is steered and approved by the Executive Board. The associated programs are coordinated in internal committees of the environmental protection departments. The waste management is embedded in Continental's environmen- tal management systems. Waste-related processes are monitored and continuously improved as part of the general reviews of environmental management. Continental’s environmental management system was developed in accordance with ISO 14001, an internationally recognized standard for environmental management systems from the International Or- ganization for Standardization (ISO). The management approach reflects the interests of various stake- holders by using the widely accepted waste hierarchy and the adher- ence to ISO 14001. The direct interaction with stakeholders in rela- tion to waste takes place in particular with the responsible authorities. Continental communicates its management approach to waste management through various channels to ensure comprehensive understanding and engagement across the entire company. This includes information on the intranet, which makes the approach and specific internal rules accessible to all employees. Targets Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy As part of its sustainability ambition in relation to circularity and carbon neutrality, Continental has set a public sustainability target for the Tires group sector with regard to recycled and renewable material inflows. Continental has set for itself the target of increas- ing the share of recycled and renewable production materials for tires to at least 40 % by 2030. The target is related to Continental’s management approaches Cir- cularity as noted in this section, and Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section of this sustainability report. The processes of the management ap- proach to circularity in terms of resource inflows are decisive for achieving the defined target. These are focused on resource inflow and enable this target to be achieved, as increased share of recy- cled and renewable materials is expected to lead to a lower carbon footprint for materials while at the same time enabling closed-loop resource cycles. Continental has identified key levers regarding resource inflows to increase the share of recycled and renewable tire production mate- rials. These comprise measures on the selection of recycled and re- newable materials, which are usually managed by R&D, as well as the identification of new suppliers and the further development of existing suppliers to secure relevant quantities of recycled and re- newable materials in the purchasing processes. These are set out in specific material roadmaps and are regularly updated. Correspond- ing certifications of origin or other instruments for origin and trace- ability contribute towards achieving the target by making it possi- ble to create transparency in the supply chains. Transitioning away from non-renewable resources will be achieved by replacing non-renewable materials with alternatives from renew- able sources. In addition, the replacement of primary materials with materials from secondary sources, e.g. from recycling processes, contribute towards achieving the target. For selecting renewable and recycled materials, the technical ability to integrate these with- out compromising safety and performance into our tires is prereq- uisite. This is ensured in the general process of material approval by R&D through detailed assessments and tests that take into ac- count the material characteristics, their interdependencies in the overall material composition and the tires as the end product. In general, some materials can be replaced by technically identical al- ternatives without changing the material composition or the end product, e.g. when a primary material is replaced by the same but recycled material. In addition, in some cases, replacing materials with alternative and technically slightly different yet renewable or recycled materials can lead to smaller differences in the end prod- uct. In doing so, Continental always ensures the same level of prod- uct safety and performance as well as takes further relevant bound- ary conditions into account. Based on the materials identified and approved as recycled or re- newable resource inflow, a joint strategy development process takes place between purchasing, R&D and sustainability. For materi- als identified with a potential to contribute to the target in a signifi- cant manner, dedicated material roadmaps are developed and maintained by the purchasing departments. These roadmaps as- sess the general availability of the respective materials for the re- quired quantities and allow conclusive analysis on their availability"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 160 Management Approaches for Resource Use and Circular Economy In the area of resource use and circular economy, Continental has developed the management approaches Circularity and Waste in own operations in order to manage the described impacts, risks and opportunities. Circularity Our management approach for circularity aims to contribute to Continental’s sustainability ambition and achieve 100 % closed re- source and product loops by 2050 at the latest. Besides fulfilling this ambition, this management approach strives to mitigate re- lated risks in the area of circularity considering the different require- ments and speeds of transformation of our customers, industries and markets. The management approach encompasses the upstream and down- stream value chain as well as Continental’s own operations and also includes switching from the use of primary to secondary resources and materials. The procurement of renewable and recycled (secondary) materials is a key element here. The management approach applies to the entire Group and the product portfolio and covers resource inflows and outflows. The responsible business functions bear the responsibility for the management and adaptation of the respective product portfolio. Oversight of the effectiveness of portfolio management is exercised by the group sector boards and the Executive Board of Continental. Key processes are handled by the respective departments within the company, e.g. research and development (R&D), product de- sign, supply chain management and purchasing. These are sup- ported by the sustainability departments. The management approach includes specific process regarding re- source inflows and outflows considering technological, biological and product cycles. For resource inflows, the related key measures regarding purchased resources are mainly managed in purchasing, product design and R&D processes. The process of material approval, managed by R&D, serves among other purposes the identification of recycled and renewable materi- als to be introduced in production processes. The process of mate- rial approval usually consists of a laboratory evaluation, followed by testing and a processing evaluation before a material is released. The sourcing of renewable and recycled materials partially includes active supplier development, which is managed by the purchasing departments, as well as the sourcing of materials within traceability mechanisms like the mass balance approach. In addition, Continental engages with selected suppliers in strategic supplier meetings to intensify activities regarding circularity such as through respective adaptation in product design and material composition. For resource outflows, the management approach comprises measures with regard to the circularity of products that are mainly managed within product design as well as R&D processes, with a focus on improved reusability, repairability, recyclability, durability and overall circularity. This includes own activities as well as indus- try cooperations and partnerships. Continental’s sustainability ambition sets the overarching frame- work for the definition and implementation of measures. For the traceability of dedicated materials, Continental applies the ISCC PLUS framework as described in more detail in the following subsections of this section. The management approach and the related measures take into consideration in particular the requirements of customers and re- quests of investors. For resource inflows, especially direct suppliers as part of the upstream value chain are directly involved. For re- source outflows, the perspectives of stakeholders relevant to end- of-life treatment are also taken into account, for example in industry initiatives. Continental communicates its approach to managing circularity ex- ternally through the publication of the annual report as well as trade fairs, press releases and dialogues with investors, and inter- nally using various channels such as conferences on sustainability and products, working groups and the company-wide intranet. Waste in own operations To minimize the negative impact of landfilling or incineration of non-recyclable waste from own operations and to make the best possible use of opportunities in relation to waste efficiency, Conti- nental has developed a management approach for waste that is in- tegrated into the general environmental management. A defined waste hierarchy has been introduced at the locations for this pur- pose. It prioritizes actions to reduce waste generation, followed by reusing materials, recycling, and recovering energy from waste. The least preferred option is disposal, such as landfill. By following this hierarchy, we can reduce environmental impact and promote sus- tainable use of resources. Continental strives to gradually reduce the amount of waste and the generation of waste at its locations step by step and year by year. Due to the different business activi- ties within the company, specific programs are designed by the in- dividual group sectors in line with respective needs."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 161 The management approach for waste in own operations covers the entire Continental Group. Continental’s environmental strategy is steered and approved by the Executive Board. The associated programs are coordinated in internal committees of the environmental protection departments. The waste management is embedded in Continental's environmen- tal management systems. Waste-related processes are monitored and continuously improved as part of the general reviews of environmental management. Continental’s environmental management system was developed in accordance with ISO 14001, an internationally recognized standard for environmental management systems from the International Or- ganization for Standardization (ISO). The management approach reflects the interests of various stake- holders by using the widely accepted waste hierarchy and the adher- ence to ISO 14001. The direct interaction with stakeholders in rela- tion to waste takes place in particular with the responsible authorities. Continental communicates its management approach to waste management through various channels to ensure comprehensive understanding and engagement across the entire company. This includes information on the intranet, which makes the approach and specific internal rules accessible to all employees. Targets Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy As part of its sustainability ambition in relation to circularity and carbon neutrality, Continental has set a public sustainability target for the Tires group sector with regard to recycled and renewable material inflows. Continental has set for itself the target of increas- ing the share of recycled and renewable production materials for tires to at least 40 % by 2030. The target is related to Continental’s management approaches Cir- cularity as noted in this section, and Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section of this sustainability report. The processes of the management ap- proach to circularity in terms of resource inflows are decisive for achieving the defined target. These are focused on resource inflow and enable this target to be achieved, as increased share of recy- cled and renewable materials is expected to lead to a lower carbon footprint for materials while at the same time enabling closed-loop resource cycles. Continental has identified key levers regarding resource inflows to increase the share of recycled and renewable tire production mate- rials. These comprise measures on the selection of recycled and re- newable materials, which are usually managed by R&D, as well as the identification of new suppliers and the further development of existing suppliers to secure relevant quantities of recycled and re- newable materials in the purchasing processes. These are set out in specific material roadmaps and are regularly updated. Correspond- ing certifications of origin or other instruments for origin and trace- ability contribute towards achieving the target by making it possi- ble to create transparency in the supply chains. Transitioning away from non-renewable resources will be achieved by replacing non-renewable materials with alternatives from renew- able sources. In addition, the replacement of primary materials with materials from secondary sources, e.g. from recycling processes, contribute towards achieving the target. For selecting renewable and recycled materials, the technical ability to integrate these with- out compromising safety and performance into our tires is prereq- uisite. This is ensured in the general process of material approval by R&D through detailed assessments and tests that take into ac- count the material characteristics, their interdependencies in the overall material composition and the tires as the end product. In general, some materials can be replaced by technically identical al- ternatives without changing the material composition or the end product, e.g. when a primary material is replaced by the same but recycled material. In addition, in some cases, replacing materials with alternative and technically slightly different yet renewable or recycled materials can lead to smaller differences in the end prod- uct. In doing so, Continental always ensures the same level of prod- uct safety and performance as well as takes further relevant bound- ary conditions into account. Based on the materials identified and approved as recycled or re- newable resource inflow, a joint strategy development process takes place between purchasing, R&D and sustainability. For materi- als identified with a potential to contribute to the target in a signifi- cant manner, dedicated material roadmaps are developed and maintained by the purchasing departments. These roadmaps as- sess the general availability of the respective materials for the re- quired quantities and allow conclusive analysis on their availability"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 162 on the market at economically compatible costs. Securing suffi- cient quantities of these materials is ensured through a balanced purchasing strategy that includes long-term contractual agree- ments as well as short-term purchasing activities for flexibility in dy- namic markets. The transparency and provision of evidence of the use of renewa- ble and recycled materials is a key lever to achieving the set target. As for many of our highly complex chemical value chains, material flows can hardly be traced physically on one-on-one level. There- fore, Continental also applies the mass balance approach (MBA) to purchases of materials, e.g. within the scope of ISCC PLUS. The pur- chasing departments as well as the sustainability department of the Tires group sector are primarily managing related activities. The scope of this sustainability target relates to all materials for tire production in the Tires group sector’s own operations. The retread- ing of tires as well as non-production materials are not taken into account in achieving this target. This intensity target is measured on the basis of the metric for the weight share of renewable and recycled materials for tires produc- tion as a percentage. The base year is 2024 and therefore the baseline value corresponds with the current result of the metric. No interim targets have been set. The overall commonly recognized concept of circularity includes in particular recycling and the use of renewable resources following with scientific studies. Continental’s target setting follows this gen- eral approach but does not consider a specific methodology for sci- ence-based target setting. In order to ensure the accuracy of material inflows accounted as re- cycled or renewable, mass balance approaches prevailed as feasi- ble option in the past years in complex value chains. It allows regu- lated, transparent and certified accounting of respective materials. Continental follows those commonly recognized certification schemes with the mass balance approach. The methodology for calculating the metric is described in the cor- responding explanations for the metric. The target was defined based on internal qualitative analysis and calculations with regards to the increase of the share of recycled and renewable materials. In general, materials are classified as renewable due to their general origin, and as recycled if they are of secondary origin. Renewable materials include bio-based resources that can return to their previ- ous stock levels through natural growth or renewal processes at a rate in line with use cycles. The target level of at least 40 % was de- fined based on internal feasibility studies as well as market extrapo- lations. The target takes into account the interests of different stakeholders such as customers using direct and indirect consultations. In the reporting period, the target was reported for the very first time. Continental’s target focuses on the resource inflows, especially with regard to the increase in the share of renewable and secondary materials as well as the reduction in the use of primary materials. We follow the cascading principle to use raw materials or products made of them for as long, as often and as efficiently as possible. The target in particular supports the recycling level of the waste hi- erarchy. The target has been set voluntarily to support the transition to- wards closed resource and product cycles."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 163 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has introduced concrete key actions to achieve the tar- get of at least 40 % recycled and renewable materials share in tire production by 2030. These actions mainly relate to the key levers of material identification, strategies for securing sufficient supplies and traceability, e.g. via the mass balance approach. Overall, actions related to the target are also strongly connected with the overall management approach of circularity. In order to be able to react flexibly to the changing market situation and changing needs, the actions are further developed step by step. The identification of renewable and recycled materials is one deci- sive factor to reach the target. Thus, the research and development department is continuously monitoring alternative materials to re- place non-renewable sources with renewable sources and primary sources with secondary sources. Innovative approaches are pur- sued as the usage of plant-based materials instead of fossil-based fillers, oils and resins. The activities aimed at increasing the share of recycled or renewable materials are inherently embedded into the operational processes of R&D. Thus, there is one overall process for material identification including material approval that is identical for recycled and renewable materials as well as non-recycled and non-renewable materials. As the availability of certain materials is crucial, there is a defined set of renewable and recycled materials suitable to enable reaching the target. These materials are identified by internal experts from R&D, sustainability and purchasing. This serves as a foundation to develop corresponding material roadmaps and purchasing strate- gies which are continuously monitored and updated. Materials that contribute towards increasing the share of recycled and renewable production materials in the initial steps are, in particular, recovered carbon black and recycled polyester. On the basis of the identified materials that contribute towards achieving the target of a minimum of 40 % recycled and renewable materials for tire production, purchasing strategies including mate- rial roadmaps are created with the involvement of experts from purchasing, R&D and sustainability. The creation and review of these roadmaps defines the overall framework of measures for the long-term procurement of the respective materials with implemen- tation scenarios. In addition, concrete short-term actions are devel- oped on this basis as flexible elements such as material-specific procurement activities in order to react to changing market situa- tions. These plans are coordinated and agreed with the board of the Tires group sector, and regularly reviewed and adapted as needed. While the integration of selected materials requires only limited adaptation in production processes, their availability in terms of large volumes at economically compatible cost is a deci- sive factor. In any case, Continental guarantees the same uniform level of safety and performance of all our tires. Whenever possible, Continental strives to secure volumes of relevant materials in the long term. For the Tires group sector, natural rubber is a key raw material that also contributes towards the share of renewable and recycled pro- duction materials. Therefore, with our partnerships along the value chain and the corresponding purchasing strategies, Continental will continue to source natural rubber and secure sufficient quantities for the coming years. As concrete examples of actions that contrib- ute towards achieving the target, Continental invests in processes for obtaining high-quality recycled materials for example through the strategic partnership with Pyrum to implement a circular ap- proach to recycling of old tires. Using a special pyrolysis process, carbon black, oil and gas are recovered as secondary resources and used for the production of new tires, among other purposes. Similarly, with its ContiRe.Tex solution, Continental has invented to- gether with the partner Otiz a process for high-performance yarn that allows conventional polyester to be replaced with polyester made from recycled PET-bottles. First products with recycled PET bottles are already introduced and a global rollout of this material in all Continental tire plants is foreseen within the year 2025. The creation of transparency and reliable information on recycled and renewable materials through the various steps in our complex value chains is a key action for Continental. Over the last few years, mass balance approaches prevailed as standard especially in chem- ical industry, allowing the regulated and transparent accounting of the quantities and the respective characteristics of recycled and re- newable materials. We see mass balance approaches as a neces- sary tool for the transition away from fossil resources in our mate- rial value chains. It reduces complexity, speeds up the adoption of materials and ensures continuous supply. If materials certified as re- cycled or renewable are combined with other non-certified materi- als in production processes, accounting following the mass balance approach ensures accurate recording and allocation of the respec- tive certified shares according to the actual material inflows. In this way, the quantities accounted as recycled and renewable are corre- spondingly certified and made transparent and traceable along the entire value chain. We therefore require suppliers to actively partici- pate in these frameworks where relevant, for example ISCC PLUS. The actions with regards to increasing the recycled and renewable share in tire production materials are embedded into operational activities especially in the areas of research and development and purchasing. The actions include short- and medium-term measures. The progress of the related actions (in the reporting year) is espe- cially measured by the progress of the target KPI"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 164 Capital expenditures and operating expenditures for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy OpEx for key actions 2024 OpEx for key actions to achieve targets related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 1,009 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Material costs for renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - The data collection is done on the level of materials. The calculation is based on an average data method. Primary data from inventory levels and purchasing data are used. Planned OpEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned OpEx for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 4,734 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Includes operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Material costs for renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - The data collection is done on the level of materials. The calculation is based on an average data method. Primary data from inventory levels and purchasing data are used. CapEx for key actions 2024 CapEx for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the capital expenditures (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Project costs and intangible assets for the technology conversion for production using renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - Data is collected at project level. Planned CapEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned CapEx for key actions to achieve the target relating to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term plan. - Includes the capital expenditures (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Project costs and intangible assets for the technology conversion for production using renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - Data is collected at project level."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 165 Metrics Relating to Resource Use and Circular Economy Resource inflows Total weight of products and materials used 2024 Total weight of products (including packaging) and materials used, in million t 3.7 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes technical and biological materials. Services, property, plant, equipment, and trading goods are excluded. - If no weight information is available, these are calculated using the costs of the materials and goods, such as packaging materials, with conversion factors. Calculated inventory stock level at 01.01. is considered. Percentage of sustainable biological materials 2024 Percentage of sustainably sourced biological materials (and biofuels used for non-energy purposes), in % 8.2 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Biological materials are considered renewable materials according to generally recognized standards. - Sustainably sourced refers to resource inflows that have been verified by external standards and certifications or other comparable schemes. In particular, this includes our procurement of natural rubber via defined processes based on specific sustainability criteria such as the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR) and our Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Weight of secondary components, intermediate products and materials used for products and services 2024 Total weight of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials used to manufacture products and services (including packaging), in million t 0.2 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total weight of materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - Packaging from the upstream supply chain is not included. - The proportion of secondary materials is based both on information from suppliers and, in some cases, expert assessments for certain materials. Due to missing or inconsistent data on packaging in some cases, internal expert assessments of the weight of specific packaging types were used to extrapolate the total weight using a factor and corresponding expenditure. Percentage of secondary components, intermediate products and materials used for products and services 2024 Percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials used to manufacture products and services (including packaging), in % 5.3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is made up of the previously defined metrics. Weight of renewable and recycled material inflow 2024 Total weight of renewable and recycled material inflow, in million t 0.6 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Non-production-related materials, including packaging, are excluded. The total weight of raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - The metric is entity-specific. Inflow of renewable and recycled materials 2024 Percentage of renewable and recycled material inflow, in % 18.4 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total weight of recycled and renewable raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - Non-production-related materials, including packaging, are excluded. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 161 The management approach for waste in own operations covers the entire Continental Group. Continental’s environmental strategy is steered and approved by the Executive Board. The associated programs are coordinated in internal committees of the environmental protection departments. The waste management is embedded in Continental's environmen- tal management systems. Waste-related processes are monitored and continuously improved as part of the general reviews of environmental management. Continental’s environmental management system was developed in accordance with ISO 14001, an internationally recognized standard for environmental management systems from the International Or- ganization for Standardization (ISO). The management approach reflects the interests of various stake- holders by using the widely accepted waste hierarchy and the adher- ence to ISO 14001. The direct interaction with stakeholders in rela- tion to waste takes place in particular with the responsible authorities. Continental communicates its management approach to waste management through various channels to ensure comprehensive understanding and engagement across the entire company. This includes information on the intranet, which makes the approach and specific internal rules accessible to all employees. Targets Related to Resource Use and Circular Economy As part of its sustainability ambition in relation to circularity and carbon neutrality, Continental has set a public sustainability target for the Tires group sector with regard to recycled and renewable material inflows. Continental has set for itself the target of increas- ing the share of recycled and renewable production materials for tires to at least 40 % by 2030. The target is related to Continental’s management approaches Cir- cularity as noted in this section, and Scope 3 emissions, portfolio resilience and transition in the Climate change (ESRS E1) section of this sustainability report. The processes of the management ap- proach to circularity in terms of resource inflows are decisive for achieving the defined target. These are focused on resource inflow and enable this target to be achieved, as increased share of recy- cled and renewable materials is expected to lead to a lower carbon footprint for materials while at the same time enabling closed-loop resource cycles. Continental has identified key levers regarding resource inflows to increase the share of recycled and renewable tire production mate- rials. These comprise measures on the selection of recycled and re- newable materials, which are usually managed by R&D, as well as the identification of new suppliers and the further development of existing suppliers to secure relevant quantities of recycled and re- newable materials in the purchasing processes. These are set out in specific material roadmaps and are regularly updated. Correspond- ing certifications of origin or other instruments for origin and trace- ability contribute towards achieving the target by making it possi- ble to create transparency in the supply chains. Transitioning away from non-renewable resources will be achieved by replacing non-renewable materials with alternatives from renew- able sources. In addition, the replacement of primary materials with materials from secondary sources, e.g. from recycling processes, contribute towards achieving the target. For selecting renewable and recycled materials, the technical ability to integrate these with- out compromising safety and performance into our tires is prereq- uisite. This is ensured in the general process of material approval by R&D through detailed assessments and tests that take into ac- count the material characteristics, their interdependencies in the overall material composition and the tires as the end product. In general, some materials can be replaced by technically identical al- ternatives without changing the material composition or the end product, e.g. when a primary material is replaced by the same but recycled material. In addition, in some cases, replacing materials with alternative and technically slightly different yet renewable or recycled materials can lead to smaller differences in the end prod- uct. In doing so, Continental always ensures the same level of prod- uct safety and performance as well as takes further relevant bound- ary conditions into account. Based on the materials identified and approved as recycled or re- newable resource inflow, a joint strategy development process takes place between purchasing, R&D and sustainability. For materi- als identified with a potential to contribute to the target in a signifi- cant manner, dedicated material roadmaps are developed and maintained by the purchasing departments. These roadmaps as- sess the general availability of the respective materials for the re- quired quantities and allow conclusive analysis on their availability"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 162 on the market at economically compatible costs. Securing suffi- cient quantities of these materials is ensured through a balanced purchasing strategy that includes long-term contractual agree- ments as well as short-term purchasing activities for flexibility in dy- namic markets. The transparency and provision of evidence of the use of renewa- ble and recycled materials is a key lever to achieving the set target. As for many of our highly complex chemical value chains, material flows can hardly be traced physically on one-on-one level. There- fore, Continental also applies the mass balance approach (MBA) to purchases of materials, e.g. within the scope of ISCC PLUS. The pur- chasing departments as well as the sustainability department of the Tires group sector are primarily managing related activities. The scope of this sustainability target relates to all materials for tire production in the Tires group sector’s own operations. The retread- ing of tires as well as non-production materials are not taken into account in achieving this target. This intensity target is measured on the basis of the metric for the weight share of renewable and recycled materials for tires produc- tion as a percentage. The base year is 2024 and therefore the baseline value corresponds with the current result of the metric. No interim targets have been set. The overall commonly recognized concept of circularity includes in particular recycling and the use of renewable resources following with scientific studies. Continental’s target setting follows this gen- eral approach but does not consider a specific methodology for sci- ence-based target setting. In order to ensure the accuracy of material inflows accounted as re- cycled or renewable, mass balance approaches prevailed as feasi- ble option in the past years in complex value chains. It allows regu- lated, transparent and certified accounting of respective materials. Continental follows those commonly recognized certification schemes with the mass balance approach. The methodology for calculating the metric is described in the cor- responding explanations for the metric. The target was defined based on internal qualitative analysis and calculations with regards to the increase of the share of recycled and renewable materials. In general, materials are classified as renewable due to their general origin, and as recycled if they are of secondary origin. Renewable materials include bio-based resources that can return to their previ- ous stock levels through natural growth or renewal processes at a rate in line with use cycles. The target level of at least 40 % was de- fined based on internal feasibility studies as well as market extrapo- lations. The target takes into account the interests of different stakeholders such as customers using direct and indirect consultations. In the reporting period, the target was reported for the very first time. Continental’s target focuses on the resource inflows, especially with regard to the increase in the share of renewable and secondary materials as well as the reduction in the use of primary materials. We follow the cascading principle to use raw materials or products made of them for as long, as often and as efficiently as possible. The target in particular supports the recycling level of the waste hi- erarchy. The target has been set voluntarily to support the transition to- wards closed resource and product cycles."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 163 Key Actions for Target Achievement Continental has introduced concrete key actions to achieve the tar- get of at least 40 % recycled and renewable materials share in tire production by 2030. These actions mainly relate to the key levers of material identification, strategies for securing sufficient supplies and traceability, e.g. via the mass balance approach. Overall, actions related to the target are also strongly connected with the overall management approach of circularity. In order to be able to react flexibly to the changing market situation and changing needs, the actions are further developed step by step. The identification of renewable and recycled materials is one deci- sive factor to reach the target. Thus, the research and development department is continuously monitoring alternative materials to re- place non-renewable sources with renewable sources and primary sources with secondary sources. Innovative approaches are pur- sued as the usage of plant-based materials instead of fossil-based fillers, oils and resins. The activities aimed at increasing the share of recycled or renewable materials are inherently embedded into the operational processes of R&D. Thus, there is one overall process for material identification including material approval that is identical for recycled and renewable materials as well as non-recycled and non-renewable materials. As the availability of certain materials is crucial, there is a defined set of renewable and recycled materials suitable to enable reaching the target. These materials are identified by internal experts from R&D, sustainability and purchasing. This serves as a foundation to develop corresponding material roadmaps and purchasing strate- gies which are continuously monitored and updated. Materials that contribute towards increasing the share of recycled and renewable production materials in the initial steps are, in particular, recovered carbon black and recycled polyester. On the basis of the identified materials that contribute towards achieving the target of a minimum of 40 % recycled and renewable materials for tire production, purchasing strategies including mate- rial roadmaps are created with the involvement of experts from purchasing, R&D and sustainability. The creation and review of these roadmaps defines the overall framework of measures for the long-term procurement of the respective materials with implemen- tation scenarios. In addition, concrete short-term actions are devel- oped on this basis as flexible elements such as material-specific procurement activities in order to react to changing market situa- tions. These plans are coordinated and agreed with the board of the Tires group sector, and regularly reviewed and adapted as needed. While the integration of selected materials requires only limited adaptation in production processes, their availability in terms of large volumes at economically compatible cost is a deci- sive factor. In any case, Continental guarantees the same uniform level of safety and performance of all our tires. Whenever possible, Continental strives to secure volumes of relevant materials in the long term. For the Tires group sector, natural rubber is a key raw material that also contributes towards the share of renewable and recycled pro- duction materials. Therefore, with our partnerships along the value chain and the corresponding purchasing strategies, Continental will continue to source natural rubber and secure sufficient quantities for the coming years. As concrete examples of actions that contrib- ute towards achieving the target, Continental invests in processes for obtaining high-quality recycled materials for example through the strategic partnership with Pyrum to implement a circular ap- proach to recycling of old tires. Using a special pyrolysis process, carbon black, oil and gas are recovered as secondary resources and used for the production of new tires, among other purposes. Similarly, with its ContiRe.Tex solution, Continental has invented to- gether with the partner Otiz a process for high-performance yarn that allows conventional polyester to be replaced with polyester made from recycled PET-bottles. First products with recycled PET bottles are already introduced and a global rollout of this material in all Continental tire plants is foreseen within the year 2025. The creation of transparency and reliable information on recycled and renewable materials through the various steps in our complex value chains is a key action for Continental. Over the last few years, mass balance approaches prevailed as standard especially in chem- ical industry, allowing the regulated and transparent accounting of the quantities and the respective characteristics of recycled and re- newable materials. We see mass balance approaches as a neces- sary tool for the transition away from fossil resources in our mate- rial value chains. It reduces complexity, speeds up the adoption of materials and ensures continuous supply. If materials certified as re- cycled or renewable are combined with other non-certified materi- als in production processes, accounting following the mass balance approach ensures accurate recording and allocation of the respec- tive certified shares according to the actual material inflows. In this way, the quantities accounted as recycled and renewable are corre- spondingly certified and made transparent and traceable along the entire value chain. We therefore require suppliers to actively partici- pate in these frameworks where relevant, for example ISCC PLUS. The actions with regards to increasing the recycled and renewable share in tire production materials are embedded into operational activities especially in the areas of research and development and purchasing. The actions include short- and medium-term measures. The progress of the related actions (in the reporting year) is espe- cially measured by the progress of the target KPI"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 164 Capital expenditures and operating expenditures for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy OpEx for key actions 2024 OpEx for key actions to achieve targets related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 1,009 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Material costs for renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - The data collection is done on the level of materials. The calculation is based on an average data method. Primary data from inventory levels and purchasing data are used. Planned OpEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned OpEx for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 4,734 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term planning. - Includes operating expenditure (OpEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Material costs for renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - The data collection is done on the level of materials. The calculation is based on an average data method. Primary data from inventory levels and purchasing data are used. CapEx for key actions 2024 CapEx for key actions to achieve the target related to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes the capital expenditures (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Project costs and intangible assets for the technology conversion for production using renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - Data is collected at project level. Planned CapEx for key actions Next 5 years Planned CapEx for key actions to achieve the target relating to resource use and circular economy, in € millions 0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The time horizon applied is in line with the approved long-term plan. - Includes the capital expenditures (CapEx) for key actions to implement the targets relating to resource use and circular economy. Project costs and intangible assets for the technology conversion for production using renewable and recycled materials in the Tires group sector are considered. - Data is collected at project level."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 165 Metrics Relating to Resource Use and Circular Economy Resource inflows Total weight of products and materials used 2024 Total weight of products (including packaging) and materials used, in million t 3.7 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Includes technical and biological materials. Services, property, plant, equipment, and trading goods are excluded. - If no weight information is available, these are calculated using the costs of the materials and goods, such as packaging materials, with conversion factors. Calculated inventory stock level at 01.01. is considered. Percentage of sustainable biological materials 2024 Percentage of sustainably sourced biological materials (and biofuels used for non-energy purposes), in % 8.2 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Biological materials are considered renewable materials according to generally recognized standards. - Sustainably sourced refers to resource inflows that have been verified by external standards and certifications or other comparable schemes. In particular, this includes our procurement of natural rubber via defined processes based on specific sustainability criteria such as the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR) and our Sustainable Natural Rubber Sourcing Policy. Weight of secondary components, intermediate products and materials used for products and services 2024 Total weight of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials used to manufacture products and services (including packaging), in million t 0.2 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total weight of materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - Packaging from the upstream supply chain is not included. - The proportion of secondary materials is based both on information from suppliers and, in some cases, expert assessments for certain materials. Due to missing or inconsistent data on packaging in some cases, internal expert assessments of the weight of specific packaging types were used to extrapolate the total weight using a factor and corresponding expenditure. Percentage of secondary components, intermediate products and materials used for products and services 2024 Percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials used to manufacture products and services (including packaging), in % 5.3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric is made up of the previously defined metrics. Weight of renewable and recycled material inflow 2024 Total weight of renewable and recycled material inflow, in million t 0.6 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Non-production-related materials, including packaging, are excluded. The total weight of raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - The metric is entity-specific. Inflow of renewable and recycled materials 2024 Percentage of renewable and recycled material inflow, in % 18.4 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total weight of recycled and renewable raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - Non-production-related materials, including packaging, are excluded. - The metric is entity-specific."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 166 Weight of renewable and recycled material inflows (Tires) 2024 Total weight of the renewable and recycled materials inflow (raw materials of the Tires group sector only), in million t 0.5 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - This metric only encompasses the Tires group sector and relates to Continental’s public sustainability target for circularity. - The total weight of recycled and renewable raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the purchased quantities of materials of the Tires group sector. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - The metric is entity-specific. Inflow of renewable and recycled materials (Tires) 2024 Percentage of inflow of renewable and recycled materials (only raw materials of the Tires group sector), in % 26.0 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The total weight of recycled and renewable raw materials used to manufacture products corresponds to the quantities of materials purchased. This value is corrected by a calculated factor for the change in inventory levels. - The absolute weight of renewable and recycled raw material inflows in the Tires group sector is divided by the total weight of the products and materials used in the Tires group sector. - The metric is entity-specific. These resource inflows are described in greater detail in the man- agement approach Circularity presented in this section and in the Description of the business model and value chain subsection of the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Resource outflows Continental’s main resource outflows including waste in regard to their material impacts, risks and opportunities are described in this section and in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. Products and materials Continental’s product portfolio covers a broad spectrum, particu- larly in the areas of industry and vehicles. A detailed description can be found in the General disclosures (ESRS 2) section. The im- plementation of our sustainability ambition to achieve 100 % closed resource and product cycles by 2050 at the latest is de- scribed in particular in the management approach Circularity in this section. Rates of recyclable content in product packaging 2024 Rates of recyclable content in product packaging, in % 100 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - The quantity of packaging purchased corresponds to the quantity of packaging used. - The data is reported centrally. Rates of recyclable content in products 2024 Rates of recyclable content in products, in % 61.3 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: - Data is based on purchasing data and calculated on a group sector-specific basis. - This metric defines the proportion of the weight of the contents of products that can potentially be recycled. This value may differ significantly from the actual recycling of this content. - If no weight data is available, it is calculated based on the cost of materials and goods, such as packaging materials, using conversion factors. The calculated inventory as of January 1st is considered. Continental has a diverse product portfolio serving the automotive and other industries. Due to the differences in the individual prod- ucts, target markets, use cases and user behavior, it is almost im- possible to predict the expected durability across the board. The actual durability of a specific product may deviate from the follow- ing estimates in individual cases. For all tires, service conditions vary widely depending on vehicle and use as well as other factors such as inflation pressure, load, speed, road conditions, frequency of rotation, and storage condi- tions. Nonetheless regarding the estimated durability of tires, it is essential to replace passenger car tires and commercial vehicle tires when the tread depth falls below 1.6 mm, as this is the mini- mum legal limit across the European Union. In industry-wide prod- uct tests by external associations, passenger car tires often achieve an overall mileage of 20,000 km to 70,000 km until the legal mini- mum tread depth of 1.6 mm is reached. There, Continental tires rank among the best. Furthermore, in the tire industry, it is gener- ally recommended to check and replace a tire after 10 years if needed. For the automotive industry, the key products of the Automotive group sector are electronic brake systems, electronic control units, telematics, access systems, as well as surround radars and display solutions. For the ContiTech group sector, the product portfolio"
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 167 comprises a wide selection of products ranging from components for vehicle interiors to steering systems and air spring systems spe- cifically for commercial vehicles. Generally, the service life of our products for the automotive industry must be equal to the entire service life of the vehicle and thus correspond to the operational service life of the vehicle in which they are installed. In accordance with the assumptions applied to Scope 3 emissions for the use of products sold, the average service life of a passenger car is esti- mated at 200,000 km and that of a commercial vehicle at 1,000,000 km. Although expected service life can vary widely de- pending on vehicle type and application conditions, our products for the automotive industry meet the durability expectations of au- tomotive manufacturers, which are generally a minimum service life of 150,000 km and/or 10 years. The industry business of the ContiTech group sector has a highly diverse portfolio with different applications and specifications in nu- merous branches such as drive belts, storage solution, hoses and niche products like printing blankets. The expected durability can vary significantly depending on sourrounding conditions and the final use-case of the product, that is not always known to Continental. These main factors influencing the product's longevity are setting a product lifespan ranging from a few years up to several decades. To date, there is no established external assessment system for the repairability of Continental’s products. Nevertheless, we are con- stantly working on expanding circular product design, as described in the management approach on circularity, and offer correspond- ing services and products, among others. In principle, our products can be repaired in the event of damage, but the actual possibility depends on many factors, including the actual condition of the product and the degree of damage. In particular, damage such as punctures in the tire can be sealed again using specific procedures so that the tire can continue to be used. In the case of products for the automotive industry, repairs can often be carried out in motor vehicle workshops. Continental operates its own international net- work of workshops in this area. Products from the ContiTech group sector can also be repaired under certain conditions in the event of damage. We also offer corresponding services such as the repair- ing of our conveyor belts and hose solutions. For safety-relevant components (e.g. tires), restrictions on repaira- bility may also apply for safety reasons. The corresponding man- agement approaches Technical and product compliance and Safe mobility can be found in the Consumers and end-users (ESRS S4) section."
"Continental AG 2024 Annual Report Management Report Sustainability Report – Environmental Information 168 Waste and recyclable content Waste diverted from disposal, in million t 2024 (1) Non-hazardous waste for reuse 0.000 (2) Non-hazardous waste for recycling 0.309 (3) Non-hazardous waste for other recovery operations 0.069 (4) Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal 0.378 (5) Hazardous waste for reuse 0.000 (6) Hazardous waste for recycling 0.017 (7) Hazardous waste for other recovery operations 0.009 (8) Hazardous waste diverted from disposal 0.025 (9) Total waste diverted from disposal 0.403 Definitions, assumptions, and calculation methods: Overarching information for positions (1) – (9): - The data is collected by the individual locations. For certain locations, modeled calculations are used considering the number of employees and the type of operation. Additionally, the December waste for individual locations has been calculated in case the necessary data or receipts were not available at the time of reporting. - Waste that contractually belongs to an external third party is not taken into account. - Hazardous waste is considered following the Annex III of Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the council of waste. - Non-Hazardous waste considers waste which is not covered by the definition of hazardous waste. (1) Non-hazardous waste for reuse - Reuse refers to any process where products and components that are not waste are used again for the same purpose for which they were designed, without significant modification. - Material for reuse does not end up in the waste register. Instead, it is immediately transferred to the corresponding material storage facility. - Consequently, no waste is generated that is intended for reuse. (2) Non-hazardous waste for recycling - Recycling is defined as any recovery process in which waste materials are reprocessed into products, materials, or substances, whether for the original or another purpose. (3) Non-hazardous waste for other recovery operations - Other recovery operations include the generation or recovery of energy through incineration of waste that is to be used as fuel or other means to generate energy. (4) Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal - Total of positions (1) to (3) (5) Hazardous waste for reuse - Reuse refers to any process where products and components that are not waste are used again for the same purpose for which they were designed, without significant modification. - Material for reuse does not end up in the waste register. Instead, it is immediately transferred to the corresponding material storage facility. Consequently, no waste with the intention of reuse is available. (6) Hazardous waste for recycling - Recycling includes all recovery processes in which waste materials are reprocessed into products, materials, or substances, whether for the original purpose or for another purpose. (7) Hazardous waste for other recovery operations - Other recovery operations cover the purpose to generate or recover energy by incineration of waste that is to be used as fuel or other means to generate energy. (8) Hazardous waste diverted from disposal - Total of positions (5) to (7) (9) Total waste diverted from disposal - Total of positions (4) and (8)"
