"1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 Likelihood Financial effect A B D C low to medium medium to high high to very high Key Baseline 2030 2050 Risk Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 43 Physical risks Risk Description Outlook Justification A Heat Stress The rise in temperature beyond a threshold level for a period of time. Material by 2050 Heat stress could lead to significant increases in expenditure associated with additional energy usage for increased cooling requirements, and additional expenditure if additional HVAC systems require installation. B Heat Waves An extended period of hot weather relative to the expected conditions of the area at that time of year, which may be accompanied by high humidity. Material by 2030 The high proportion of sites which could be impacted by heatwaves could lead to significant increases in expenditure associated with additional energy usage for increased cooling requirements, and additional expenditure if additional HVAC systems require installation. C Water Stress Water stress occurs when the demand for water exceeds the available amount during a certain period or when poor quality restricts its use. Material at baseline Stress on water availability could lead to increased expenditures if the cost of water increases. There may also be disruptions to operations if there are caps on water usage. D Storm Events of winds ranging from 75 to 88 km/h, with heavy storms reaching speeds from 89 to 102 km/h. This risk includes blizzards, dust and sandstorms. Material by 2050 There is a general projected increase in severe windstorms in the countries of Basic-Fit’s operations and the severity of the potential impacts related to storms. These impacts could include increase expenditure for general maintenance following storm events e.g., fixing roofs or clearing flood waters. There may be reduced revenue if clubs need to shut following damages from a serious storm event."
"1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 Likelihood Financial effect R1 R2 O1 Key Risk 2030 2040 2050 Opportunity low to medium medium to high high to very high Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 44 Transitional risks and opportunities Description Category Outlook Justification R1 Volatile energy prices Several factors could drive energy prices up in the short to medium term, including stricter carbon pricing regulations (such as the EU ETS and taxes) and investment slowdown in new fossil projects, leading to supply-demand impairment. Additionally, increased reliance on renewable sources like solar and wind can contribute to price volatility due to their variable nature and dependency on weather conditions. Transition Risk Material by 2030 As a value-for-money business focused on efficiency, volatile energy prices pose a significant risk directly affecting the company's cost structure and profitability. Although scenarios suggest a long-term decrease in electricity prices, fluctuations due to geopolitical factors, technology readiness, and weather variability could result in increased operational expenditure. R2 Internal global supply chain decarbonisation efforts Basic-Fit primarily relies on suppliers which manufacture in Asia for its fitness equipment. The construction and transportation of this equipment present environmental impacts. Although Basic-Fit does not operate in a high- emitting sector, substantial efforts and changes may be required if the company engages in decarbonizing its upstream indirect emissions. Material by 2030 The risk associated with Basic-Fit’s supply chain decarbonisation effort is expected to peak by 2030, potentially significantly impacting expenditure. Increased scrutiny from regulators and investors is pressuring companies to reduce value chain emissions, which may raise costs, particularly for greener transport services and club furnishing material. In the medium to long term, initial supplier investments in decarbonisation are expected to eventually reduce cost pressures. O1 Proactive management of energy consumption Basic-Fit can achieve operational savings through improved energy management and efficiency measures. By transitioning to renewable energy sources, upgrading its heating and cooling systems, and further electrifying its vehicle fleet, Basic- Fit can reduce energy costs and minimise its environmental impact. Transition Opportunity Material by 2030 Managing energy consumption presents significant cost-saving opportunities for Basic-Fit. As energy is a major expense, cost-efficient reductions directly increase the company’s profitability. Since launching its heating and cooling system retrofitting program, Basic-Fit has seen a return on investment through improved energy efficiency and reduced expenditure with each upgrade"
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 45 Energy powering our operations Controlling our use of energy and ensuring that it comes from renewable sources is key to the reduction of our direct emissions. It also helps us also to improve the cost efficiency of our club operations. As such, Basic-Fit sees energy use as a strategically important topic. In broad terms, energy consumed in Basic-Fit operations consists primarily of purchased electricity and gas for running clubs and offices, self-generated renewable energy from solar panels and fuel for company vehicles. Sources of energy consumed Country Energy from fossil sources (MWh) Energy from nuclear sources (MWh) Energy from renewable sources Total (MWh) Purchased (MWh) Self- generated (MWh) Belgium 12,892 114 33,747 106 46,859 Germany 3,316 106 77 - 3,499 Spain 17,011 10,098 966 - 28,075 France 16,105 103,385 5,560 - 125,050 Luxembourg - - 1,929 - 1,929 Netherlands 15,310 2 37,202 1,478 53,991 Total 64,634 113,706 79,480 1,584 259,404 Basic-Fit has taken some actions in 2024 to address our negative impacts on the environment. This includes the installation of solar panels, heat pumps, efficient water boilers and HVAC control systems. These actions were taken with the expected outcome of reducing our energy consumption and related emissions. You can find more information on these actions in Note 2.3 of the Financial Statements. Renewable energy production Country Own use (MWh) Reselling to grid (MWh) Total (MWh) Belgium 106 5 112 Netherlands 1,478 357 1,835 Total 1,584 363 1,947 Methodology Notes The data regarding sources of energy used1 covers Basic-Fit’s club operation and energy use in offices. It is disaggregated by country. Company leased cars and self-generated renewable energy are also taken into account in these results. Actual electricity data was available for 73% of clubs and gas data for 68% of relevant clubs. In cases where actual energy consumption data for 2024 was unavailable, we calculated the median energy usage per club per square metre for each country, using actual data sourced directly from energy suppliers and smart meters. This information was then used to estimate energy consumption for clubs without data, based on their size (in square metres). Regarding the disaggregation of energy by sources, we applied the following: 1 The electricity purchased in France, Spain, and Germany was disaggregated based on information from national suppliers or energy authorities regarding country-level electricity generation sources. Basic-Fit intends to purchase GOs for total electricity consumption in 2024, with the purchase planned for 2025 once electricity consumption data has been settled, and the actual consumption is known. As a result, the energy mix indicated in this report may be updated accordingly. 2 In the Netherlands and Belgium, all electricity purchased was classified as renewable based on purchased guarantees of origin (GOs) certifying that electricity comes from renewable sources. 3 In Luxembourg, the energy contract certifies that all electricity comes from renewable sources. 1 This means the 'Sources of energy consumed' table presents totals for the following disclosures: E1-5 37a, 37b, 37cii and 37ciii. 37ci is not applicable to Basic-Fit."
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 46 4 Gas consumption is accounted as ‘energy from fossil sources’. 5 Fuel consumption by company leased cars is accounted for as ‘energy from fossil sources’ and is based on data from fleet reports. An assumption of 5.5 L/100km was applied for fuel consumption. Energy consumption from electric company- leased cars is considered under purchased electricity. Regarding the disclosure requirement applicable to high climate impact sectors (disaggregation of sources as per paragraph 38), we consider this does not apply to Basic-Fit, as we deem our operations to be classified under NACE 2 section R code 93.13 ‘Activities of fitness facilities’, whilst the ESRS defines high climate impact sectors as those listed in NACE Sections A to H and L. Regarding renewable energy production data from our solar panels (E1-5 39), we had access to actual solar generation data for all relevant clubs. In cases where a club produced more renewable energy than it could consume, the excess energy was returned to the grid. The amount of renewable energy sold is based on actual data from the energy supplier and is reported in the table ""renewable energy production"". The difference between the self-generated renewable energy produced and sold is reported in the table 'Sources of energy consumed', under self-generated renewable energy (E1-5 37ciii). Basic-Fit did not engage in the production of non-renewable energy (E1-5 39). GHG Emissions Last year, we undertook a full calculation of our emissions inventory, updating our calculations of Scope 1 and 2 emissions and for the first time measuring our Scope 3 emissions. In summary, the emissions comprise the following: Scope 1 emissions relate to gas consumption in clubs and offices, travel using vehicles leased by Basic-Fit, and refrigerant fluids used in heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and refrigeration machines. Scope 2 emissions are related to the indirect emissions based on the electricity purchased by Basic-Fit. This is equivalent to the electricity consumption as reported under E1-5. The Scope 2 emissions reported here include the gross location-based and market-based emissions. Scope 3 emissions are calculated after assessing the applicability of the corresponding 15 categories in the GHG protocol. Applicable categories are included in the GHG emissions table below. The following Scope 3 categories were excluded from the calculation: • Upstream and Downstream Leased Assets: Leased assets, including vehicles and buildings, were accounted for under other categories, as they are integral to Basic-Fit’s operations. • Processing of Sold Products: Basic-Fit does not engage in the sale of intermediate products. • Franchises: Basic-Fit did not operate franchises in 2024. 2 Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community (NACE 2.1) https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/documents/3859598/5902521/KS-RA-07-015-EN.PDF]"
paragraph 24 (b) Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Not material
