"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable ESRS sub-topic/sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term E1 – Climate change Climate change adaptation Extreme weather events in supply chain Cases of extreme weather events events, without existing mitigating actions, could have potential impacts on production and transportation, specifically in relation to shortages and delayed deliveries from Contract Manufacturing Organizations and supply of raw materials. Risk ● ● Climate change adaptation Extreme weather events at production sites Due to weather related effects of climate change, without existing mitigating actions, there could be an increased frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, such as storms and floods. These extreme weather events could disrupt manufacturing operations. Risk ● ● Climate change mitigation GHG emissions contributing to climate change We emit greenhouse gasses as part of activities related to research, development, manufacturing and distribution of vaccines, processes which are dependent on various energy sources and use of fossil fuels, both in our own operations (Scope 1 and 2) and throughout our value chain (Scope 3). Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● ● Climate change mitigation Systems controlling refrigerants A potential failure of systems controlling refrigerants which would result in a release of CO2 equivalents into the atmosphere. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Energy Reliance on energy sources stem- ming from use of fossil fuels Our manufacturing processes partly rely on energy sources dependent on fossil fuels, which emit green- house gases and contribute to climate change. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● E2 – Pollution Substances of concern Use of substances of concern A part of our processes in Research and Manufacturing makes use of substances classified as substances of concern which could be harmful to the environment and/or for people handling the substances. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● Substances of very high concern Use of substances of very high concern A part of our processes in Research and Manufacturing makes use of substances classified as substances of very high concern which could be harmful to the environment and/or for people handling the substances. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● Substances of very high concern Further restriction on the use of substances of very high concern We could face a risk in case of further regulatory restrictions on using SVHC's in our operations. Regulations banning the use of such substances could have a consequence on the manufacturing process and would require us to reformulate vaccines. Risk ● ● Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 54"
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable ESRS sub-topic/sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems Impacts on the state of species Reliance on horseshoe crabs for endotoxin testing Impact on horseshoe crabs (a species listed on the IUCN Red List) stems from our dependency on Limulus Amebocyte Lysate, (LAL). which is derived from horseshoe crab blood. The substance is used for endotoxin (safety) testing and is currently a part of our regulatory compliance with quality assurance processes for testing, and product release to ensuring safety of our vaccines. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● Impacts on the state of species Continued regulation on horseshoe crab reliance The use of substances derived from horseshoe crabs, could pose a financial risk if various regulatory bodies, in geographies where we are present, do not align or adopt similar medium- to long-term phase-out provisions on the use of current testing methods, which would not allow us to harmonize any eventual phase-out. Risk ● ● E5 – Resource use and circular economy Resource inflows, including resource use Change of certain manufacturing practices can reduce resource use We are exploring opportunities to optimize production process which could potentially decrease resource inflow and at the same time increase productivity, amounts of certain vaccines produced per batch, improve COGS, and other benefits. Further details are considered company sensitive as disclosed in General disclosures. Opportunity ● ● Waste Waste from operations We generate waste from our research and manufacturing facilities, and non-recyclable waste is sent to either incineration and/or landfill, both of which negatively impacts the natural environment. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● - continued Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 55"
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) - continued ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable sub/ sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term S1 – Own workforce Equal treatment and opportunities for all Equal treatment and opportunities Given our global presence and reliance on a highly skilled workforce, we may risk our ability to attract and retain talent if we do not keep momentum in current efforts and continuously develop initiatives to ensure that we maintain an inclusive and diverse workforce. Risk ● ● Health and safety own workers Health and safety of our workforce Some processes in our manufacturing facilities and research facilities could result in a negative impact on a person’s physical health. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● Health and safety own workers Health and safety of non-employees Some processes in our manufacturing facilities and research facilities could result in a negative impact on a person’s physical health. This also applies to non-employees carrying out activities and services on behalf of us. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Working conditions Work-life balance As an employer, we play a crucial role in shaping the work-life balance of its employees, ultimately impacting their overall well-being and job satisfaction. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Working conditions Attraction and retention of talent and employees We are dependent on the ability to attract and retain talents for many functions. In situations of intense competition for skilled individuals, or other events leading to adverse impact on our image, this could impact our ability to perform. Risk ● ● S2 – Workers in the value chain Working conditions Health & safety of off-premise workers in the value chain Suppliers and partners in our value chain manage and handle chemicals, which can potentially have a direct impact on the health and safety of workers in the value chain. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Working conditions Health & safety of on-premise workers in the value chain We make use of external companies and individuals who carry out various services at our production sites, some of whom may be exposed to processes that could result in a negative impact on a person's physical health. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 56"
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) - continued ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable sub/ sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term S4 – Consumers and end-users Personal safety of consumers and or end-users Potential adverse effects on patients enrolled in clinical trials During clinical trials, participants' health could be adversely affected from unexpected adverse reactions / events to a vaccine candidate in any stage of clinical trials. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Personal safety of consumers and or end-users Adverse effects due to vaccines administration Adverse events due to vaccine administration can happen and could negatively impact patient health. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Personal safety of consumers and or end-users Potential adverse effects on patients enrolled in clinical trials During clinical trials, adverse events linked to the drug substance represents significant risk as it could stop or pause the development of a vaccine candidate. Risk ● ● Personal safety of consumers and or end-users Adverse events as a result of vaccine administration Adverse events as a result of vaccine administration can occur, and if not handled properly, could result in lawsuits and/or regulatory enforcement. Risk ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Prevention of spread of infectious diseases People who have been vaccinated with a vaccine for which we hold the market authorization, can through increased coverage contribute to the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases. Actual positive impact ● ● ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Expanding access to vaccines in endemic countries We have an opportunity to distribute vaccines, in our current portfolio, to endemic low- and lower-mid- dle-income countries reaching markets currently not served. This could have a positive impact on under- served communities by reducing the spread of preventable infectious diseases. Potential positive impact ● ● ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Vaccines can prevent the spread of infectious diseases due to climate change We have an opportunity to provide vaccines which can prevent the spread of infectious diseases which can be correlated to the effects of climate change. Therefore, through our Public Preparedness and Travel Health portfolio, we can have a positive impact on human adaptation to certain effects of climate change. Actual positive impact ● ● ● ● Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 57"
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) - continued ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable sub/ sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term Social inclusion of consumers and end users Potential to breach responsible marketing standards For companies in the pharmaceutical industry, there are strict rules and regulations in place regarding the marketing to customers. These regulations vary across countries; however, violating these regulations or industry codes could lead to misinformation of health care workers, legal & financial penalties, fines, and damage to a company's reputation. Risk ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Potential to further expanding vaccine portfolio We have an opportunity to develop or acquire new vaccines to our portfolio which could serve new disease areas and prevent the spread of infectious diseases. Opportunity ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Access barriers Distributing vaccines to a global market, we may face situations where access barriers can prevent or slow our ability to deliver vaccines to persons in need. Such barriers may be linked to local regulatory processes, lack of cold-chain transportation, affordability, etc., and could impact our ability to do business, and deliver vaccines, to certain markets. Risk ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Opportunity to prevent the spread of infectious diseases related to climate change With our current portfolio of vaccines, we have a growing opportunity to distribute vaccines that can prevent the spread of certain infectious diseases, whose increasing prevalence can be attributed to the impact of climate change on natural habitats. Opportunity ● ● ● Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 58"
"Engaging with our workforce We strive to maintain a collaborative and trans- parent approach to workforce engagement and incorporate the perspectives of own workforce into decision-making and operational activities by conducting anonymous employee engagement surveys and continuous dialogue with workers coun- cils in Denmark and Germany. Our approach includes assessing how and when engagement efforts occur, the roles and respon- sibilities involved, and the mechanisms in place to ensure effective outcomes. The Chief People & Sustainability Officer is the most senior person accountable for the employee engagement survey. The Executive Team is collectively responsible for driving engagement across Bavarian Nordic. Employee engagement survey Conducting employee engagement surveys facili- tates transparent communication and collaboration, cultivating a supportive and engaging work envi- ronment and addressing factors impacting work-life balance, job satisfaction, and overall employee well-being. As part of our annual people processes we conduct regular engagement surveys to ensure employee feedback is transparently integrated into decision-making and local team dialogues. The engagement surveys involve different stages: survey planning, information gathering, and review phases of responses generated. Through the engagement survey, employees provide feedback on matters essential to workplace culture including health & well-being, diversity and inclusion, and transformation and change. All employees - across sites, functions, and organizational levels - are eligible to participate. Employees are informed about the surveys and encouraged to participate through email reminders, intranet announcements, Teams notifications, and other internal communica- tion channels. Feedback is collected anonymously, where aggregated results are shared in each team, and presented into actionable insights for managers and leaders, providing a holistic view of organiza- tional health while identifying areas for targeted improvement at local level. The employee engagement survey aims to foster immediate engagement while establishing a long-term foundation for enhanced health, well- being, and job satisfaction. In 2024, three surveys were conducted, enabling consistent monitoring of employee perspectives and adaptability to emerging organizational needs. Surveys are tailored to address evolving priorities, supporting continuous alignment with organizational goals. Workers councils The workers councils (""Betriebsrat"" in Germany and ""Arbejdsmiljøorganisation"" in Denmark) func- tion as a formal channels to incorporate employee perspectives into organizational decision-making. It addresses the principles governing local working conditions, welfare arrangements, and the overar- ching personnel policies in Denmark and Germany. Serving as a platform for dialogue, the council enables management to communicate key informa- tion while ensuring that employee representatives are consulted on significant matters. This engage- ment promotes transparency, cooperation, and alignment, contributing to the continuous enhance- ment of our workplace environment and organiza- tional unity. Processes for remediation We encourage all employees to raise concerns with their manager and/or our HR department, and we strive to address and resolve any issues that are raised in the line of business. Additionally, employees have access to formal reporting channels including our Ethics Hotline, which allows for confidential and anonymous reporting of misconduct or ethical concerns. Read more about our Ethics Hotline in the Business Conduct section of these sustainability statements. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 82 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"Number of employees by gender S1 – table 1 in headcounts 2024 Male 766 Female 887 Total employees 1,653 Number of employees by country S1 – table 2 in headcounts 2024 Denmark 979 Germany 301 Switzerland 215 United States of America 123 Other* 35 Total employees 1,653 * Countries with less than 50 employees are reported aggregated as other. Number of employees by employment characteristics S1 – table 3 in headcounts 2024 Female Male Total Number of permanent employees 856 749 1,605 Number of temporary employees 31 17 48 Number of non-guaranteed hours employees 0 0 0 Total employees 887 766 1,653 Accounting policies Number of employees breakdown by gender and country Employees refer to individuals working part-time or full-time under a contractual agreement with Bavarian Nordic. This definition encompasses employees under local terms and conditions of employment, such as enti- tlements, payment of social security contributions, and other applicable obligations. The number of employees (head counts) by gender and country are recognized based on records from the HR system at the end of the reporting period. Number of employees by employment classification The number of employees is disaggregated by employ- ment classification, including permanent, temporary, and non-guaranteed hours employees, and is reported in number of headcounts. Permanent employees refers to employees employed on an indefinite contract, either full-time or part-time, subject to local terms and conditions of employment. Temporary employees refer to employees hired for a specific duration, either full- time or part-time, to fulfill short-term needs such as apprenticeships, backfilling, or covering parental leave. Temporary contracts end at a predefined date or upon project completion. Turnover rate The employee turnover rate, expressed as a percentage, reflects the proportion of employees who left the organization within a calendar year either voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement or death in service. The turnover rate is determined by dividing the number of employees (measured by headcount) who left during the reporting period by the average number of employees (headcount) for the same period and multiplying it by one hundred. Rate and number of employees leaving the company S1 – table 4  in headcounts 2024 Rate of employee turnover 17.4% Number of employees who left the company 255 Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 83 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"Material impacts and risks IRO IRO Attraction and retention of talent and work-life balance Our ability to attract and retain a workforce with the necessary skills and experience is fundamental to our success and relates to other identified impacts, including work-life balance. In a competitive labour market, as well as under potential reputational pressures, difficulties in attracting or retaining employees could negatively impact our performance and strategic objectives. The identified risk arises from the dependencies on our own workforce, particularly those working in locations and function where there is a high demand within pharmaceu- tical research, development, manufacturing and commercial. The risk has been identified through our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process. The vaccine sector can be subject to fluctuating market demands, due to external factors such as urgent responses to disease outbreaks. As an employer, we are responsible for shaping working conditions and work-life balance for our employees, impacting their overall well-being and job satisfac- tion, which ultimately affects our ability to retain talent. Peak periods can affect people working in various departments and sites throughout the organization, as they could lead to additional work- load. Policies & processes Remote working policy Our remote working policy defines the governing framework for employees performing working hours outside the organization's premises. The policy applies universally to all employees and is intended to enhance operational efficiency, employee engagement and organizational alignment through structured and flexible working arrangement. The policy reflects our commitment to flexible workplace practices, prioritizing well-being and adaptability to modern work requirements. The New Ways of Working initiative With the aim to increase flexibility and enhance work-life balance, we introduced our New Ways of Working initiative in 2021. Through this, we actively encourage employees to work collaboratively and adopt flexible working arrangements. By fostering a culture of flexibility, and improved work spaces at our offices, we provide a framework for work practices, which support employees in achieving improved work-life balance, also in peak periods. Actions In 2024, we initiated a series of initiatives aimed at strengthening our ability to attract and retain talent, with efforts focused on the below key actions: Leadership development LeadPioneers is our Leadership development program that provides a structured approach to leadership, setting clear expectations and fostering a shared understanding of effective leadership practices. Through this program, we equip leaders with the skills they need to lead their people and organization in line with present and future demands. LeadPioneers offers two distinct learning tracks: Leading Others, tailored for leaders managing individual contributors, and Leading Leaders designed to educate leaders of other managers. Managed by the HR Development Team, LeadPio- neers trains leaders in cohorts throughout 2025, with an objective for all leaders with at least three direct reports to complete the program by third quarter of 2026. Expected outcomes include consistently enhancing leadership capabilities, establishing a culture prioritizing accountability, and a resilient leadership framework aligned with our strategic objectives. Performance management system Our Performance Management system is a manage- ment tool to align expectations between employees and managers. It facilitates collaboration, dialogue, and follow-up on individual performance and devel- opment goals. By supporting continuous engagement and alignment on deliverables and development plans, it contributes to achieving long-term organi- zational objectives. Integrated into annual HR processes, the perfor- mance management system ensures ongoing value through structured discussions and actionable outcomes. Expected benefits include improved performance tracking, focused development efforts, and enhanced alignment with organizational prior- ities. Targets Our people are the key to our success and although we have not formalized targets, we continuously monitor our performance in relation to talent attraction and retention, including work-life balance. This is done through various processes, including tracking turnover rates, employee engagement surveys, performance and development talks, lead- ership development program, one-on-one dialogue with managers, and exit-interviews. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 84 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"IRO Equal treatment and opportunities for all Given our global presence and reliance on a highly skilled workforce, we may risk our ability to attract and retain talent if we do not keep momentum in current efforts and continuously develop initiatives to ensure that we maintain an inclusive and diverse workforce. This risk is linked to our dependency on human resources and our ability to attract and retain talent, including risk considerations related to our reputation, legal sanctions, and/or labour disputes. Policies Diversity and inclusion policy Our Diversity and inclusion policy outlines our approach to ensuring equal treatment and oppor- tunities for all employees, which is a key compo- nent of our sustainability efforts. The policy aims to create a work environment where everyone feels respected and valued in support of a diverse workplace. The policy covers the following grounds for discrimination, but not limited to: gender, age, educational background, ethnicity, physical impair- ment, religion, or sexual orientation. The policy addresses material impacts such as elim- inating biases in selection and promotion processes and preventing discriminatory behavior. Executive Management is accountable for the imple- mentation of the diversity and inclusion policy. Global policy on sexual harassment and global policy on bullying and harassment at work We do not accept any kinds of bullying and harass- ment. Our policies stress the importance of respect and dignity while providing guidance on preventing and remediating inappropriate behaviors. Addition- ally, they emphasize the collective for cultivating a workplace where every individual feels safe, valued, and empowered to contribute fully. Maintaining a respectful workplace is a shared responsibility. All employees, including manage- ment, are accountable for adhering to the principles outlined in the policies. Members of the Executive Management are the most senior level account- able for the implementation of these policies. The policies are accessible for all employees via our intranet. We do not currently have specific policy commit- ments related to positive action for people from groups at particular risk of vulnerability Processes for remediation We are committed to maintaining a safe, inclusive, and respectful workplace where all employees are treated with dignity. We encourage employees to address concerns at the local level whenever possible. Employees who experience or witness inappropriate behavior should first attempt to resolve the issue by speaking with the individuals involved, their immediate manager, or a trusted colleague. If further support is needed, employees are urged to contact their HR Business Partner, who will facilitate resolution in line with company guidelines. In cases where local resolution is not possible, or if the concern involves a direct manager, employees may escalate the issue to a higher-level manager, a union or Workers Council representative or the Health and Safety Representative. We uphold a strict non-retaliation policy to protect employees who report concerns in good faith and continuously review our processes to ensure they remain effective, accessible, and aligned with regu- latory and ethical standards. Actions In 2024, we conducted two online programs as part of our ongoing commitment to educate employees on the importance of inclusion and unconscious bias. The sessions were focused on two key topics. 1. Inclusive Colleagueship - emphasizing the importance of inclusion, belonging, and allyship through practical, everyday actions; and 2. Unconscious Bias - exploring the impact of unconscious bias and impact on the workplace, providing strategies to mitigate bias. The sessions offered actionable insights on how employees contribute to an inclusive work environ- ment, emphasizing personal and collective respon- sibility in fostering an inclusive work environment. Targets Our people are the key to our success and although we have not formalized targets, we continuously monitor our performance in relation to equal opportunities and treatment. This is done through awareness trainings, salary benchmarks checks, and employee engagement surveys. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 85 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"Gender distribution in Top management S1 – table 5 in headcounts 2024 Number Share Female 11 46 % Male 13 54 % Total employees 24 100 % Age distribution in own workforce S1 – table 6 in headcounts 2024 Under 30 years old 228 30-50 years old 963 Over 50 years old 462 Total employees 1,653 Remuneration metrics S1 – table 7 2024 Gender pay gap1 -1,6% CEO remuneration ratio 29 1 Negative gender pay gap reflects a pay gap in favor of males Accounting policies Gender diversity at Top management level Top management is defined as positions at the Vice President level and above. Gender distribution is shown as headcounts and share distributed between male and female. The gender breakdown of employees at the Top management level is based on records from the HR system at the end of the reporting period. Age distribution The age breakdown of employees is based on records from the HR system at the end of the reporting period. Gender pay gap Gender pay gap is defined as the difference of average pay levels between female and male employees, expressed as percentage of the average pay level of male employees. The metric is calculated based on total annual remuneration which includes both fixed and variable components. CEO remuneration ratio The CEO remuneration ratio reflects the annual ratio between the total remuneration of the CEO (the highest paid individual) and the average remuneration of all employees (measured in FTEs) within the company, excluding executive management. The calculation of the ratio is consistent with the calculation of CEO pay ratio disclosed in our Remuneration Report. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 86 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"IRO Health and safety We have processes in our manufacturing and research facilities that could pose a risk of nega- tive impact on a person’s physical health. This also applies to non-employees carrying out activities and services on our behalf. The negative impacts relate to individual incidents only for the part of our workforce that work in the context of our vaccines research and manufacturing. As this is an inherent part of our business model (end-to-end develop- ment and manufacturing of vaccines) decreasing the risk of negative impacts related to health and safety remains a priority on all our manufacturing and research facilities. The potential impacts described inform daily and strategic decision-making. Policies Global Environmental, Health & Safety Policy Our Global Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy covers all our business areas and locations. The policy emphasizes high standards of EHS performance, ensuring compliance with applicable EHS laws, managing EHS risks, and continuously seeking opportunities to reduce risks and improve performance. It highlights the importance of educating and enabling employees and key stakeholders inter- nally and externally to work safely and responsibly, fostering positive interactions and work practices through open dialogue on EHS matters. The EHS Management System, overseen by governance arrangements involving all company levels, ensures that performance is monitored and regularly reviewed to meet high standards and provide value to stakeholders. Site heads are responsible for implementing the policy and ensuring that it is effective. The content was revised during 2024, and the updated policy was published in the beginning of 2025. Employee vaccination program The policy aims to ensure health and safety of employees operating in environments with poten- tial exposure to infectious agents. It establishes protocols for vaccination for employees working in high-risk environments with live viruses. Objectives include protecting employees from health risks associated with exposure to infectious agents, implementing stringent access control to high-risk areas, aligning with global health and biosafety standards, thereby minimizing potential adverse impacts on physical health. The policy applies to all employees engaged in activities involving potential exposure to virus, including employees in production, quality control, environmental monitoring, and support roles operating in designated high-risk areas. The policy primarily addresses operations within our facilities, specifically activities directly involving the handling or production of hazardous biological materials. Engaging with our workforce We prioritize the health and safety of our employees through structured engagement processes with our workforce and their representatives. Our EHS Committee operates at the strategic level, collab- orating closely with Site Heads and the ESG repre- sentatives to plan, lead, and coordinate our efforts in protecting employee health and safety, the surrounding environment, and risk prevention. This committee ensures that strategic decisions align with our commitment to maintaining a safe and healthy workplace. Engagement with our workforce occurs directly and through workers' representatives. This engage- ment is integral to our decision-making processes, ensuring that the perspectives of our workforce are incorporated into managing actual and potential impacts. Engagement occurs at multiple stages, including planning, implementation, and review phases of health and safety initiatives. The types of engagement include regular meetings, surveys, and feedback sessions, conducted frequently to ensure continuous dialogue and improvement. The Global EHS Director holds the overall respon- sibility for setting the strategic direction for EHS, aligning with each global function, while ensuring workforce engagement and feedback is the core of the strategy. The site heads have the overall responsibility, which is a legal requirement in most countries. Our Global EHS Operations team has been estab- lished at the operational level, working in collabo- ration with EHS Management to handle and partici- pate in risk prevention activities. These groups play a role in addressing unsustainable EHS matters, either by resolving them directly or escalating them to the EHS Committee. The EHS Committee act as a liaison between employees and the work environ- ment organization, ensuring effective communica- tion and collaboration. They are also responsible for providing comprehensive training and instruction to all employees, ensuring that everyone is well-in- formed about safety protocols and best practices. Where relevant, we incorporate specific considera- tions to vulnerable employees, including pregnant women. We have an internal policy that outlines specific tasks pregnant women should avoid to prevent any risk to their health and safety. This policy helps protect both the expectant mother and her unborn child by minimizing workplace hazards. The policy stipulates that specific individual risk assessments must be carried out for each pregnant worker. Where a potential risk is identified and cannot be eliminated, we will find alternative work arrangement, which will not impact the expectant or breastfeeding mother or unborn child. By providing clear guidelines and adjusting work duties Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 87 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"as needed, we aim to create a supportive and safe environment for pregnant employees. Processes for remediation We apply established processes to address and remediate negative impacts on employees within own workforce, and to provide accessible chan- nels for raising concerns. Employees are provided multiple options for reporting, including health and safety management system, health and safety representatives, or their direct managers. Employees are encouraged to report incidents, near- misses, or unsafe conditions to help maintain a safe and compliant working environment. The health and safety management system enables structured reporting and documentation facilitating the anal- ysis and resolution of reported issues in alignment with regulatory requirements. The objective is to implement a health and safety management system globally to standardize system management across all locations. Currently, we are in the process of identifying global internal stand- ards to ensure that we drive continuous improve- ment in addition to legislative compliance. Each site has their individual health and safety management system. For countries or sites where the health and safety management system are not yet in place, local processes, manuals, procedures, and systems are in effect. EHS representatives responsible for time-tracking tools and regulatory documentation, manage the local EHS Management systems and collaborate closely with our HR department on health-related concerns and reporting of these to authorities. All processes adhere to applicable local legal requirements, ensuring full compliance. Actions We have developed a new Global EHS strategy with the purpose of further defining our roadmap and focus areas. We have started implementation and are planning to fill several key full-time positions in our EHS department with the purpose of driving our strategic ambitions, including areas related to the identified potential negative impact. This includes building governance, leadership, standards and capabilities on a global and local level across all EHS topics. By hiring additional dedicated roles in the EHS area, we are better equipped to identify and mitigate risks, provide comprehensive training, and ensure a safe and supportive work environment for all our employees. As part of our strategy, we have introduced the updated Global EHS Policy with the purpose of addressing health and safety impacts related to our own workforce as well as on- and off-premise workers. Targets Our sustainability-related company goals for 2025 include a target relating to the health and safety of workers on-premise, regardless of their type of employment. The target is supporting the objectives of our Global EHS Policy and Global EHS Strategy. The EHS department and Executive Management have been involved in the target setting process. Target performance will be assessed by the end of the year. Our target is to further reduce health hazards in our operating sites by expanding our current portfolio of risk assessments in each of our locations and addressing 90% of identified mitigating actions. Risk assessments are an integral part of how we operate, and opportunity assessments are underway to expand on the work previously undertaken by each location. The baseline will be finalized by the end of quarter one in 2025, and tracking will be conducted by EHS on a quarterly basis thereafter. Target perfor- mance will be assessed by the end of the year. Health and safety metrics related to own employees S1 – table 8 in numbers 2024 Percentage of workforce covered under health & safety management system 100% Fatalities as a result of work-related injuries & ill health 0 Recordable work-related accidents 6 Rate of recordable work-related accidents 2.3 Total number of incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts S1 – table 9 in numbers 2024 Incidents of discrimination, including harassment 0 Complaints filed through channels for people to raise concerns 0 Fines, penalties, and compensation for damages resulting from discrimination (in DKK) 0 Severe human rights incidents 0 Fines, penalties and compensation for damages resulting from severe human rights incidents (in DKK) 0 Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 88 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"Accounting policies The percentage of employees covered by health and safety management system The metric is determined through information gathered from the health and safety responsible person in each of our locations. The percentage coverage is calculated as the number of employees (headcounts) covered by health and safety management systems divided by all employees (headcounts). The number of fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and work-related ill health The number of fatalities is determined based on records from our HR system. It refers to death of employees resulting from work-related accidents and work-related ill health. All types of employees are considered for the metric. The number and rate of recordable work-related accidents A recordable work-related accident is registered if the accident results in the employee being unable to perform their usual work for one day or more, excluding the day of the injury. The rate of work-related accidents represents the number of cases per one million hours worked. It is calculated by dividing the total number of work-re- lated accidents by the total hours worked by our own employees, and multiplying the result by one million. The number of hours worked by our employees is estimated based on standard full-time equivalent (FTE) hours, taking into account entitlements to leave periods, including vacation and public holidays. The calculation excludes individually registered vacation days. Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts The metrics represent the number of discrimination incidents, complaints and severe human rights cases reported to the Ethics Hotline or to our Legal & Compli- ance team in the reporting period. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 89 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
