"BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 42 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 43 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CapEx The applied denominator is equal to all additions to tangible and intangible assets considered before depreciation, amortisation and any re-measurements, including those resulting from revaluations and impairments, for the relevant financial year and excluding fair value changes. The denominator also covered additions to tangible and intangible assets resulting from business combinations. The numerator is determined by including the portion of CapEx associated with eligible or aligned activities. Therefore the numerator was calculated using the costs associated with activity 7.2 Renovation of existing buildings. OpEx The applied denominator is equal to all direct non- capitalised costs that relate to research and development, building renovation measures, short- term lease, maintenance and repair, and any other direct expenditures relating to the day-to-day servicing of assets of property, plant and equipment by the undertaking or third party to whom activities are outsourced that are necessary to ensure the continued and effective functioning of such assets. The numerator is determined by including the portion of OpEx associated with eligible or aligned activities. Therefore the numerator was calculated using the costs associated with activities, 6.4 - Operation of personal mobility devices, cycle logistics under climate change mitigation and, 6.5 - Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles under climate change mitigation. F. ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION (EU)2020/852 Brunel has adhered to the highest standards of integrity and has accurately followed the defined scope and definitions as outlined by the most recent available information provided by the European Commission or associated working groups such as the Platform of Sustainable Finance (Technical Expert Group (TEG)). We have not included any eligible activities or associated information that was deemed out of the scope of these definitions. In instances where the inclusion of information was uncertain, a decision was taken to exclude this information to allow for further analysis. In this regard, we commit to correcting or omitting any inaccuracies in the subsequent reporting year based on new insights or clarifications provided by the European Commission. The EU Taxonomy is a dynamic piece of legislation, expected to undergo further updates in the coming years. These updates may include additional economic activities, technical screening criteria, and/or environmental or social objectives. We will continue to review all new communications or publications issued by the European Commission or associated working groups related to the EU Taxonomy at such times, to determine any potential reporting implications and to ensure accuracy and transparency going forward. B. ELIGIBILITY AND ALIGNMENT ANALYSIS Following our 2023 EU Taxonomy assessment, a revised eligibility analysis was conducted on our revenue generating activities, which falls under Human Resourcing services, referenced under NACE Code N78 (Employment activities) for reporting period 2024 against all six environmental objectives. Furthermore, the EU Taxonomy Navigator, made available by the European Commission, was screened and reviewed to determine potential eligibility. It has therefore been determined that Brunel currently does not engage in any turnover generating activities that fall within the scope of the EU Taxonomy. We understand that the EU Taxonomy and the Climate Delegated Act as well as the Environmental Delegated Act including its Annexes requires non-financial undertakings with non-Taxonomy eligible economic activities to report on the part of the CapEx and OpEx related to the purchase of output from Taxonomy- aligned economic activities and individual measures enabling target activities to become low-carbon or to lead to greenhouse gas reductions. In this regard we reviewed so-called cross-cutting activities that are not directly related to our primary business activities and are not revenue-generating but still are of relevance and in scope of CapEx and OpEx calculation methodology as per the EU taxonomy regulations. Through the assessment, the following activities were assessed to be eligible: Activity EU Taxonomy Activity Associated EU taxonomy objective Lease Cars 6.5 - Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles under climate change mitigation Climate change mitigation Employee bicycle schemes 6.4. Operation of personal mobility devices, cycle logistics under climate change mitigation Climate change mitigation Renovation of building 7.2. - Renovation of existing building Climate change mitigation C. ALIGNMENT ANALYSIS Although the activities mentioned above have been identified as eligible, further analysis was performed using the technical screening criteria to assess their alignment with the EU Taxonomy. It was determined that we do not have the necessary or sufficient data to evaluate alignment with the respective technical screening criteria for our eligible activities. D. QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES Subsequent to the above eligibility analysis, the proportion of our current turnover that can be considered as eligible and/or aligned is 0%. Through assessment of potential CapEx and OpEx associated costs under the EU Taxonomy, we concluded that we have 10% eligible CapEx, 8.9% eligible OpEx and 0% aligned CapEx and OpEx costs. (2023: CAPEX 18%, OpEx 0.02%, Turnover 0%). For presenting our Taxonomy KPIs for Turnover, CapEx and OpEx we use the templates provided in Annex II to the Disclosures Delegated Act. E. QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES Turnover The applied denominator, defined as per Article 2, point (5), of Directive 2013/34/EU, is defined as total revenue as disclosed in the consolidated financial statements. The numerator (proportion of eligible and aligned turnover ) is determined as the part of the net turnover derived from products or services, including intangibles, associated with Taxonomy-eligible economic activities. Listed on the Stock Exchange 1997 BRUNEL MILESTONES"
