"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 197 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Decarbonizing our own operations (Scope 1, 2 and Scope 3 energy emissions) Emission reduction to date 2019 Baseline Energy efficiency Renewables Alternative fuels 2028 expected emissions Notes on chart 1) Emission reduction to date provides a view of the emission reduction already achieved 2019‐2024 for our Scope 1, 2 and Scope 3 energy emissions (T&D losses) combined). For more detail on emission reductions achieved please see Sections 4.3.3.3 and 4.3.3.5. 2) The chart gives an illustrative view for future projected emission reductions per decarbonization lever for energy efficiency, renewables and switching to alternative fuels for the period 2025‐2028. Please note that not all initiatives have been fully quantified or included within these figures. 3) The impact of business growth (past or future) has not been included in the above chart, as our experience is that the relationship between growth and energy consumption is not linear. 2. Reducing our Scope 3 emissions (purchased goods & services, business travel and commuting) The remaining 84% of our GHG emissions in the baseline year was largely from three sources: purchased goods & services (27%), business travel (30%) and employee commuting (27%). Our climate transition plan is focussed on ensuring our trajectory remains in line with both our near‐term targets (2030), and our long‐term net zero targets (2040). Realistically, the pathway towards our targets will not be linear: we are likely to see year‐on‐year shifts in Scope 3 emissions reflecting changes to our business, as well as actions within our supply chain. However, this pathway gives us a useful reference against which to measure progress, and we intend to refine it as we learn more about the forecast emissions reduction impact of our actions. Our climate transition plan has so far helped us deliver strong results in terms of reducing business travel emissions (down 51% since 2019) and employee commuting (down 19% since 2019 including the impact of working from home). The Covid pandemic undoubtedly played a role in accelerating our adoption of hybrid working and sustainable delivery models, but we have managed to sustain and even add further emission reductions in business travel emissions (down 7% in 2024 vs 2023), in spite of significant headcount growth since 2019 (up 26% since 2019). Our Scope 3 purchased goods and service emissions have proved more complex and challenging to address, particularly in a context where our business has grown so much (2024 revenue is 56% higher than 2019), which inevitably increases our spend and therefore associated emissions. As such, our focus for the next few years remains on improving the quality, accessibility and availability of GHG emissions data, as well as collaborating with suppliers to reduce emissions where feasible. As with the entire climate challenge, we will only achieve our ambitions through collaboration and partnership, with our customers, our partners, our suppliers, our sector peers, and the governments and citizens in the countries where we operate. We must all play our part and Capgemini remains committed to accelerate our transition to a sustainable, net zero future. Reducing our Scope 3 emissions Historic growth impact 2019 Baseline Emission reduction to date Initiatives planned 2028 Expected emissions Note on chart 1) Historic growth impact is based on the 2019‐2024 impact of headcount growth for business travel and commuting, and the impact of overall business growth for purchased goods and services. 2) Emission reduction to date provides a view of the emission reduction already achieved 2019‐2024. 3) Initiatives planned gives a forecast for how much further reduction is expected in Scope 3 business travel, purchased goods & services and commuting emissions 2025‐2028 once expected growth is taken into account. Please note that not all initiatives have been fully quantified or included within these figures. d) Our decarbonization levers, progress and actions Within this Section we provide a high level summary of our key areas of progress so far in delivering our climate transition plan, as well as sharing insights on future planned actions. More detail on our approach and key actions in 2024 is provided in Section 4.3,3,2 and 4.3.3.3. Some of the initiatives described are not intended to deliver significant emission reductions by 2028, but instead are focussed on building capacity and laying the essential foundations needed to move towards net zero."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 198 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Our initiatives reflect: To reduce emissions: We will prioritize actions in these areas: To drive action to meet our targets: The biggest contributors to our Scope 1 & 2 emissions FY 2024 Scope 1&2 emissions Total Scope 1& 2 Emissions 11,159 tCO2e Offices and data centers (electricity, heating, cooling) F-Gas A) Energy efficiency B) Alternative fuels C) Renewables D) F-Gas Reduction • Scope 1 & 2 near term target -80% absolute reduction by 2030 • Scope 1 & 2 long term target -90% absolute reduction by 2040 • Share of renewable electricity 100% by 2025 The biggest contributors to our Scope 3 emissions FY 2024 Scope 3 emissions Total Scope 3 Emissions 727,139 tCO2e Purchased goods and services Transmission & distribution losses Waste Business travel Employee commuting and working from home E) Extending product lifetime F) Supplier engagement and selection G) Sustainable IT H) EV Fleet I) Virtual Collaboration J) Commuting and WFH K) Education L) Business travel • Business travel emissions near term target -55% per employee reduction by 2030 • Commuting emissions near term -55% per employee reduction by 2030 • PG&S emissions near term reduction -50% absolute by 2030 • Total Scope 3 emissions long term target -90% absolute by 2040 • Share of electric vehicles in company car fleet 100% in 2030 1. Decarbonizing our own operations (Scope 1 & 2 emissions, Scope 3 energy emissions) A – Energy Efficiency We have already met and exceeded our 2040 Scope 1 and 2 target, with our Scope 1 and 2 emissions 93% lower in 2024 than they were in 2019. The major driver behind this has been our transition to renewable electricity, with 98% of our electricity coming from renewable sources in 2024. Improving our energy efficiency has also reduced our emissions, with our flagship initiative, our global Energy Command Center alongside various conservation measures helping us cut our total energy consumption by 42% since 2019. Looking forward, our energy efficiency focus will be on three main areas: 1) integrating new sites into our Global Energy Command Center (ECC) – Launched in 2022, our ECC uses the latest technology to enable digitization of our energy management approach and maintain the health of energy assets. The ECC measures various metrics such as indoor air quality, energy and water intensity, performance of critical assets, renewable electricity generation, and enables a proactive response to optimizing energy consumption. It has helped drive a 29% reduction in energy consumption across our campuses in India, with a saving of 25 GWh of electricity in 2024 vs. 2019; 2) continuing to roll out energy efficiency measures across our offices and data centers, such as installing more efficient chillers and air handling units. The continued deployment of ISO 50001 energy management certification will also continue to facilitate the identification and prioritization of specific energy conservation measures for each site; and 3) ensuring that we work with landlords to make our buildings as sustainable as possible – we have for several years been deploying sustainability criteria for how we select new office buildings, creating one of the world’s first green lease frameworks. This approach, which has been externally recognized by the Green Lease Leaders program, involves our global real estate team applying key criteria including renewable energy, energy efficiency, electric vehicle charging points, and the proximity to public transport when choosing buildings. Many of our flagship offices across the Group are highly energy efficient and have been certified under green building accreditation schemes like LEED or IGBC or BREEAM. Our focus going forward will focus on enhancing collaboration with landlords to ensure continuous improvement for the duration of the lease."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 199 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 B – Alternative Fuels Capgemini is actively exploring and implementing alternatives that reduce our reliance on natural gas, diesel and LPG (currently used in several office locations for heating, back‐up generation and cooking purposes). Our combined natural gas, LPG and diesel emissions have reduced by 58% since 2019, as we have reduced the use of these fossil‐based fuels and transitioned to alternative solutions. We have installed dual feeder electricity supply at several Indian campuses, providing a secondary connection from the state utility and reducing our reliance on diesel generators if one supply experiences an outage. Looking forward, our climate transition plan will focus on a key focus will be on deploying Bio-Compressed Natural Gas across offices in India providing a more sustainable alternative to LPG within our campus kitchens and diesel used in generators. C – Renewables Capgemini has committed to transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025, and as of the end of 2024, this transition was close to complete. 98% of our electricity consumption came from renewable sources in 2024, up from 28% in 2019. This has been achieved through a combination of installing large scale solar arrays in India (now accounting for 14% of electricity used in India), as well as the deployment of Power Purchase Agreements where feasible and procuring high quality renewable certificates elsewhere. During 2024, in collaboration with landlords, we installed solar panels in offices in Germany and Guatemala. We have also begun rolling out state‐of‐the‐art Battery Energy Storage Solutions across India to enable excess solar energy to be stored during the day and stored to be during evening peak hours, when the electricity grid tends to be more carbon intensive. Looking forward, we have an investment roadmap for the continued deployment of on‐site solar solutions and Battery Energy Storage Solutions at applicable sites. We will continue to assess the feasibility of installing on‐site solar solutions in partnership with our landlords. D – F-Gas Reduction We have reduced the fluorinated gas emissions from our air conditioning systems by 17% since 2019, with key areas of focus during this phase of the climate transition plan including: — HVAC System Upgrades: we have been upgrading heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems to more efficient models that use lower global warming potential (GWP) refrigerants; — Regular Maintenance and Leak Detection: we have enhanced maintenance protocols to include regular checks and prompt repairs of any leaks in HVAC systems. This proactive approach minimizes the release of F-gases into the atmosphere; and — Employee Training and Enhanced Monitoring: we provide training to our facility management teams on best practices for handling and disposing of F-gases and ensure F-gas emissions are monitored and reported on an ongoing basis. We will keep improving the maintenance and operation of cooling and fire suppression systems to minimize accidental releases and reflect this in our operating standards. The focus going forward of our investment in this area is particularly around upgrading to more advanced HVAC systems, which are both more energy efficient and use refrigerant gases with a lower GWP than conventional F-gas. 2. Decarbonizing our Scope 3 emissions E – Extending product lifetime Whilst the majority of our purchases relate to services, rather than physical products, IT hardware and furniture are two key purchases where we have been exploring the potential to reduce GHG emissions through working with suppliers on extending product lifetimes. Together with a leading global office furniture designer and manufacturer, we have been cataloging furniture from closing offices to maximize opportunities for reuse in new spaces or donation (see Section 4.4.2.2 for details). For our IT hardware, we have been working with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to extend the working life of our laptops through a maintenance and refurbishment program, as well as ensuring more efficient models are used where replacement is the only option. This approach helps keep equipment functional and efficient for longer and allows the progressive adoption of circularity practices. We have committed to refurbishing 10,000 laptops by the end of the 2025, and by the end of 2024, around 7,000 laptops had been refurbished, avoiding an estimated 1,000 tonnes CO2e to date. (see Section 4.3.3.3 and 4.4.2.3 for details). Our focus going forward will be on continuing to work with suppliers to develop a pragmatic approach to managing extending product lifetime whilst also developing our internal processes to support repair and reuse. F – Supplier engagement and selection For most companies, supply chain emissions are the hardest both to measure and reduce. In 2024, 41% of our carbon emissions came from our purchased goods and services, meaning tackling this challenge is fundamental to achieving net zero. At the end of 2023, we launched our Supply Chain ESG Pledge to strengthen supplier engagement and support the achievement of our carbon reduction goals. The Pledge requires suppliers to disclose their annual GHG emissions, set science‐based targets validated by SBTi, and share their climate transition and low‐carbon product strategies. Throughout 2024, we fostered collaboration through supplier events and leadership discussions, creating opportunities to explore target setting, emissions tracking, and pathways to decarbonization. Our efforts have been recognized by CDP, earning us a spot on the 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for driving meaningful climate action within our supply chain. As a CDP supply chain member, we actively support our suppliers in calculating emissions and building their climate change capabilities. This partnership has enhanced the precision of our Scope 3 data while providing deeper insights into the progress and challenges suppliers face on their journey to net zero. We will continue to incentivize and encourage more of our suppliers to share carbon footprint data with us (bilaterally, through industry forums, or via data platforms such as CDP)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 200 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 We will continue to develop our systems capabilities to analyze carbon data and enable our models to be updated with the latest data available from our suppliers and partners as they decarbonize their products and operations. We will also develop our organizational capability by deepening our understanding of carbon calculation methodologies, so that we can draw further insights from our carbon data to support decision‐making and supplier selection as well as increase our weighting of environmental assessment criteria within our RFP processes with suppliers. G – Sustainable IT Ensuring the implementation of sustainable IT practices across our operations and value chain is critical in contributing to improving our energy intensity and progressing our net zero transition. During 2024, we continued the development of our energy management software on across Group laptops to monitor and optimize energy usage. The software enables optimized configuration management, which ensures both proactive maintenance and efficiency. Additionally, we replaced hardware‐based phones with a software‐based communication solution, enabling us to decommission over 75,000 IP phones since 2021. We continue to consolidate and modernize our data center environments using private cloud platforms and we are increasing our adoption of public cloud services, which typically have lower energy consumption and carbon emissions. We are also transforming our enterprise application portfolio by investing into more modern technologies such as cloud and SaaS platforms. As an outcome of this modernization and rationalization, legacy applications are being retired from the portfolio, reducing the underlying infrastructure footprint. H – EV Fleet Our membership of the EV100 initiative commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. Capgemini has committed to transitioning its entire 12,000‐vehicle fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles by 2030. Our first phase of this climate transition plan has focussed on phasing out pure petrol and diesel cars (employees can no longer order new vehicles unless they are electric or plug‐in hybrid), as well as introducing a new cap of 50 gCO2/km for new hybrid car orders to encourage more sustainable choices. In 2024, 26% of our vehicles were pure EVs and 71% when including plug‐in hybrids. We have also installed over 2,600 electric vehicle (EV) charge points in place around the Group, providing our employees with charging for their vehicles. Our next phase, from 2025, will be to start to phase out plug‐in hybrid vehicles where practical. We will also continue to roll out more charging capabilities to support the uptake of both company and private EVs and offer financial incentives to employees who choose to lease or purchase electric vehicles. We will continue to develop partnerships with leasing companies that offer attractive deals on EVs for employees, as well as run awareness and education campaigns to inform employees about the benefits of EVs, both for the environment and for personal cost savings. Additionally, we will work with EV100 to advocate for policies and investment in public infrastructure that support wider adoption of electric vehicles, including expansion of public EV charging infrastructure in markets where we operate. I – Virtual Collaboration A significant area of focus has been on investments in IT solutions and equipment to support hybrid working and virtual collaboration, empowering our people to work seamlessly from anywhere, anytime. Building on the foundation laid during Covid, we have upgraded office spaces with advanced AV technologies, enabling efficient connections and collaboration while reducing emissions from both office commutes and business travel. During 2023, 49 meeting rooms with obsolete AV infrastructure were refreshed with more energy‐efficient AV equipment, and 185 meeting rooms were upgraded to video‐enabled meeting rooms to enhance the experience of hybrid work environments. In 2024, we continued this momentum, improving the collaboration technology in a further 1,200 meetings rooms (see Section 4.3.3.3 for details). Looking ahead, we remain focused on exploring the latest innovations and technological advances to enable employees to connect and collaborate effortlessly, reducing GHG emission from both. J – Sustainable Mobility and and Working from Home We offer a variety of country‐specific mobility programs to support sustainable commuting, which are tailored in response to the commute patterns and improvement opportunities in each country. In Germany and the Netherlands, employees benefit from comprehensive mobility packages, including public transport access for private travel, while other countries like Italy, Spain, and France offer subsidized or discounted public transport. To encourage cycling, we provide financial support for bikes and e‐bikes in countries such as the United Kingdom, Netherlands, France, and Portugal, alongside initiatives like cycling clubs and repair workshops in Germany. In the UK, employees are supported with webinars on home energy efficiency, access to energy assessments, and interest‐free loans for implementing recommended improvements. Recognizing that there are still many locations where car is the preferred option, initiatives like ride‐sharing and carpooling have been deployed for example in India, as well as EV charging infrastructure to support and encourage EV adoption across the Group are underway in multiple regions. In India, we have invested for many years in providing a comprehensive company bus service for employees. Going forward, we are looking to switch our bus fleet to bio‐compressed natural gas powered buses to reduce commuting emissions. K – Education The Sustainability Campus, launched in 2022, provides a dynamic training platform designed to equip all employees with the knowledge and tools to address environmental sustainability challenges. Continuously enriched since its inception, the Campus offers tailored programs for every role, empowering employees to understand the impact of their work and drive positive change. The Campus provides training at three levels: 1) Sustainability Awareness: A foundational module introducing key environmental sustainability challenges for our planet, our organization and our clients, updated in 2024 with a new version introduced by our Group CEO. In 2024, this training was translated into multiple languages and became mandatory for all employees, alongside ethics and cybersecurity modules; 2) Role-Specific Training: Customized modules that address the unique challenges and actionable insights for technical and non‐technical roles across the Group; and"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 201 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 3) Expertise Development: Advanced training on specialized topics linked to industry and clients offers such as hydrogen and biodiversity, food waste and biodiversity. To deepen expertise, we also launched extended programs in collaboration with leading universities such as the University of Exeter (UK), Stanford University (US), and ESSEC (France), providing participants with certification upon completion. In 2025, we plan to integrate sustainability‐related questions into our monthly global employee pulse surveys to gauge understanding and sentiment, ensuring we continue to refine our approach and foster meaningful engagement. L – Business travel During this initial phase of our climate transition plan, our first focus in 2021 was on re‐envisioning our Group Travel Policy to ensure sustainability was fully embedded, with clear guidelines around how sustainable choices should be prioritized. The policy has been strengthened further since, with a requirement that employees take the train instead of traveling by plane for all journeys that can be reached by rail in less than three hours. The policy also encourages rail travel for journeys of four hours or less. Annual travel targets are cascaded to each country by our Net Zero Board, and we monitor progress monthly through carbon dashboards, enabling us to pinpoint unexpected trends and alert key stakeholders quickly. Over the last two years, we have launched and developed a new set of travel dashboards across our global sustainability network, enabling the better tracking of travel emissions and more granular analysis of air travel in particular. These dashboards provide faster access to information about the progress of each country against our targets, as well as enabling tracking across different business units and different travel modes. They also provide very detailed insights such as the most frequent flight routes for different employee grades. To ensure locally relevant plans are in place to address business travel, we will continue cascading travel targets to each country and working with country sustainability teams to ensure action plans are in place these at a country level. Alongside this, we have reviewed and enhanced best practice guidelines for Group events, including policies on travel modes, to ensure alignment with our sustainability objectives. In 2025, we will publish comprehensive guidance to support the decarbonization of our annual events. Additionally, we will focus on enhancing our management information dashboards and carbon accounting processes to provide accurate, up‐to‐date insights that empower the business to make informed and efficient travel decisions. As part of our continuous sourcing strategy, we are also assessing the viability of leveraging sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) to support reductions in air travel emissions. 3. Our governance Our Net Zero Board provides executive level governance for our environmental sustainability program and our climate transition pathway with responsibility for monitoring climate risks and reviewing, debating, and approving the climate transition plan, as well as other sustainability plans, policies and practices for the Group. Our net zero program and our climate transition pathway are underpinned by two key management systems: our global Environmental Management System and our carbon accounting system. Please refer to Section 4.3.2 “Our governance dedicated to climate change” for more information on Governance. e) Nature and climate solutions Achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts. The voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. Carbon removal credits can also play a valuable role when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to help mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated. Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our own business, we recognize this will take time and are therefore also investing in at scale nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere now. Please refer to the Section related to Nature and Climate Solutions of Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” for more information. f) Engagement strategy Working with others across is essential to achieving an economy‐wide transition. Addressing the systemic issue of climate change requires collective action and collaboration beyond our own value chain. Please refer to Sections 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” and 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives” for more information on how we are committed to adding our voice together with other businesses from our sector and beyond, to amplify our messages, create momentum and exert pressure to accelerate action on topics where it is urgently needed. Our ability to deliver our climate transition plan will rely on sufficient investment, resources and collective action from across the whole Capgemini Group as described in this Section 4.3.3. In particular, committed investments for the period 2025 to 2027 should amount to around 16 million euros of Capex and Opex. The most significant investment planned is in India, where the majority of our employees are based and there is a very strong focus on energy efficiency in buildings, renewable energy generation and transportation initiatives. There are examples of important investments given throughout this Section 4.3.3, whilst in Section 4.6 we provide further details of capex eligible and aligned to EU Taxonomy. Committed investments have been assessed using the impairment test process implemented for the consolidated financial statements to ensure connectivity of information. Given the nature of our business, it is likely that additional investments will be decided in the coming years as we progress in the transition plan. 4.3.3.2 Policy contributing to our net zero program a) Environmental Policy 2024 Through our Environmental Policy, we have made a global commitment to continually improving our environmental performance against our Group objectives and targets (science‐ based targets where feasible) and to working with our clients to help them reduce their environmental impacts. We are also committed to train our employees on the impacts of their work on the environment and regularly consult with key stakeholders on environmental issues, ensuring our environmental program is responsive to their feedback."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 202 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) Our Group Environmental Policy is supported by targeted sub‐policies and strategies specific to each element of our 10‐point plan Our 10-point plan Col la bor ati ve gl oba l f ra me wo rk Ca rb on im pa ct s Be yo nd car bon sol uti on s Na tur e & cl im ate Bi od iv ers it y Wa te r Wa st e & ci rc ula r ec on o my Su st ain ab le IT Tr av el & sm ar t d eli ve ry En er gy Gl ob al le ad er shi p Co lle cti ve ac tio n cli ma te so lu ti on s Na tu re & Su pp ly ch ain Please see Section 4.3.2 “Our governance dedicated to climate change” for full description of the governance process around our environmental policies and strategy, including our climate policies and strategy. Ultimate accountability for the implementation of our Group Environment Policy sits with our Group CEO. Multiple stakeholders and committees are considered in the formulation and setting of environmental policies and strategies, particularly representatives from key internal functions (Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT, HR and Sustainability) as well as the Country Sustainability leads for larger Capgemini entities. The sub‐policies and strategies that underpin our Group Environment Policy are typically formulated at a function level and then debated and discussed both by the Cross-Function Committee and the Net Zero Board, with more significant decisions going to the CEO for final approval. The Group Environmental Policy is published on our website for external stakeholders, as well as being made available internally on noticeboards. 1. Energy Our focus is on ensuring our buildings are the most sustainable, operating them with optimum efficiency, and rapidly transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025. We support reducing energy consumption where practical and cost‐effective across all sites from which Capgemini operate, whilst maintaining a comfortable and productive working environment. Through the implementation of our Energy policy, we cover ISO 50001 across seven countries, as well as our continued commitment to RE100. Our buildings also meet LEED, IGBC and BREEAM certifications (please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” below for more information). Looking ahead, our strategy prioritizes achieving the highest sustainability standards for our buildings, optimizing operational efficiency, and completing the transition to 100% renewable electricity."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 203 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2. Sustainable IT Covering our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, we ensure the implementation of sustainable IT practices across our operations and value chain is critical in contributing to improving our energy intensity and progressing our net zero transition. Our sustainable IT transformation roadmap focuses on four key areas: 1) Reducing IT energy consumption: Reducing IT energy consumption and thereby lowering the use‐phase emissions from IT equipment energy usage; 2) Reducing embedded carbon footprint and adopting circularity: Reducing the embedded carbon footprint of purchased IT equipment and services, and progressively adopting circularity practices (including extending usable life of IT equipment and minimizing e‐waste); 3) Investing into sustainable IT tools and talent: Investing in sustainable IT tools and talent for monitoring, governance, and reduction of our footprint; and 4) Enabling digital collaboration: Enabling enterprise‐wide sustainable digital collaboration tools usage to support lower carbon delivery (hybrid working) models. Data Centers In our own captive data centers, we utilize energy‐efficient equipment to power the IT loads and efficient air conditioners for cooling. We monitor Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) and source our electricity from renewable sources (with 100% of electricity used at owned and leased data centers from renewable sources in 2024). We manage PUE through smart containment technology, using rack‐wise sensors controlled by an AI-powered engine. This system modulates the air conditioners and active floor tiles to optimize both cooling equipment and airflow, resulting in improved PUE across our data centers. All of this is centrally managed, monitored, and controlled via our Energy Command Center (ECC). Working with Group Procurement and our cloud infrastructure teams, where feasible we also monitor the energy consumption, PUE, water usage and carbon emissions associated with Third Party Managed Data Centers. AI and Cloud Services In terms of the growing presence of AI, our research shows that more than three‐quarters of organizations are conscious of environmental concerns around Gen AI (1). We recognize the need to weigh the immense potential of Gen AI against its cost to the planet and society. We are committed to taking a “sustainable by design” approach to developing Gen AI solutions that harness cutting‐edge data, AI, and climate tech to maximize business outcomes in a sustainable manner. Mitigation strategies include optimizing the amount of data required to train the models, working on smaller, task‐specific energy‐efficient models that employ more efficient training and operating algorithms, and powering the AI infrastructure with renewable energy as well as using more energy‐efficient data centers. We are starting to monitor energy consumption and carbon emissions associated with AI models to help promote transparency (1) Capgemini 2024, Gener(AI) ting the Future, Conversation for Tomorrow. around AI developments. Our Gen AI lifecycle analysis tools help organizations to mitigate environmental impact. Our Group IT team also has an internal policy in place to ensure that AI is not deployed without qualified use cases. These use cases are reviewed and approved by Group IT management after thorough evaluation. Recognizing the growth in this area, we are currently setting up a dedicated GenAI Board to approve use cases in the future. We also have a cloud‐first policy for building and operating IT solutions and services. Our employees are also provided with mandatory training around Generative AI, including on its sustainable and responsible use. For public cloud services, we engage leading hyper‐scalers providers that are leaders in sustainability practices. 3. Travel & Smart Delivery As a global business with over 340,000 people across more than 50 countries, travel remains a significant contributor to our carbon emissions. Our travel and smart delivery strategy comprises of three key parts: 1) Reduce business travel emissions through our low carbon digital delivery model: Our Group Travel Policy provides clear guidelines to ensure sustainable choices are prioritized. Last year, we strengthened this policy, with a requirement that employees take the train instead of traveling by plane for all journeys that can be reached by rail in less than three hours. The policy also encourages rail travel for journeys of four hours or less; 2) Transition to an electric vehicle fleet: Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow the ordering of pure petrol and diesel cars, and at the beginning of 2023, we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new car orders, which prevents the ordering of mild hybrids; 3) Reduce the impacts of employee commuting: we enable our employees to work effectively and more sustainably remotely, as well as offer several mobility support options for commuters. These range from company‐provided shuttle buses and free EV charging across some sites to heavily subsidized public transport and assistance for bike and e‐bike purchases in select countries. In some countries, we provide energy efficiency advice and support for employees working remotely, such as home energy assessments and interest‐free loans for energy‐saving improvements. Our Group Travel Policy will be reviewed in 2025 as part of a continued annual review process consulting all central functions with sustainability as an integral pillar to its development. 4. Supply Chain We have procurement processes that encourage our suppliers and business partners to provide products and services that align with our Group environmental objectives. Our ESG Pledge is now a part of our sustainable procurement engagement process with suppliers. Working with our major suppliers and partners on the pledge will support our journey to net zero."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 204 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Our strategy covers the following key areas: — engaging with our suppliers and supporting them in their net zero journeys; — setting minimum standards that our suppliers are required to follow, as well as enhanced expectations for key suppliers; — identifying high emission categories, and defining actions and strategies to reduce emissions; — incorporating sustainability into supplier selection processes, ensuring carbon impacts are visible alongside costs during decision making; and — underpinned by robust processes and systems to measure and monitor supplier emissions and emerging climate risks, with continual focus on improving data quality. Our approach to a sustainable supply chain is reflected in our commitment to reducing our absolute purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030, validated by the SBTi. Capgemini also has CDP supply chain membership to engage our suppliers, help identify climate risks and opportunities and to more accurately calculate emissions associated with our purchases. 5. Nature and Climate Solutions Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our business, with a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we are also investing in nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere today. Acting to address global net zero Currently achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts, and the voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. We know that carbon removal credits can be used when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated. However, we also believe that long‐term corporate objectives are not sufficiently addressing the high concentration levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases already in, and continuing to enter, the atmosphere today. These greenhouse gases are central to driving the current climate crisis. For these reasons, in addition to reducing our emissions as set out in our carbon reduction targets, we will retire carbon credits on a ton‐for‐ton basis against the residual carbon emissions, associated with our direct operations from 2025 and against the residual emissions including our supply chain from 2030. We recognize that questions over the integrity of carbon credits remain. We believe it is essential to align on the standards about how to best invest in carbon removals and abatement through nature and climate solutions. We welcome the ongoing work of organizations such as the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative (VCMI) and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (IC-VCM) to bring greater integrity to the supply and use of carbon credits and helping to close the loop on unsubstantiated carbon related claims. We will continue to review the developing guidelines and legislation. (1) We have excluded certain project types from our program. Most of the projects and credits available to date do not pass our assessment criteria, which includes, but is not limited to, additionality, permanence, leakage, integration with Indigenous Peoples and local communities, biodiversity, social and economic co‐benefits and contribution to systemic change. In addition, we have defined acceptable levels of emissions reductions & removals calculations according to project type. The full list has been through the highest governance channels, and it is subject to change in a rapidly evolving market. Our principles for nature and climate tech solutions Since establishing our carbon credit program, our policy and approach has been underpinned by a clear set of principles for investing in carbon credits, which are updated here. — Decarbonize first: Rapid and ambitious decarbonization of our own GHG emissions must be at the heart of our climate commitment. — Contribute to ‘global net zero’: We have a responsibility to act beyond the decarbonization of our own operations to address the impacts of the climate crisis today. — Support high‐quality carbon credit projects: We aim to secure carbon credits that are high quality, as defined by recognized independent standards and bodies. In addition, we conduct our own due diligence on projects and have established our own investment criteria dependent on project type (1). — Invest in carbon avoidance and removal projects: Our program will support a mix of projects that both avoid new greenhouse gases entering the atmosphere (e.g., avoided deforestation and improved cookstoves) and projects that remove carbon dioxide (e.g., afforestation). — Seek climate solutions with wider co‐benefits: Nature and climate projects should have wider environmental and social benefits wherever possible. For example, in support of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, co‐benefits can be achieved in relation to biodiversity in the local environment and social and economic benefits to local communities. — Invest in both nature and climate tech solutions: Our initial focus will be on nature‐based solutions because of the ability to make impact at scale in the short‐term and co‐benefits, but we are aware of their limitations. As a technology company, with entrepreneurialism as a key value, we will seek opportunities to support the development of new technologies such as direct air capture and storage which are durable and scalable. — Create a balanced carbon credit portfolio: Our portfolio will be made up of both development projects where we are a significant funder, purchase agreements with existing projects and investing through funds. Our investment projects will deliver our long‐term (up to 30 years+) supply of carbon credits. Support for existing projects and solutions (through offtake or spot credits) will ensure that we contribute to impact today. — Ensure we support projects across countries: We will support projects where possible in countries where Capgemini operates, alongside larger project development opportunities across the planet."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 205 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — Take action at a fair scale: Our levels of investment will be relevant to our carbon emissions. We will scale up investment each year to the point that retired credits are at the same level as our operational emissions by 2025 and from 2030 include our supply chain related emissions. This is as set out in our ESG Policy. — Ensure transparency: Our strategy will be transparent and aligned to best practice. Our nature and climate solutions approach is aligned with multiple third‐party standards or initiatives, including First Movers Coalition (FMC) with our commitment to contract 50,000 tons by 2030 and planting 20 million trees through 1t.org. 6. Collective Action We are committed to working collaboratively to drive action towards a more sustainable future. This starts with our people alongside our global partnerships and clients. Training and upskilling are key enablers in achieving our targets across our Group and value chain. Our Sustainability Campus launched in 2022 is accessible to all our people and centralizes our sustainability learning, including our Global Awareness Module. In 2024, the Group made the module mandatory to all employees. For our collaboration and actions with clients, please see 4.3.4. 7. Global leadership Capgemini is committed to forming global partnerships around climate action and to openly communicating our vocal support for global decarbonization and the role of technology in enabling this. For example, our membership of the LEAF Coalition – a public‐private partnership focused on halting tropical deforestation by 2030 – and the First Movers Coalition on Carbon Removal, which aims to accelerate the adoption of emerging climate technologies. These new commitments build upon several other initiatives we continue to support. such as Race to Zero, RE100 and EV100. For a full list please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” below. 4.3.3.3 Actions contributing to our net zero program a) Energy 1. Sustainable Energy Transition to 100% renewable electricity Through our membership of the RE100, we are committed to supporting the acceleration of renewable electricity, with a target to reach 100% renewable electricity by 2025. We have made strong advances, increasing our share of renewable electricity from 28% in 2019 to 98% in 2024. We have 32 countries now using 100% renewable electricity. Our renewable electricity transition has resulted in a reduction of 137,380 tCO2e since 2019. The transition is being delivered through on‐site solar and power purchase agreements (PPAs) where feasible. Energy attribute certificates are also part of our strategy for sites where energy supplies are controlled by the landlord, or in countries where our consumption is too low for a PPA to be a viable option. Capgemini India, which accounts for more than half of our electricity consumption, continues to be powered by 100% renewable electricity. Over 14,000 MWh was generated by on‐site solar PV in 2024, accounting for 14% of Capgemini India’s total electricity consumption. In addition, our campuses in Bangalore and Hyderabad, as well as both our Chennai offices are generating electricity surpluses, which are being exported to their respective state electricity grids. In 2024, 656 MWh of renewable electricity was exported to the Indian electricity grid from these four sites, powering the equivalent of around 300‐500 Indian households. We continue to focus on ensuring the data centers we use are powered by renewable electricity (including both data centers leased directly by Capgemini and those managed by third‐party suppliers). In 2024, our owned and leased data centers were powered by 100% renewable electricity and third‐party managed data centers by 88% renewable electricity. This year, we also finalized a new global contract to procure Energy Attribute certificates across the Group in line with RE 100 criteria. This will enable more centralized, more efficient management of our renewable energy certificates, as well as ensuring we maintain high quality standards across the Group. 2. Energy Management Energy Command Center Alongside our focus on renewable energy, we are improving the energy efficiency of our operations. The Energy Command Center (ECC) launched in 2022 has helped drive a 29% reduction in energy consumption across our offices in India, with a saving of 25 GWh of electricity in 2024 vs. 2019. A total of 7 facilities across France, Germany, Portugal, Poland and the United Kingdom have been surveyed in 2024 with completed feasibility assessments for ECC implementation. The ECC measures various metrics such as indoor air quality, energy and water intensity, health of critical assets, renewable energy generation, and overall performance across all energy assets. Scalable both geographically and operationally, it will enable us to manage and reduce our energy use across our offices in India and beyond. The Group extended the scope of its Energy Command Center (ECC) in India in partnership with Schneider Electric, from 6 buildings and 8 campuses (operated since 2022) to 23 campuses and more than 66 buildings. In addition, the ECC is now offered as a service, leveraging Capgemini’s and Schneider Electric’s joint expertise in energy optimization to help organizations accelerate their transition towards smarter and more sustainable energy management. We began the implementation of an automated energy data collection and validation tool, integrated with the ECC, to encompass our offices in France, Europe, LatAm, the Americas, and APAC. With India already fully integrated, the system is on track to be implemented and operational by 2025. Battery Energy Storage Solution We continue to make savings from the two state‐of‐the‐art ‘Battery Energy Storage Solutions’ (BESS) installed in our campuses: one with a capacity of 2.5 MWh in the Noida campus and the other a 3.5 MWh capacity in the Mumbai campus. These systems allow Capgemini to store excess renewable energy generated from solar plants during the day and use it during the evening peak hours, significantly reducing pressure on the grid at peak hours, as well as reducing GHG emissions and energy costs. BESS also stores energy from the grid overnight when the carbon intensity is lower. The energy is then discharged during the morning peak when the carbon intensity is higher and there is more pressure on the grid. Across the campuses, 525 Mwh of excess solar energy was stored and used for night operations, saving 376 tCO2e in 2024. These operations are scheduled and monitored by the ECC. Through peak shaving, we used BESS to store 1,417Mwh electricity during non‐peak hours which was then used during peak hours, saving over 27,000 euros and reducing pressure on the electricity grid."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 201 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 3) Expertise Development: Advanced training on specialized topics linked to industry and clients offers such as hydrogen and biodiversity, food waste and biodiversity. To deepen expertise, we also launched extended programs in collaboration with leading universities such as the University of Exeter (UK), Stanford University (US), and ESSEC (France), providing participants with certification upon completion. In 2025, we plan to integrate sustainability‐related questions into our monthly global employee pulse surveys to gauge understanding and sentiment, ensuring we continue to refine our approach and foster meaningful engagement. L – Business travel During this initial phase of our climate transition plan, our first focus in 2021 was on re‐envisioning our Group Travel Policy to ensure sustainability was fully embedded, with clear guidelines around how sustainable choices should be prioritized. The policy has been strengthened further since, with a requirement that employees take the train instead of traveling by plane for all journeys that can be reached by rail in less than three hours. The policy also encourages rail travel for journeys of four hours or less. Annual travel targets are cascaded to each country by our Net Zero Board, and we monitor progress monthly through carbon dashboards, enabling us to pinpoint unexpected trends and alert key stakeholders quickly. Over the last two years, we have launched and developed a new set of travel dashboards across our global sustainability network, enabling the better tracking of travel emissions and more granular analysis of air travel in particular. These dashboards provide faster access to information about the progress of each country against our targets, as well as enabling tracking across different business units and different travel modes. They also provide very detailed insights such as the most frequent flight routes for different employee grades. To ensure locally relevant plans are in place to address business travel, we will continue cascading travel targets to each country and working with country sustainability teams to ensure action plans are in place these at a country level. Alongside this, we have reviewed and enhanced best practice guidelines for Group events, including policies on travel modes, to ensure alignment with our sustainability objectives. In 2025, we will publish comprehensive guidance to support the decarbonization of our annual events. Additionally, we will focus on enhancing our management information dashboards and carbon accounting processes to provide accurate, up‐to‐date insights that empower the business to make informed and efficient travel decisions. As part of our continuous sourcing strategy, we are also assessing the viability of leveraging sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) to support reductions in air travel emissions. 3. Our governance Our Net Zero Board provides executive level governance for our environmental sustainability program and our climate transition pathway with responsibility for monitoring climate risks and reviewing, debating, and approving the climate transition plan, as well as other sustainability plans, policies and practices for the Group. Our net zero program and our climate transition pathway are underpinned by two key management systems: our global Environmental Management System and our carbon accounting system. Please refer to Section 4.3.2 “Our governance dedicated to climate change” for more information on Governance. e) Nature and climate solutions Achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts. The voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. Carbon removal credits can also play a valuable role when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to help mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated. Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our own business, we recognize this will take time and are therefore also investing in at scale nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere now. Please refer to the Section related to Nature and Climate Solutions of Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” for more information. f) Engagement strategy Working with others across is essential to achieving an economy‐wide transition. Addressing the systemic issue of climate change requires collective action and collaboration beyond our own value chain. Please refer to Sections 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” and 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives” for more information on how we are committed to adding our voice together with other businesses from our sector and beyond, to amplify our messages, create momentum and exert pressure to accelerate action on topics where it is urgently needed. Our ability to deliver our climate transition plan will rely on sufficient investment, resources and collective action from across the whole Capgemini Group as described in this Section 4.3.3. In particular, committed investments for the period 2025 to 2027 should amount to around 16 million euros of Capex and Opex. The most significant investment planned is in India, where the majority of our employees are based and there is a very strong focus on energy efficiency in buildings, renewable energy generation and transportation initiatives. There are examples of important investments given throughout this Section 4.3.3, whilst in Section 4.6 we provide further details of capex eligible and aligned to EU Taxonomy. Committed investments have been assessed using the impairment test process implemented for the consolidated financial statements to ensure connectivity of information. Given the nature of our business, it is likely that additional investments will be decided in the coming years as we progress in the transition plan. 4.3.3.2 Policy contributing to our net zero program a) Environmental Policy 2024 Through our Environmental Policy, we have made a global commitment to continually improving our environmental performance against our Group objectives and targets (science‐ based targets where feasible) and to working with our clients to help them reduce their environmental impacts. We are also committed to train our employees on the impacts of their work on the environment and regularly consult with key stakeholders on environmental issues, ensuring our environmental program is responsive to their feedback."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 202 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) Our Group Environmental Policy is supported by targeted sub‐policies and strategies specific to each element of our 10‐point plan Our 10-point plan Col la bor ati ve gl oba l f ra me wo rk Ca rb on im pa ct s Be yo nd car bon sol uti on s Na tur e & cl im ate Bi od iv ers it y Wa te r Wa st e & ci rc ula r ec on o my Su st ain ab le IT Tr av el & sm ar t d eli ve ry En er gy Gl ob al le ad er shi p Co lle cti ve ac tio n cli ma te so lu ti on s Na tu re & Su pp ly ch ain Please see Section 4.3.2 “Our governance dedicated to climate change” for full description of the governance process around our environmental policies and strategy, including our climate policies and strategy. Ultimate accountability for the implementation of our Group Environment Policy sits with our Group CEO. Multiple stakeholders and committees are considered in the formulation and setting of environmental policies and strategies, particularly representatives from key internal functions (Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT, HR and Sustainability) as well as the Country Sustainability leads for larger Capgemini entities. The sub‐policies and strategies that underpin our Group Environment Policy are typically formulated at a function level and then debated and discussed both by the Cross-Function Committee and the Net Zero Board, with more significant decisions going to the CEO for final approval. The Group Environmental Policy is published on our website for external stakeholders, as well as being made available internally on noticeboards. 1. Energy Our focus is on ensuring our buildings are the most sustainable, operating them with optimum efficiency, and rapidly transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025. We support reducing energy consumption where practical and cost‐effective across all sites from which Capgemini operate, whilst maintaining a comfortable and productive working environment. Through the implementation of our Energy policy, we cover ISO 50001 across seven countries, as well as our continued commitment to RE100. Our buildings also meet LEED, IGBC and BREEAM certifications (please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” below for more information). Looking ahead, our strategy prioritizes achieving the highest sustainability standards for our buildings, optimizing operational efficiency, and completing the transition to 100% renewable electricity."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 203 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2. Sustainable IT Covering our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, we ensure the implementation of sustainable IT practices across our operations and value chain is critical in contributing to improving our energy intensity and progressing our net zero transition. Our sustainable IT transformation roadmap focuses on four key areas: 1) Reducing IT energy consumption: Reducing IT energy consumption and thereby lowering the use‐phase emissions from IT equipment energy usage; 2) Reducing embedded carbon footprint and adopting circularity: Reducing the embedded carbon footprint of purchased IT equipment and services, and progressively adopting circularity practices (including extending usable life of IT equipment and minimizing e‐waste); 3) Investing into sustainable IT tools and talent: Investing in sustainable IT tools and talent for monitoring, governance, and reduction of our footprint; and 4) Enabling digital collaboration: Enabling enterprise‐wide sustainable digital collaboration tools usage to support lower carbon delivery (hybrid working) models. Data Centers In our own captive data centers, we utilize energy‐efficient equipment to power the IT loads and efficient air conditioners for cooling. We monitor Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) and source our electricity from renewable sources (with 100% of electricity used at owned and leased data centers from renewable sources in 2024). We manage PUE through smart containment technology, using rack‐wise sensors controlled by an AI-powered engine. This system modulates the air conditioners and active floor tiles to optimize both cooling equipment and airflow, resulting in improved PUE across our data centers. All of this is centrally managed, monitored, and controlled via our Energy Command Center (ECC). Working with Group Procurement and our cloud infrastructure teams, where feasible we also monitor the energy consumption, PUE, water usage and carbon emissions associated with Third Party Managed Data Centers. AI and Cloud Services In terms of the growing presence of AI, our research shows that more than three‐quarters of organizations are conscious of environmental concerns around Gen AI (1). We recognize the need to weigh the immense potential of Gen AI against its cost to the planet and society. We are committed to taking a “sustainable by design” approach to developing Gen AI solutions that harness cutting‐edge data, AI, and climate tech to maximize business outcomes in a sustainable manner. Mitigation strategies include optimizing the amount of data required to train the models, working on smaller, task‐specific energy‐efficient models that employ more efficient training and operating algorithms, and powering the AI infrastructure with renewable energy as well as using more energy‐efficient data centers. We are starting to monitor energy consumption and carbon emissions associated with AI models to help promote transparency (1) Capgemini 2024, Gener(AI) ting the Future, Conversation for Tomorrow. around AI developments. Our Gen AI lifecycle analysis tools help organizations to mitigate environmental impact. Our Group IT team also has an internal policy in place to ensure that AI is not deployed without qualified use cases. These use cases are reviewed and approved by Group IT management after thorough evaluation. Recognizing the growth in this area, we are currently setting up a dedicated GenAI Board to approve use cases in the future. We also have a cloud‐first policy for building and operating IT solutions and services. Our employees are also provided with mandatory training around Generative AI, including on its sustainable and responsible use. For public cloud services, we engage leading hyper‐scalers providers that are leaders in sustainability practices. 3. Travel & Smart Delivery As a global business with over 340,000 people across more than 50 countries, travel remains a significant contributor to our carbon emissions. Our travel and smart delivery strategy comprises of three key parts: 1) Reduce business travel emissions through our low carbon digital delivery model: Our Group Travel Policy provides clear guidelines to ensure sustainable choices are prioritized. Last year, we strengthened this policy, with a requirement that employees take the train instead of traveling by plane for all journeys that can be reached by rail in less than three hours. The policy also encourages rail travel for journeys of four hours or less; 2) Transition to an electric vehicle fleet: Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow the ordering of pure petrol and diesel cars, and at the beginning of 2023, we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new car orders, which prevents the ordering of mild hybrids; 3) Reduce the impacts of employee commuting: we enable our employees to work effectively and more sustainably remotely, as well as offer several mobility support options for commuters. These range from company‐provided shuttle buses and free EV charging across some sites to heavily subsidized public transport and assistance for bike and e‐bike purchases in select countries. In some countries, we provide energy efficiency advice and support for employees working remotely, such as home energy assessments and interest‐free loans for energy‐saving improvements. Our Group Travel Policy will be reviewed in 2025 as part of a continued annual review process consulting all central functions with sustainability as an integral pillar to its development. 4. Supply Chain We have procurement processes that encourage our suppliers and business partners to provide products and services that align with our Group environmental objectives. Our ESG Pledge is now a part of our sustainable procurement engagement process with suppliers. Working with our major suppliers and partners on the pledge will support our journey to net zero."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 204 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Our strategy covers the following key areas: — engaging with our suppliers and supporting them in their net zero journeys; — setting minimum standards that our suppliers are required to follow, as well as enhanced expectations for key suppliers; — identifying high emission categories, and defining actions and strategies to reduce emissions; — incorporating sustainability into supplier selection processes, ensuring carbon impacts are visible alongside costs during decision making; and — underpinned by robust processes and systems to measure and monitor supplier emissions and emerging climate risks, with continual focus on improving data quality. Our approach to a sustainable supply chain is reflected in our commitment to reducing our absolute purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030, validated by the SBTi. Capgemini also has CDP supply chain membership to engage our suppliers, help identify climate risks and opportunities and to more accurately calculate emissions associated with our purchases. 5. Nature and Climate Solutions Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our business, with a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we are also investing in nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere today. Acting to address global net zero Currently achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts, and the voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. We know that carbon removal credits can be used when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated. However, we also believe that long‐term corporate objectives are not sufficiently addressing the high concentration levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases already in, and continuing to enter, the atmosphere today. These greenhouse gases are central to driving the current climate crisis. For these reasons, in addition to reducing our emissions as set out in our carbon reduction targets, we will retire carbon credits on a ton‐for‐ton basis against the residual carbon emissions, associated with our direct operations from 2025 and against the residual emissions including our supply chain from 2030. We recognize that questions over the integrity of carbon credits remain. We believe it is essential to align on the standards about how to best invest in carbon removals and abatement through nature and climate solutions. We welcome the ongoing work of organizations such as the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative (VCMI) and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (IC-VCM) to bring greater integrity to the supply and use of carbon credits and helping to close the loop on unsubstantiated carbon related claims. We will continue to review the developing guidelines and legislation. (1) We have excluded certain project types from our program. Most of the projects and credits available to date do not pass our assessment criteria, which includes, but is not limited to, additionality, permanence, leakage, integration with Indigenous Peoples and local communities, biodiversity, social and economic co‐benefits and contribution to systemic change. In addition, we have defined acceptable levels of emissions reductions & removals calculations according to project type. The full list has been through the highest governance channels, and it is subject to change in a rapidly evolving market. Our principles for nature and climate tech solutions Since establishing our carbon credit program, our policy and approach has been underpinned by a clear set of principles for investing in carbon credits, which are updated here. — Decarbonize first: Rapid and ambitious decarbonization of our own GHG emissions must be at the heart of our climate commitment. — Contribute to ‘global net zero’: We have a responsibility to act beyond the decarbonization of our own operations to address the impacts of the climate crisis today. — Support high‐quality carbon credit projects: We aim to secure carbon credits that are high quality, as defined by recognized independent standards and bodies. In addition, we conduct our own due diligence on projects and have established our own investment criteria dependent on project type (1). — Invest in carbon avoidance and removal projects: Our program will support a mix of projects that both avoid new greenhouse gases entering the atmosphere (e.g., avoided deforestation and improved cookstoves) and projects that remove carbon dioxide (e.g., afforestation). — Seek climate solutions with wider co‐benefits: Nature and climate projects should have wider environmental and social benefits wherever possible. For example, in support of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, co‐benefits can be achieved in relation to biodiversity in the local environment and social and economic benefits to local communities. — Invest in both nature and climate tech solutions: Our initial focus will be on nature‐based solutions because of the ability to make impact at scale in the short‐term and co‐benefits, but we are aware of their limitations. As a technology company, with entrepreneurialism as a key value, we will seek opportunities to support the development of new technologies such as direct air capture and storage which are durable and scalable. — Create a balanced carbon credit portfolio: Our portfolio will be made up of both development projects where we are a significant funder, purchase agreements with existing projects and investing through funds. Our investment projects will deliver our long‐term (up to 30 years+) supply of carbon credits. Support for existing projects and solutions (through offtake or spot credits) will ensure that we contribute to impact today. — Ensure we support projects across countries: We will support projects where possible in countries where Capgemini operates, alongside larger project development opportunities across the planet."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 205 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — Take action at a fair scale: Our levels of investment will be relevant to our carbon emissions. We will scale up investment each year to the point that retired credits are at the same level as our operational emissions by 2025 and from 2030 include our supply chain related emissions. This is as set out in our ESG Policy. — Ensure transparency: Our strategy will be transparent and aligned to best practice. Our nature and climate solutions approach is aligned with multiple third‐party standards or initiatives, including First Movers Coalition (FMC) with our commitment to contract 50,000 tons by 2030 and planting 20 million trees through 1t.org. 6. Collective Action We are committed to working collaboratively to drive action towards a more sustainable future. This starts with our people alongside our global partnerships and clients. Training and upskilling are key enablers in achieving our targets across our Group and value chain. Our Sustainability Campus launched in 2022 is accessible to all our people and centralizes our sustainability learning, including our Global Awareness Module. In 2024, the Group made the module mandatory to all employees. For our collaboration and actions with clients, please see 4.3.4. 7. Global leadership Capgemini is committed to forming global partnerships around climate action and to openly communicating our vocal support for global decarbonization and the role of technology in enabling this. For example, our membership of the LEAF Coalition – a public‐private partnership focused on halting tropical deforestation by 2030 – and the First Movers Coalition on Carbon Removal, which aims to accelerate the adoption of emerging climate technologies. These new commitments build upon several other initiatives we continue to support. such as Race to Zero, RE100 and EV100. For a full list please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” below. 4.3.3.3 Actions contributing to our net zero program a) Energy 1. Sustainable Energy Transition to 100% renewable electricity Through our membership of the RE100, we are committed to supporting the acceleration of renewable electricity, with a target to reach 100% renewable electricity by 2025. We have made strong advances, increasing our share of renewable electricity from 28% in 2019 to 98% in 2024. We have 32 countries now using 100% renewable electricity. Our renewable electricity transition has resulted in a reduction of 137,380 tCO2e since 2019. The transition is being delivered through on‐site solar and power purchase agreements (PPAs) where feasible. Energy attribute certificates are also part of our strategy for sites where energy supplies are controlled by the landlord, or in countries where our consumption is too low for a PPA to be a viable option. Capgemini India, which accounts for more than half of our electricity consumption, continues to be powered by 100% renewable electricity. Over 14,000 MWh was generated by on‐site solar PV in 2024, accounting for 14% of Capgemini India’s total electricity consumption. In addition, our campuses in Bangalore and Hyderabad, as well as both our Chennai offices are generating electricity surpluses, which are being exported to their respective state electricity grids. In 2024, 656 MWh of renewable electricity was exported to the Indian electricity grid from these four sites, powering the equivalent of around 300‐500 Indian households. We continue to focus on ensuring the data centers we use are powered by renewable electricity (including both data centers leased directly by Capgemini and those managed by third‐party suppliers). In 2024, our owned and leased data centers were powered by 100% renewable electricity and third‐party managed data centers by 88% renewable electricity. This year, we also finalized a new global contract to procure Energy Attribute certificates across the Group in line with RE 100 criteria. This will enable more centralized, more efficient management of our renewable energy certificates, as well as ensuring we maintain high quality standards across the Group. 2. Energy Management Energy Command Center Alongside our focus on renewable energy, we are improving the energy efficiency of our operations. The Energy Command Center (ECC) launched in 2022 has helped drive a 29% reduction in energy consumption across our offices in India, with a saving of 25 GWh of electricity in 2024 vs. 2019. A total of 7 facilities across France, Germany, Portugal, Poland and the United Kingdom have been surveyed in 2024 with completed feasibility assessments for ECC implementation. The ECC measures various metrics such as indoor air quality, energy and water intensity, health of critical assets, renewable energy generation, and overall performance across all energy assets. Scalable both geographically and operationally, it will enable us to manage and reduce our energy use across our offices in India and beyond. The Group extended the scope of its Energy Command Center (ECC) in India in partnership with Schneider Electric, from 6 buildings and 8 campuses (operated since 2022) to 23 campuses and more than 66 buildings. In addition, the ECC is now offered as a service, leveraging Capgemini’s and Schneider Electric’s joint expertise in energy optimization to help organizations accelerate their transition towards smarter and more sustainable energy management. We began the implementation of an automated energy data collection and validation tool, integrated with the ECC, to encompass our offices in France, Europe, LatAm, the Americas, and APAC. With India already fully integrated, the system is on track to be implemented and operational by 2025. Battery Energy Storage Solution We continue to make savings from the two state‐of‐the‐art ‘Battery Energy Storage Solutions’ (BESS) installed in our campuses: one with a capacity of 2.5 MWh in the Noida campus and the other a 3.5 MWh capacity in the Mumbai campus. These systems allow Capgemini to store excess renewable energy generated from solar plants during the day and use it during the evening peak hours, significantly reducing pressure on the grid at peak hours, as well as reducing GHG emissions and energy costs. BESS also stores energy from the grid overnight when the carbon intensity is lower. The energy is then discharged during the morning peak when the carbon intensity is higher and there is more pressure on the grid. Across the campuses, 525 Mwh of excess solar energy was stored and used for night operations, saving 376 tCO2e in 2024. These operations are scheduled and monitored by the ECC. Through peak shaving, we used BESS to store 1,417Mwh electricity during non‐peak hours which was then used during peak hours, saving over 27,000 euros and reducing pressure on the electricity grid."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 206 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Sustainability performance of our offices and data centers Creating sustainable and energy efficient workplaces starts with strong environmental design. Many of our flagship buildings located in India, France, Germany, Poland, Spain, and Sweden are certified under LEED, IGBC, BREEAM or equivalent green building accreditations. Capgemini’s Bangalore, Pune Hnjewadi, Talawade and Mumbai Airoli campuses in India have been awarded the Net Zero-Energy Platinum Certification by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) in recognition of their strong energy performance and use of 100% renewable electricity. The campuses showcase innovative sustainability features including an energy efficient HVAC system with district cooling, solar arrays, rainwater harvesting, electric vehicle charge points and solar‐powered streetlights. Additionally, we have installed a dual feeder electricity supply, which provides a secondary connection from the state utility and therefore reduces our use of diesel generators if one supply experiences an outage. The IGBC “Performance Challenge Award” for continuous improvement was also given to our campuses in Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Noida and Pune Talwade and Hinjewadi campuses, with Capgemini’s Bangalore campus being recognized as one of 100 Iconic Sustainable Buildings by the G20 India Presidency. 3. Green Leases Our green lease framework enables us to apply sustainability criteria when initiating new leases or renewing leases in strategic locations. It covers topics including renewable energy, energy efficiency, EV charging points, and proximity to public transport. In 2024, we updated our Green Lease Framework, transitioning our approach from specific clauses to broader Green Lease Intents. This shift reflects our recognition that clauses often impose one party’s criteria on the other, while intents foster continued collaboration. The aim is a mutually beneficial agreement, with both parties—Capgemini and the asset manager, landlord, broker, or other stakeholders—committing to close collaboration for sustainable outcomes. Our framework includes 16 intents across six key categories: governance, energy & climate, other environmental impact, capital improvements, certifications, and diversity, equity & inclusion. Of these, 12 intents are mandatory for a lease to qualify as a Green Lease. If the mandatory intents are not met, the lease is not considered a Capgemini Green Lease, though we collaborate with landlords to help them achieve full coverage. These intents are closely aligned with our transition roadmap, environmental policy, and Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi), ensuring our lease contracts reflect our sustainability commitments. Roles for implementing these intents are clearly defined as part of the lease, enabling both landlords and tenants to track progress effectively at the site level. The primary goal of this new framework is to streamline collaboration and drive continuous improvement. To further support this, in 2024, we expanded our CRES training toolbox, including green lease training to all relevant employees and third‐parties, working in partnership with one of our global brokers to deliver this program. b) Sustainable IT 1. IT energy consumption We continue to monitor and optimize energy of our laptops through our energy management software. The software enables optimized configuration management, which ensures both proactive maintenance and efficiency. As part of ongoing IT infrastructure optimization, we have achieved a 10% reduction in the amount of IT equipment (including servers, networking, communication, laptops, phones and other endpoint equipment) needed in 2024 (against 2023) through the decommissioning of equipment. We have also replaced hardware‐based phones with a software‐based communication solutions, enabling us to decommission over 75,000 phones since 2021. Additionally, we continue to transform our enterprise application portfolio by investing into more modern technologies such as cloud and SaaS platforms. As an outcome of this modernization and rationalization, legacy applications are being retired from the portfolio, reducing the underlying infrastructure footprint, with 16 apps decommissioned in 2024. We continue to consolidate and modernize our data center environments using private cloud platforms and we are increasing our adoption of public cloud services, which typically have lower energy consumption and carbon emissions. 2. IT embedded carbon footprint During 2024, we scaled up our global laptop maintenance and refurbishment program, continuing to work closely with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to extend the functional lifespan of our devices. By keeping laptops in use longer, we reduce our IT carbon footprint and ease the global demand on raw material extraction required for manufacturing new devices (for more on our circularity principles relating to IT hardware see 4.4.2.2). In 2024, around 7,000 laptops were refurbished successfully across the Group, with plans to scale this approach over the next few years. This has led to an estimated saving in Scope 3.1 emissions of 1,000 tonnes of CO2e, through avoiding the purchase of new laptops. Our digital experience tool, a software for endpoint devices that allows optimized configuration management, has enabled us to anticipate laptop failures and proactively address potential issues. We have replaced approximately 28,000 end‐of‐usable‐life desktops and monitors with laptops over the last two years (from 2021 to 2023) and reduced the number of operational desktops by approximately 3,000 in 2024. 3. Sustainable IT tools and talent To support our sustainable-IT transformation journey, we have launched several talent engagement initiatives. Building on our previous initiatives of engaging employees through a series of on‐site gamified interaction events on sustainable-IT topics to raise awareness and encourage sustainable behaviors, we rolled out our sustainable-IT quiz in 2024 with over 600 participants. We also continue to enable Group IT employees to upskill through the development of sustainability learning pathways. For promoting awareness on sustainable-IT topics, in 2024 knowledge posts were published to Group IT employees on our community portal, which are viewed by more than 35% Group IT employees on an average. In 2023, Group IT organized a Sustainable-IT-by‐design masterclass to promote adoption of eco‐design best practices into IT projects and initiatives. We have previously launched our annual data clean‐up campaign to promote sustainable digital usage behavior and knowledge among employees across the Group. In 2024, we also developed our sustainable-IT operations KPI dashboard to better monitor performance of initiatives across practices."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 207 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4. Enabling digital collaboration We have continued to extend investments to support a hybrid work culture, upgrading office spaces with AV technologies. This enables employees to connect and collaborate globally and contribute to a reduction in our commuting related footprint. During 2024, we upgraded 808 enhanced and premium meeting rooms with wireless presentation systems, improving the meeting room experience for employees, clients and suppliers. This includes the revamp of 282 enhanced meeting rooms with new, energy‐efficient AV equipment. Additionally, 413 standard meeting rooms were upgraded to support video, enhancing hybrid work environments. We also upgraded to the latest Microsoft Teams app, decom­ missioning legacy Skype and Teams apps and moving all employees globally to the same communication app. Our future actions will focus on building upon and advancing the four main thematic initiatives outlined above. This includes: — continuing to progress on our five‐year road map to rationalize our application landscape and ensure legacy applications are decommissioned, thereby reducing our energy consumption and carbon emissions; — continuing to transition from on‐premises to move to energy efficient cloud‐based infrastructure, delivering energy savings and carbon emission reductions; — continuing to work with original equipment manufacturers and their value chain on the repair and refurbishment of laptops, reducing our Scope 3.1 emissions from hardware. c) Travel & Smart Delivery 1. Business Travel We have started to see business travel emissions reduce once again (down 3.6% per employee vs. 2023). Overall, our overall business travel emissions are 51% lower than they were in 2019, resulting in an absolute reduction of 173,547 tCO2e since then. This reflects the enduring shift to hybrid working and virtual collaboration with clients, following the Covid pandemic. During 2024, we continued to invest in IT solutions and equipment to support hybrid working and virtual collaboration, enabling our people to work from anywhere at any time. In 2024, we developed our travel dashboards across our global sustainability network, enabling the better tracking of travel emissions and more granular analysis of air travel in particular. These dashboards provide faster access to information about the progress of each country against our targets, as well as enabling tracking across different business units and different travel modes. They also provide very detailed insights such as the most frequent flight routes for different employee grades. 2. Transitioning to an electric vehicle fleet Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow employees to order pure petrol and diesel cars, and last year we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new hybrid car orders. Capgemini has committed to transitioning its entire 12,000‐vehicle fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles by 2030, with Belgium for example already ordering a fully electric fleet. In 2024, the share of pure EVs was 26% and 71% when including plug‐in hybrids. We have over 2,600 electric vehicle (EV) charge points in place around the Group, providing our employees with charging for their vehicles. Our next step, from 2025, will be to phase out plug‐in hybrid vehicles, where practical. 3. Reducing the impacts of employee commuting In 2024, we conducted our sixth global commuting survey to understand our employees’ commuting habits, as well as the impacts of home working, including the emissions associated with heating, cooling, and powering IT equipment. In total, we had 81,000 people (a quarter of our workforce) respond to our employee commuting survey in 2024. The results have shown an 10% increase in commuting emissions per employee since 2023 due to continued return to working from the office following the Covid pandemic. Overall, though, the shift to hybrid working continues to hold emissions at below pre‐pandemic levels, with commuting emissions per employee down by 49% vs. 2019 (or by 36% vs. 2019 when the impact of working from home is included). In 2024, we have reduced our employee commuting emissions (including working from home) by 60,084 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019. We will continue to conduct our annual commuting survey to build a comprehensive picture on how our people commute and work from home. This will enable us to continue to build our knowledge and define policies that will keep us on track to our targets. Key actions to support employees to tackle commuting and work from home impacts: — Mobility packages – There are a range of country‐specific mobility packages available to employees. These include very comprehensive mobility arrangements in Germany and Netherlands, which enable employees to use public transport even for their private travel, as well as subsidized or heavily discounted public transport in Italy, Spain and France; — Bicycles and e‐bicycles – Across France, Germany, Netherlands, Portugal and the United Kingdom, a range of support measures are in place to encourage uptake of bikes and e‐bikes, including financial help with buying or loaning a bike (UK, Netherlands, France and Portugal). In Germany, cycling clubs are offered, as well as cycle workshops to provide assistance with repairs. We currently offer bike leasing through localized approaches. Moving forward, we plan to review the program with a more holistic and global perspective, aligning it with employee preferences and ensuring it remains accessible and effective across all regions; and — Home Energy – In the United Kingdom, a series of webinars were held in partnership with the Big Clean Switch to advise employees on improving energy efficiency at home, with around 4,000 of our people attending. Employees are also supported through the provision of access to home energy assessments, to help them identify how they can improve the energy efficiency of their home. We also offer interest‐free loans for employees who would like to move forward with the recommendations from these assessments;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 208 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — Buses – We provide company bus services across all our major sites in India, as well as our offices in Spain (Madrid) and Italy (Rome). In India, we plan to transition to buses powered by bio‐compressed natural gas to reduce our commuting emissions; and — Car share – Across several regions we are planning, or already have in place, ride sharing and carpooling initiatives to reduce emissions. d) Supply Chain 1. Engaging with our suppliers Working with our suppliers is pivotal in advancing our environmental strategy. Supplier engagement continued in 2024 with our supplier day and CPO roundtable events providing platforms for discussing target setting, emissions data capture and low‐carbon pathways. We continue to be recognized by CDP for our efforts to engage with our suppliers on the topic of climate change, achieving a place on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard. In 2025, we intend to collaborate and support suppliers even further by creating training material aligned with the contents of the ESG Pledge and sustainable procurement Policy. This will allow suppliers to improve their knowledge base and have access to tools that will enable them to improve their actions no matter where they are on their own environmental journey. We have also started to integrate environmental criteria into our supplier selection for our main categories (IT Hardware, IT Network and Facility Management). In 2025, we are planning to continue this roll‐out as well as produce material for our suppliers, including basic starter knowledge as well as concrete uses cases to reduce carbon emissions. 2. ESG Pledge In 2024, we continued to roll out our Supply Chain ESG Pledge launched last year, aiming to build strong supplier engagement towards supporting the achievement of Capgemini’s carbon reduction goals. The ESG Pledge requires suppliers to disclose their annual GHG emissions, set science‐based targets validated by SBTi, and share their climate transition and low‐carbon product strategies. By the end of 2024, suppliers representing 35% of our total spend had agreed to commit to the ESG Pledge or are aligned to its principles. Any other actions taken or planned by suppliers are encouraged and can be formalized as voluntary contributions to be committed to within the pledge. Going forward, we plan to make our ESG Pledge more inclusive by extending beyond carbon to encompass critical areas, such as biodiversity, water‐related topics, and addressing broader nature‐focused concerns. This pledge will also integrate wider sustainability objectives and social aspects, fostering a more comprehensive approach to environmental, social, and governance priorities. 3. CDP supply chain membership Our CDP supply chain membership helps us to support our suppliers in calculating their emissions and advancing their climate change understanding. This collaboration has improved the accuracy of our Scope 3 data but also enhanced our insight into the challenges and progress of our suppliers towards net zero. In 2024, the 184 suppliers who responded to our CDP request demonstrated they had already made progress in tackling climate change; around 49% have set science‐based targets, with 56% having a climate transition plan aligned with 1.5C. 4. Embedding sustainability training To ensure a cohesive approach to our net zero goal, it is essential to raise awareness among employees about the environmental implications of their procurement decisions. In 2024, we continued to provide sustainability and carbon accounting training to targeted procurement teams in high emission purchasing categories. We have also redeveloped the set of training available to procurement professionals. This training embeds fundamental knowledge on ESG challenges and concrete actions, as well as best practices that can be deployed with suppliers for carbon emissions reductions. 5. Supplier assessment via an ESG assessment tool and during procurement sourcing process: Capgemini is currently deploying a dedicated ESG assessment platform, which will be fully operational in 2025 (see Section 4.11.7 for more details). This will enable Group Procurement to assess suppliers’ maturity on a range of environmental topics and identify risks within our supply chain. Following risk identification, Capgemini can discuss action plans with suppliers to improve their compliance and business resilience. The four main environmental risk areas categorized within our supplier assessment are pollution, waste, substances of concern and GHG emissions. In 2025, we will also continue refining and adapting our procurement processes to make sure environmental criteria are fully embedded and taking a bigger weight into our sourcing processes. Our future actions will focus on building upon and advancing the five main thematic initiatives outlined above. Beyond the Procurement‐specific pillars above, our Group Procurement team is actively collaborating with Group IT and Group CRES teams on key cross‐functional initiatives. Together, they are delivering an IT refurbishment program aimed at extending the lifespan of current laptops, thereby reducing the need for new purchases and promoting sustainable technology practices. Additionally, the teams are driving circularity in office furniture by identifying opportunities to procure refurbished items or refurbish existing furniture, reinforcing a commitment to sustainable resource use wherever possible (please refer to Section 4.4.2.2 “Actions and initiatives on key purchasing categories” for more details). Group Procurement will also work cross‐functionally with Group IT to enhance supplier engagement and demand management around cloud services. e) Nature and Climate Solutions 1. Collaborating with others for greater impact We are committed to working with others to drive growth in the development of nature and climate tech solutions. We are members of the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance (LEAF) Coalition, a public‐private partnership with the goal to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state) and last year we were one of the first buyers of high integrity forest carbon credits, in a national deal with Ghana and with the State of Para in Brazil. We have also invested in funds including the Mirova Climate Fund for Nature. This fund launched in 2023 with a number of corporate members and currently exceeds €195m euros. It is expected to grow and is targeting projects dedicated to protecting and restoring nature in emerging markets, as well as supporting farmers in their transition to regenerative agriculture."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 209 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 In 2023, we joined the First Movers Coalition for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030. To date we have contracted 39,500 tons to be delivered over the coming years from the following suppliers: Neustark – 10,000 tons Neustark is a Switzerland‐based specialist leader of high‐quality durable carbon removals, which Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to remove 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide. Neustark’s innovative technology and business model captures CO2 from biomass sites, liquefies it, then injects it into existing mineral waste streams such as demolished materials to be recycled and used in construction. This utilizes a process of mineralization that stores the CO2 in the aggregate, permanently removing it from the atmosphere. Neustark’s projects are currently certified under the Gold Standard to ensure credible third‐party assessment and transparency related to performance. Building on its existing 19 sites in Europe, the business plans to bring online approximately 40 additional sites throughout 2025 in the region. Neustark is scaling up rapidly, on track towards its ambition of permanently removing one million tons of CO2 in 2030. Charm Industrial – 16,500 tons Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement with Charm Industrial, based in the US, to permanently remove 16,500 tons of carbon dioxide. Charm Industrial converts biomass residues after harvest (for example, corn stover, forestry residues) into bio‐oil by heating the biomass quickly to very high temperatures. Charm uses woody or cellulosic residues in their pyrolysis and ensures that any emissions associated with growth or harvesting of this biomass are accounted for. This means waste biomass that would have otherwise decomposed is a preferred feedstock. The resulting bio‐oil is low in energy content, but high in carbon content, and can be transported and injected underground into geological storage reservoirs such as depleted oil & gas reservoirs, saline aquifers and salt caverns regulated by the US EPA. It is a highly viscous liquid which is denser than the surrounding formation fluid, and so will sink in the reservoir and risk of buoyancy/upward migration is low. The bio‐oil polymerizes (solidifies) on an expected timescale between 2–20 years, rendering it effectively immobile within the subsurface and therefore durable on geological timescales. This removes CO2 permanently from the atmosphere, out of reach of wildfires, soil erosion and land use change. Climeworks – 13,000 tons Climeworks is a global leader in carbon removal and Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to permanently remove 13,000 tons of carbon dioxide through their direct air capture technology. Direct air capture (DAC) is a technology that captures CO2 directly from the air. Unlike traditional carbon capture methods focused on industrial emissions at the source, DAC offers a versatile solution for carbon removal by capturing CO2 from the air which is then combined with permanent underground storage. Climeworks already operates two Direct Air Capture plants in Iceland and delivers third‐party certified carbon removal services to its customers. In the USA, Climeworks announced three projects as part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Regional DAC Hubs program kickstarting the first hub, Project Cypress. Other promising locations are Canada, Norway, and Kenya. 2. Mitigating emissions beyond our value chain Since 2019, we have reduced our operational emissions by 47%. Alongside this decarbonization, we have continued to scale up our climate contribution. Carbon credit projects In 2024, we retired 314,312 carbon credits from 11 projects, which equates to 72% of our remaining operational emissions. Details of credits retired can be found in Section 4.3.3.5 “Metrics related to our net zero program” below. Together with our suppliers, we perform due diligence on each carbon credit project from which we have retired credits. Since the release of the IC-VCMs Core Carbon Principles (CCP), we have been aligning our evaluation framework to ensure overlap with all ten principles. This includes considering governance of the carbon credit standards to ensure it is effective, operates a registry where credits can be tracked and where information on projects is transparent, and validation and verification is undertaken by independent third-parties. All the carbon credits retired come from CCP eligible programs (VCS, Gold Standard and CAR). At a project level we evaluate additionally, permanence, quantification, ensure no double counting and look for projects that contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, have appropriate safeguarding mechanisms and contribute to the net zero transition. The voluntary carbon market has been and should continue to be in a state of renewal, learning and improving the robustness of processes, assessment and quantification. Our due diligence process does not imply credits retired will receive a CCP label from IC-VCM given how methodologies and the market have had to evolve, but they represent credits from projects that passed our interpretation of these principles at the time of purchase. Going forward our due diligence process will continue to evolve for new investments and purchases to evaluate using best practice in line with our values and principles. As requirements and standards continue to evolve, we will always endeavor to ensure we are following the latest guidelines. There will however always be a lag between commitments made to pre-existing projects, the speed which projects can adapt to methodological changes, new purchases and investments and credits we have available to retire. All credits, if applicable, may be counted towards the host countries achievement of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement. 1 trillion trees campaign (1t.org) Capgemini is part of the World Economic Forum (WEF) 1 trillion trees campaign to conserve, restore, and grow one trillion trees around the world by 2030. We have committed to planting 20 million trees by 2030 and as of the end of 2024 we had planted around 17 million trees. Whilst the majority of this progress is being made through our carbon credit program, we have also established other tree planting initiatives including the Capgemini Forest. Through our partner Ecologi, a B-Corp climate action platform focused on tree planting around the world, the Capgemini Forest has now reached over 1 million trees planted across 16 countries. We will continue to source nature and climate solutions in line with our targets to retire credits equivalent to our operational emissions in 2025, adding our supply chain in 2030 and reaching Net Zero in 2040."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 210 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 f) Collective Action: Employee Environmental Training Our Sustainability Campus, launched in 2022, is accessible to all our people globally. It was created to centralize sustainability learning and facilitate upskilling on this critical topic. In 2024, the Group made the Sustainability awareness module mandatory to all employees, starting in September 2024. The module has been well‐received, with employees rating the module an average of 4.6 out of 5. We enhanced the module’s accessibility by translating it into eight languages and providing downloadable transcripts. Additionally, we made the module more sustainable by optimizing video size and storage and eliminating auto‐play functionality. Beyond awareness, the Campus offers specialized training, focusing on specific roles, as well as industry‐specific training modules and deep dives on key sustainability topics, catering to all levels of experience. Employees can upskill on sustainability by completing learning pathways that focus on topics related to their interest, industry and portfolio, as well as learning about our specific client offers on sustainability. Capgemini employees in IT roles for example are encouraged to complete the Green IT Essentials Module, which explores the impact of digital technology on the environment. Additionally beyond the industry training provided on our Campus, our Group Sustainability and CRES teams have run internal campaigns around energy efficiency for our employees across multiple countries, both in our offices as well as for people at home. In 2024, we introduced 19 new modules on our Sustainability Campus – including around Sustainable Product Design (Cradle to Cradle), Wind, Solar, Hydrogen, Food Waste among others – and updated five modules, ensuring our offerings remain relevant to employee needs, support their daily challenges, and meet client expectations. In addition, we launched our Green Talk – Business to Planet Podcasts with over 7,000 listens. Our commitment to excellence was recognized in September 2024, when the Sustainability Campus received prestigious Brandon Hall Awards, including: — Gold for Best Unique or Innovative Learning and Development Program; — Gold for Best Use of Blended Learning; and — Bronze for Best Learning Strategy. For information on our work with clients, please refer to Section 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives”. g) Global Leaderships As a global leader in sustainability, Capgemini continued to earn recognition in 2024, including CDP’s A-List and a Platinum Ecovadis rating. The Group’s public commitments, such as those to RE100 and EV100, underscore its dedication to renewable energy and electric mobility. Strategic partnerships with the World Economic Forum and UNICEF reinforce Capgemini’s role as a responsible technology leader, driving progress toward global decarbonization. A comprehensive list of recognitions earned, or engagements made by Capgemini in relation to climate change is set out below: — maintaining a Platinum medal in our Ecovadis sustainability assessment, the highest possible rating with a score which puts the Group in the top 1% of organizations assessed since 2020, including achieving a perfect 100% score in the Environment Section of the assessment; — retaining a position on the ‘A List’ published by the global environmental non‐profit CDP for its leadership in corporate sustainability; — remaining a constituent of the DJSI Europe Index with a 79/100 score compared with an industry average of 49/100; — maintaining our place as a Supplier Engagement Leader on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for taking action to measure and reduce climate impacts and risks in our supply chain. We were recognized by CDP as a Supplier Engagement Leader; — being placed in the top ten of the Financial Times “Europe’s Climate Leaders 2024”; — being included in @TIME magazine’s World’s Most Sustainable Companies (ranked 4th in our sector). From an initial list of 5,000 global companies, the companies that made it to the top 500 list were assessed for their commitments, external ratings, reporting and transparency and environmental and social stewardship; — joining the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders in 2021, a global community of Chief Executive Officers who catalyze action across all sectors and engage policymakers to help deliver the transition to a net zero economy; — becoming a signatory to the RE100 in 2020, committing to transition 100% of our electricity to renewable sources by 2025; — joining EV100 in 2021, making a commitment to transition to an electric fleet by 2030, as well as supporting customers and staff to use electric vehicles by installing charging infrastructure; — joining a three‐year partnership with UNICEF in 2023 to support the “Green Rising” initiative (implemented by Generation Unlimited), which aims to mobilize 10 million young people at a grassroots level, to drive climate action; — joining the WEF 1trillion trees campaign in 2021 to conserve, restore and grow trees around the world with a commitment to plant 20 million trees by 2030; — joining the LEAF coalition in 2022, (the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance) a public private partnership with a goal is to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state); — joining the First Movers Coalition in 2023, for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable net carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030; — joining the European Green Digital Coalition in 2022 to ensure technology is a key driver to address sustainability issues in support of a green digital transformation of the EU; — joining the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Early Adopters Program in 2022 as part of our commitment to transparently disclose our implementation of the #TenPrinciples and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals; — joining the European Commission’s Sustainable Consumption Pledge in 2023, reflecting our commitment to act on climate change and increase the circularity of our business; — becoming a signatory to the Taskforce for Climate‐related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2020 supporting action to build resilient solutions to climate change through climate‐related financial disclosures;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 211 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — setting our first Science Based Targets in 2016 and, in 2022, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line with the Corporate Net Zero Standard and a 1.5°C trajectory; and (1) EV data is calculated as of 30/11/2024. Approximately 1500 vehicles in India (accounting for around 11% of the total number of company cars) have been excluded from our EV targets so have not been included in the data above. — becoming a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a coalition of leading net zero initiatives. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5‐degree targets in 2020. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007. 4.3.3.4 Targets related to climate change mitigation Net zero performance indicators Headline (SBTi) targets Near term targets (2030) Long term targets (2040) Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % change vs 2019 % change vs 2023 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -92.8% √ -17.9% Scope 3 Business travel emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.26 0.50 0.48 √ -61.9% √ -4.0% Scope 3 employee commuting emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.08 0.50 0.55 √ -49.1% √ 9.8% Scope 3 purchased goods and services -50% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -1.4% √ -14.4% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Supporting performance indicators Supporting targets Near term targets Long term targets Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % of electricity from renewable sources 100% by 2025 Maintain 100% RE100 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ Electric vehicles (including electric plug‐in hybrids) (1) - - - - 34.0% 71.4% Electric vehicles (excluding electric plug‐in hybrids) 100% by 2030 Maintain 100% EV100 - - 25.6% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Capgemini has set a headline Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated net zero target, which is to achieve 90% absolute reduction across our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040, against a 2019 baseline. This means reducing our total 2019 emissions from 1.13 million tons of CO2e to around 113,000 tons of CO2e by 2040, which equates to an absolute reduction of 1.02 million tons of CO2e. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined accounted for 14% of our emissions in the baseline year, and our combined Scope 1 and 2 target will see these emissions reduce by 90% from 154,078 tons of CO2e in 2019 to 15,408 tons of CO2e in 2040, an absolute reduction of 138,670 tons of CO2e. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 977,472 tons of CO2e in 2019 and according to our SBTi target will reduce to 97,747 tons of CO2e in 2040, a reduction of 879,725 tons of CO2e. In order to achieve our target and ensure we are on track, we have set several near‐term emissions reduction targets: — an absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 business travel emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; and — an absolute reduction in Scope 3 purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030. In addition, we have set two supporting targets, which also contribute towards our emissions reduction strategy: — transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (as part of our RE100 commitment); and — transitioning our company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 (as part of our EV 100 commitment)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 207 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4. Enabling digital collaboration We have continued to extend investments to support a hybrid work culture, upgrading office spaces with AV technologies. This enables employees to connect and collaborate globally and contribute to a reduction in our commuting related footprint. During 2024, we upgraded 808 enhanced and premium meeting rooms with wireless presentation systems, improving the meeting room experience for employees, clients and suppliers. This includes the revamp of 282 enhanced meeting rooms with new, energy‐efficient AV equipment. Additionally, 413 standard meeting rooms were upgraded to support video, enhancing hybrid work environments. We also upgraded to the latest Microsoft Teams app, decom­ missioning legacy Skype and Teams apps and moving all employees globally to the same communication app. Our future actions will focus on building upon and advancing the four main thematic initiatives outlined above. This includes: — continuing to progress on our five‐year road map to rationalize our application landscape and ensure legacy applications are decommissioned, thereby reducing our energy consumption and carbon emissions; — continuing to transition from on‐premises to move to energy efficient cloud‐based infrastructure, delivering energy savings and carbon emission reductions; — continuing to work with original equipment manufacturers and their value chain on the repair and refurbishment of laptops, reducing our Scope 3.1 emissions from hardware. c) Travel & Smart Delivery 1. Business Travel We have started to see business travel emissions reduce once again (down 3.6% per employee vs. 2023). Overall, our overall business travel emissions are 51% lower than they were in 2019, resulting in an absolute reduction of 173,547 tCO2e since then. This reflects the enduring shift to hybrid working and virtual collaboration with clients, following the Covid pandemic. During 2024, we continued to invest in IT solutions and equipment to support hybrid working and virtual collaboration, enabling our people to work from anywhere at any time. In 2024, we developed our travel dashboards across our global sustainability network, enabling the better tracking of travel emissions and more granular analysis of air travel in particular. These dashboards provide faster access to information about the progress of each country against our targets, as well as enabling tracking across different business units and different travel modes. They also provide very detailed insights such as the most frequent flight routes for different employee grades. 2. Transitioning to an electric vehicle fleet Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow employees to order pure petrol and diesel cars, and last year we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new hybrid car orders. Capgemini has committed to transitioning its entire 12,000‐vehicle fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles by 2030, with Belgium for example already ordering a fully electric fleet. In 2024, the share of pure EVs was 26% and 71% when including plug‐in hybrids. We have over 2,600 electric vehicle (EV) charge points in place around the Group, providing our employees with charging for their vehicles. Our next step, from 2025, will be to phase out plug‐in hybrid vehicles, where practical. 3. Reducing the impacts of employee commuting In 2024, we conducted our sixth global commuting survey to understand our employees’ commuting habits, as well as the impacts of home working, including the emissions associated with heating, cooling, and powering IT equipment. In total, we had 81,000 people (a quarter of our workforce) respond to our employee commuting survey in 2024. The results have shown an 10% increase in commuting emissions per employee since 2023 due to continued return to working from the office following the Covid pandemic. Overall, though, the shift to hybrid working continues to hold emissions at below pre‐pandemic levels, with commuting emissions per employee down by 49% vs. 2019 (or by 36% vs. 2019 when the impact of working from home is included). In 2024, we have reduced our employee commuting emissions (including working from home) by 60,084 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019. We will continue to conduct our annual commuting survey to build a comprehensive picture on how our people commute and work from home. This will enable us to continue to build our knowledge and define policies that will keep us on track to our targets. Key actions to support employees to tackle commuting and work from home impacts: — Mobility packages – There are a range of country‐specific mobility packages available to employees. These include very comprehensive mobility arrangements in Germany and Netherlands, which enable employees to use public transport even for their private travel, as well as subsidized or heavily discounted public transport in Italy, Spain and France; — Bicycles and e‐bicycles – Across France, Germany, Netherlands, Portugal and the United Kingdom, a range of support measures are in place to encourage uptake of bikes and e‐bikes, including financial help with buying or loaning a bike (UK, Netherlands, France and Portugal). In Germany, cycling clubs are offered, as well as cycle workshops to provide assistance with repairs. We currently offer bike leasing through localized approaches. Moving forward, we plan to review the program with a more holistic and global perspective, aligning it with employee preferences and ensuring it remains accessible and effective across all regions; and — Home Energy – In the United Kingdom, a series of webinars were held in partnership with the Big Clean Switch to advise employees on improving energy efficiency at home, with around 4,000 of our people attending. Employees are also supported through the provision of access to home energy assessments, to help them identify how they can improve the energy efficiency of their home. We also offer interest‐free loans for employees who would like to move forward with the recommendations from these assessments;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 208 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — Buses – We provide company bus services across all our major sites in India, as well as our offices in Spain (Madrid) and Italy (Rome). In India, we plan to transition to buses powered by bio‐compressed natural gas to reduce our commuting emissions; and — Car share – Across several regions we are planning, or already have in place, ride sharing and carpooling initiatives to reduce emissions. d) Supply Chain 1. Engaging with our suppliers Working with our suppliers is pivotal in advancing our environmental strategy. Supplier engagement continued in 2024 with our supplier day and CPO roundtable events providing platforms for discussing target setting, emissions data capture and low‐carbon pathways. We continue to be recognized by CDP for our efforts to engage with our suppliers on the topic of climate change, achieving a place on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard. In 2025, we intend to collaborate and support suppliers even further by creating training material aligned with the contents of the ESG Pledge and sustainable procurement Policy. This will allow suppliers to improve their knowledge base and have access to tools that will enable them to improve their actions no matter where they are on their own environmental journey. We have also started to integrate environmental criteria into our supplier selection for our main categories (IT Hardware, IT Network and Facility Management). In 2025, we are planning to continue this roll‐out as well as produce material for our suppliers, including basic starter knowledge as well as concrete uses cases to reduce carbon emissions. 2. ESG Pledge In 2024, we continued to roll out our Supply Chain ESG Pledge launched last year, aiming to build strong supplier engagement towards supporting the achievement of Capgemini’s carbon reduction goals. The ESG Pledge requires suppliers to disclose their annual GHG emissions, set science‐based targets validated by SBTi, and share their climate transition and low‐carbon product strategies. By the end of 2024, suppliers representing 35% of our total spend had agreed to commit to the ESG Pledge or are aligned to its principles. Any other actions taken or planned by suppliers are encouraged and can be formalized as voluntary contributions to be committed to within the pledge. Going forward, we plan to make our ESG Pledge more inclusive by extending beyond carbon to encompass critical areas, such as biodiversity, water‐related topics, and addressing broader nature‐focused concerns. This pledge will also integrate wider sustainability objectives and social aspects, fostering a more comprehensive approach to environmental, social, and governance priorities. 3. CDP supply chain membership Our CDP supply chain membership helps us to support our suppliers in calculating their emissions and advancing their climate change understanding. This collaboration has improved the accuracy of our Scope 3 data but also enhanced our insight into the challenges and progress of our suppliers towards net zero. In 2024, the 184 suppliers who responded to our CDP request demonstrated they had already made progress in tackling climate change; around 49% have set science‐based targets, with 56% having a climate transition plan aligned with 1.5C. 4. Embedding sustainability training To ensure a cohesive approach to our net zero goal, it is essential to raise awareness among employees about the environmental implications of their procurement decisions. In 2024, we continued to provide sustainability and carbon accounting training to targeted procurement teams in high emission purchasing categories. We have also redeveloped the set of training available to procurement professionals. This training embeds fundamental knowledge on ESG challenges and concrete actions, as well as best practices that can be deployed with suppliers for carbon emissions reductions. 5. Supplier assessment via an ESG assessment tool and during procurement sourcing process: Capgemini is currently deploying a dedicated ESG assessment platform, which will be fully operational in 2025 (see Section 4.11.7 for more details). This will enable Group Procurement to assess suppliers’ maturity on a range of environmental topics and identify risks within our supply chain. Following risk identification, Capgemini can discuss action plans with suppliers to improve their compliance and business resilience. The four main environmental risk areas categorized within our supplier assessment are pollution, waste, substances of concern and GHG emissions. In 2025, we will also continue refining and adapting our procurement processes to make sure environmental criteria are fully embedded and taking a bigger weight into our sourcing processes. Our future actions will focus on building upon and advancing the five main thematic initiatives outlined above. Beyond the Procurement‐specific pillars above, our Group Procurement team is actively collaborating with Group IT and Group CRES teams on key cross‐functional initiatives. Together, they are delivering an IT refurbishment program aimed at extending the lifespan of current laptops, thereby reducing the need for new purchases and promoting sustainable technology practices. Additionally, the teams are driving circularity in office furniture by identifying opportunities to procure refurbished items or refurbish existing furniture, reinforcing a commitment to sustainable resource use wherever possible (please refer to Section 4.4.2.2 “Actions and initiatives on key purchasing categories” for more details). Group Procurement will also work cross‐functionally with Group IT to enhance supplier engagement and demand management around cloud services. e) Nature and Climate Solutions 1. Collaborating with others for greater impact We are committed to working with others to drive growth in the development of nature and climate tech solutions. We are members of the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance (LEAF) Coalition, a public‐private partnership with the goal to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state) and last year we were one of the first buyers of high integrity forest carbon credits, in a national deal with Ghana and with the State of Para in Brazil. We have also invested in funds including the Mirova Climate Fund for Nature. This fund launched in 2023 with a number of corporate members and currently exceeds €195m euros. It is expected to grow and is targeting projects dedicated to protecting and restoring nature in emerging markets, as well as supporting farmers in their transition to regenerative agriculture."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 209 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 In 2023, we joined the First Movers Coalition for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030. To date we have contracted 39,500 tons to be delivered over the coming years from the following suppliers: Neustark – 10,000 tons Neustark is a Switzerland‐based specialist leader of high‐quality durable carbon removals, which Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to remove 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide. Neustark’s innovative technology and business model captures CO2 from biomass sites, liquefies it, then injects it into existing mineral waste streams such as demolished materials to be recycled and used in construction. This utilizes a process of mineralization that stores the CO2 in the aggregate, permanently removing it from the atmosphere. Neustark’s projects are currently certified under the Gold Standard to ensure credible third‐party assessment and transparency related to performance. Building on its existing 19 sites in Europe, the business plans to bring online approximately 40 additional sites throughout 2025 in the region. Neustark is scaling up rapidly, on track towards its ambition of permanently removing one million tons of CO2 in 2030. Charm Industrial – 16,500 tons Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement with Charm Industrial, based in the US, to permanently remove 16,500 tons of carbon dioxide. Charm Industrial converts biomass residues after harvest (for example, corn stover, forestry residues) into bio‐oil by heating the biomass quickly to very high temperatures. Charm uses woody or cellulosic residues in their pyrolysis and ensures that any emissions associated with growth or harvesting of this biomass are accounted for. This means waste biomass that would have otherwise decomposed is a preferred feedstock. The resulting bio‐oil is low in energy content, but high in carbon content, and can be transported and injected underground into geological storage reservoirs such as depleted oil & gas reservoirs, saline aquifers and salt caverns regulated by the US EPA. It is a highly viscous liquid which is denser than the surrounding formation fluid, and so will sink in the reservoir and risk of buoyancy/upward migration is low. The bio‐oil polymerizes (solidifies) on an expected timescale between 2–20 years, rendering it effectively immobile within the subsurface and therefore durable on geological timescales. This removes CO2 permanently from the atmosphere, out of reach of wildfires, soil erosion and land use change. Climeworks – 13,000 tons Climeworks is a global leader in carbon removal and Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to permanently remove 13,000 tons of carbon dioxide through their direct air capture technology. Direct air capture (DAC) is a technology that captures CO2 directly from the air. Unlike traditional carbon capture methods focused on industrial emissions at the source, DAC offers a versatile solution for carbon removal by capturing CO2 from the air which is then combined with permanent underground storage. Climeworks already operates two Direct Air Capture plants in Iceland and delivers third‐party certified carbon removal services to its customers. In the USA, Climeworks announced three projects as part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Regional DAC Hubs program kickstarting the first hub, Project Cypress. Other promising locations are Canada, Norway, and Kenya. 2. Mitigating emissions beyond our value chain Since 2019, we have reduced our operational emissions by 47%. Alongside this decarbonization, we have continued to scale up our climate contribution. Carbon credit projects In 2024, we retired 314,312 carbon credits from 11 projects, which equates to 72% of our remaining operational emissions. Details of credits retired can be found in Section 4.3.3.5 “Metrics related to our net zero program” below. Together with our suppliers, we perform due diligence on each carbon credit project from which we have retired credits. Since the release of the IC-VCMs Core Carbon Principles (CCP), we have been aligning our evaluation framework to ensure overlap with all ten principles. This includes considering governance of the carbon credit standards to ensure it is effective, operates a registry where credits can be tracked and where information on projects is transparent, and validation and verification is undertaken by independent third-parties. All the carbon credits retired come from CCP eligible programs (VCS, Gold Standard and CAR). At a project level we evaluate additionally, permanence, quantification, ensure no double counting and look for projects that contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, have appropriate safeguarding mechanisms and contribute to the net zero transition. The voluntary carbon market has been and should continue to be in a state of renewal, learning and improving the robustness of processes, assessment and quantification. Our due diligence process does not imply credits retired will receive a CCP label from IC-VCM given how methodologies and the market have had to evolve, but they represent credits from projects that passed our interpretation of these principles at the time of purchase. Going forward our due diligence process will continue to evolve for new investments and purchases to evaluate using best practice in line with our values and principles. As requirements and standards continue to evolve, we will always endeavor to ensure we are following the latest guidelines. There will however always be a lag between commitments made to pre-existing projects, the speed which projects can adapt to methodological changes, new purchases and investments and credits we have available to retire. All credits, if applicable, may be counted towards the host countries achievement of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement. 1 trillion trees campaign (1t.org) Capgemini is part of the World Economic Forum (WEF) 1 trillion trees campaign to conserve, restore, and grow one trillion trees around the world by 2030. We have committed to planting 20 million trees by 2030 and as of the end of 2024 we had planted around 17 million trees. Whilst the majority of this progress is being made through our carbon credit program, we have also established other tree planting initiatives including the Capgemini Forest. Through our partner Ecologi, a B-Corp climate action platform focused on tree planting around the world, the Capgemini Forest has now reached over 1 million trees planted across 16 countries. We will continue to source nature and climate solutions in line with our targets to retire credits equivalent to our operational emissions in 2025, adding our supply chain in 2030 and reaching Net Zero in 2040."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 210 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 f) Collective Action: Employee Environmental Training Our Sustainability Campus, launched in 2022, is accessible to all our people globally. It was created to centralize sustainability learning and facilitate upskilling on this critical topic. In 2024, the Group made the Sustainability awareness module mandatory to all employees, starting in September 2024. The module has been well‐received, with employees rating the module an average of 4.6 out of 5. We enhanced the module’s accessibility by translating it into eight languages and providing downloadable transcripts. Additionally, we made the module more sustainable by optimizing video size and storage and eliminating auto‐play functionality. Beyond awareness, the Campus offers specialized training, focusing on specific roles, as well as industry‐specific training modules and deep dives on key sustainability topics, catering to all levels of experience. Employees can upskill on sustainability by completing learning pathways that focus on topics related to their interest, industry and portfolio, as well as learning about our specific client offers on sustainability. Capgemini employees in IT roles for example are encouraged to complete the Green IT Essentials Module, which explores the impact of digital technology on the environment. Additionally beyond the industry training provided on our Campus, our Group Sustainability and CRES teams have run internal campaigns around energy efficiency for our employees across multiple countries, both in our offices as well as for people at home. In 2024, we introduced 19 new modules on our Sustainability Campus – including around Sustainable Product Design (Cradle to Cradle), Wind, Solar, Hydrogen, Food Waste among others – and updated five modules, ensuring our offerings remain relevant to employee needs, support their daily challenges, and meet client expectations. In addition, we launched our Green Talk – Business to Planet Podcasts with over 7,000 listens. Our commitment to excellence was recognized in September 2024, when the Sustainability Campus received prestigious Brandon Hall Awards, including: — Gold for Best Unique or Innovative Learning and Development Program; — Gold for Best Use of Blended Learning; and — Bronze for Best Learning Strategy. For information on our work with clients, please refer to Section 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives”. g) Global Leaderships As a global leader in sustainability, Capgemini continued to earn recognition in 2024, including CDP’s A-List and a Platinum Ecovadis rating. The Group’s public commitments, such as those to RE100 and EV100, underscore its dedication to renewable energy and electric mobility. Strategic partnerships with the World Economic Forum and UNICEF reinforce Capgemini’s role as a responsible technology leader, driving progress toward global decarbonization. A comprehensive list of recognitions earned, or engagements made by Capgemini in relation to climate change is set out below: — maintaining a Platinum medal in our Ecovadis sustainability assessment, the highest possible rating with a score which puts the Group in the top 1% of organizations assessed since 2020, including achieving a perfect 100% score in the Environment Section of the assessment; — retaining a position on the ‘A List’ published by the global environmental non‐profit CDP for its leadership in corporate sustainability; — remaining a constituent of the DJSI Europe Index with a 79/100 score compared with an industry average of 49/100; — maintaining our place as a Supplier Engagement Leader on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for taking action to measure and reduce climate impacts and risks in our supply chain. We were recognized by CDP as a Supplier Engagement Leader; — being placed in the top ten of the Financial Times “Europe’s Climate Leaders 2024”; — being included in @TIME magazine’s World’s Most Sustainable Companies (ranked 4th in our sector). From an initial list of 5,000 global companies, the companies that made it to the top 500 list were assessed for their commitments, external ratings, reporting and transparency and environmental and social stewardship; — joining the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders in 2021, a global community of Chief Executive Officers who catalyze action across all sectors and engage policymakers to help deliver the transition to a net zero economy; — becoming a signatory to the RE100 in 2020, committing to transition 100% of our electricity to renewable sources by 2025; — joining EV100 in 2021, making a commitment to transition to an electric fleet by 2030, as well as supporting customers and staff to use electric vehicles by installing charging infrastructure; — joining a three‐year partnership with UNICEF in 2023 to support the “Green Rising” initiative (implemented by Generation Unlimited), which aims to mobilize 10 million young people at a grassroots level, to drive climate action; — joining the WEF 1trillion trees campaign in 2021 to conserve, restore and grow trees around the world with a commitment to plant 20 million trees by 2030; — joining the LEAF coalition in 2022, (the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance) a public private partnership with a goal is to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state); — joining the First Movers Coalition in 2023, for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable net carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030; — joining the European Green Digital Coalition in 2022 to ensure technology is a key driver to address sustainability issues in support of a green digital transformation of the EU; — joining the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Early Adopters Program in 2022 as part of our commitment to transparently disclose our implementation of the #TenPrinciples and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals; — joining the European Commission’s Sustainable Consumption Pledge in 2023, reflecting our commitment to act on climate change and increase the circularity of our business; — becoming a signatory to the Taskforce for Climate‐related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2020 supporting action to build resilient solutions to climate change through climate‐related financial disclosures;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 211 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — setting our first Science Based Targets in 2016 and, in 2022, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line with the Corporate Net Zero Standard and a 1.5°C trajectory; and (1) EV data is calculated as of 30/11/2024. Approximately 1500 vehicles in India (accounting for around 11% of the total number of company cars) have been excluded from our EV targets so have not been included in the data above. — becoming a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a coalition of leading net zero initiatives. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5‐degree targets in 2020. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007. 4.3.3.4 Targets related to climate change mitigation Net zero performance indicators Headline (SBTi) targets Near term targets (2030) Long term targets (2040) Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % change vs 2019 % change vs 2023 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -92.8% √ -17.9% Scope 3 Business travel emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.26 0.50 0.48 √ -61.9% √ -4.0% Scope 3 employee commuting emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.08 0.50 0.55 √ -49.1% √ 9.8% Scope 3 purchased goods and services -50% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -1.4% √ -14.4% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Supporting performance indicators Supporting targets Near term targets Long term targets Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % of electricity from renewable sources 100% by 2025 Maintain 100% RE100 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ Electric vehicles (including electric plug‐in hybrids) (1) - - - - 34.0% 71.4% Electric vehicles (excluding electric plug‐in hybrids) 100% by 2030 Maintain 100% EV100 - - 25.6% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Capgemini has set a headline Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated net zero target, which is to achieve 90% absolute reduction across our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040, against a 2019 baseline. This means reducing our total 2019 emissions from 1.13 million tons of CO2e to around 113,000 tons of CO2e by 2040, which equates to an absolute reduction of 1.02 million tons of CO2e. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined accounted for 14% of our emissions in the baseline year, and our combined Scope 1 and 2 target will see these emissions reduce by 90% from 154,078 tons of CO2e in 2019 to 15,408 tons of CO2e in 2040, an absolute reduction of 138,670 tons of CO2e. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 977,472 tons of CO2e in 2019 and according to our SBTi target will reduce to 97,747 tons of CO2e in 2040, a reduction of 879,725 tons of CO2e. In order to achieve our target and ensure we are on track, we have set several near‐term emissions reduction targets: — an absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 business travel emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; and — an absolute reduction in Scope 3 purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030. In addition, we have set two supporting targets, which also contribute towards our emissions reduction strategy: — transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (as part of our RE100 commitment); and — transitioning our company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 (as part of our EV 100 commitment)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 212 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2019 has been chosen as a baseline year for all targets as it represents a typical operating year prior to the impacts of the Covid pandemic and is representative in terms of business areas and activities covered by Capgemini. It is also the year in which Capgemini finalized its acquisition of Altran, significantly expanding its engineering and R&D capabilities and growing the Capgemini Group headcount by over 47,000 people. Due to the transformative nature of this acquisition, it is not meaningful to report in detail on progress prior to 2019. It is perhaps worth noting that Capgemini was in 2016 one of the first in its sector to set science‐based targets approved by SBTi: Capgemini’s headline target of a GHG emission reduction of 30% per employee (vs 2015) was met in January 2020, before the Covid lockdowns came into effect. We continue to accelerate our carbon reduction program across our largest climate‐related impact areas. Looking at our footprint across our value chain, we know our biggest carbon impacts result from the the goods and services we procure, our commuting and business‐related travel as well as the energy use in our facilities. Our near‐term 2030 targets tackle all these areas, covering 98% of our total GHG emissions in both the baseline year and 2024. Our net zero 2040 target covers 100% of our total GHG emissions. In 2024, Capgemini made significant strides towards achieving its targets. We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 93% reduction (vs 2019) primarily driven by our transition to 98% renewable electricity globally. Notably, 32 countries within our operations now run on 100% renewable energy, with over 14,000 MWh of solar power generated on-site. This progress has been supported by our innovative energy-saving initiatives such as our Energy Command Center in India, which has helped reduce global office energy consumption by 42% since 2019. Our commitment to reducing Scope 3 emissions, which represent a larger challenge, also saw advancements. In 2024, business travel emissions remained 51% lower than pre-pandemic levels and our hybrid working policies continue to keep commuting emissions per employee 49% lower than in 2019. Collaborations with suppliers are also central to our approach, as 41% of our emissions stem from purchased goods and services. Through our supplier engagement workshops and ESG Pledge, we have gained commitments from suppliers representing 35% of our spend to align with the ESG pledge. Water conservation is another area where we saw marked improvements, with total water withdrawal down 50% from 2019. Initiatives like rainwater harvesting and advanced sewage treatment facilities across our campuses have been pivotal, particularly in water-stressed regions such as India. Waste reduction and circularity are core to our environmental strategy. We reduced waste per employee by 56% compared to 2019, and our Global Zero Waste Standard is ensuring we minimize waste and embed circularity throughout our operations. Overall, in 2024, we have reduced our total GHG emissions by 393,251 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019, corresponding to a 35% reduction. Alongside our target to reduce our absolute carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we have also made a commitment to scaling up our contribution to climate and nature solutions. We currently invest in projects that will generate high-quality carbon credits (as defined by independent standards) that have a positive impact for the planet and deliver wider social and environmental co-benefits. We continue to reduce our negative impacts and maximize positive actions in other areas, including water and waste, promoting circularity and biodiversity initiatives (please refer to Sections 4.4 “Circular economy and resources” and 4.5 “Other environmental topics” below for further information). We have defined our net zero target in line with SBTi’s Corporate Net-Zero Standard methodology, which requires that companies commit to reaching net zero by 2050. SBTi validation demonstrates the alignment of our targets with the Paris Agreement and with global efforts to limit the global temperature increases to within 1.5 degrees Celsius versus pre-industrial levels. Setting a target to reach net zero by 2040, 10 years ahead of the timeline recommended by SBTi and the Paris Agreement, is ambitious and will hopefully encourage others within our value chain (clients and suppliers) to follow our lead and make equally ambitious commitments. This target aligns with international policy goals, in particular the 2015 Paris Agreement. It covers all our greenhouse gas emissions (which are measured in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and aggregated in tonnes of CO2e) including Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O), as well as any Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) which are primarily used in our air conditioning and refrigerant systems. Our climate targets have been defined through consultation and collaboration with key internal functions (Sustainability, Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT), as well as key Capgemini country and region leads. The targets were ultimately approved by our Net Zero Board including our Group CEO and Board of Directors, before being validated by the SBTi. We have not made any changes to our targets during the reporting period. Minor changes have been made to the emissions calculation methodology and emissions data for historic years, which are provided in more detail in Section 4.3.3.5 b) “GHG emissions and performance”. Progress against most of our targets is reviewed on a quarterly basis by our Net Zero Board, as well as our Cross-Function Committee and Group Sustainability networks. The Board of Directors is updated regularly on our progress against the targets. We also forecast both our year‐end position (to help with short‐term planning) and a long‐term view of how we expect our progress against the targets to evolve over the next few years. Our progress against meeting our target before 2024 is discussed in more detail in Section 4.3.3.1. “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition”. Our description of our decarbonization levers and their overall quantitative contributions to achieve GHG emission reduction target can be found across Sections 4.3.3.1 “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition” and 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program of this Sustainability Statement”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 213 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4.3.3.5 Metrics related to our net zero program We measure our environmental performance through our global carbon accounting system, which provides a comprehensive data set on a range of metrics, including energy consumption, water consumption, F-gas, waste disposal, and GHG emissions across all three scopes. Millions of data points are collected and analyzed on an ongoing basis and presented back to internal stakeholders in a range of interactive dashboards. Having one centralized team and system responsible for gathering, processing, and reporting data helps us maintain a high level of consistency and data quality. We use this extensive data set to enable a very granular view of greenhouse gas emissions, and to help us pinpoint opportunities to reduce emissions. In 2024, we have been further expanding the coverage of our carbon accounting, by adding operations in Egypt and Slovakia to our reporting. Detailed data gathering now takes place in 42 countries covering 99.8% of our global operations by headcount, with data for the remaining 0.2% of operations estimated. We continue to capture and report data monthly for our biggest countries (representing over 75% of the Group’s office and travel emissions), and for the largest sources of emission enabling faster engagement with the data and results. We also maintain a series of interactive dashboards for our Sustainability, Procurement and Real Estate communities to engage with the data. Data from our carbon accounting system also feeds into other systems and processes. Any data that cannot be provided is calculated based on assumptions, estimations, or extrapolations that are mutually agreed between the Carbon Accounting Team, the sustainability lead within that country and the data owner for that data source, in accordance with the reporting procedure. The estimation process is validated by the carbon accounting team to ensure consistency in approach across the Group. Estimation approaches include, for example, extrapolating data from the same country and source to cover missing months of data, estimating the consumption based on cost per unit of consumption, or utilizing use figures of another site in the same country or region to fill gaps. a) Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption from non‐renewable and renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 254,635 35,982 31,270 -87.7% -13.1% a. LPG, diesel and gas oil (crude oil and petroleum products) MWh 14,899 4,845 5,869 -60.6% 21.1% b. Natural gas MWh 21,282 11,524 9,290 -56.3% -19.4% c. Purchased electricity from fossil sources MWh 208,433 6,975 2,579 -98.8% -63.0% d. Purchased heating from non‐renewable sources MWh 7,523 11,048 11,941 58.7% 8.1% e. Purchased cooling from non‐renewable sources MWh 2,498 1,591 1,590 -36.3% -0.1% Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh - - 0 - - Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 82,481 165,041 164,213 99.1% -0.5% a. Fuel consumption for renewable sources including biomass, biogas MWh - 2,396 2,039 - -14.9% b. Purchased electricity from renewable sources MWh 74,742 148,741 148,504 98.7% -0.2% c. Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity MWh 7,739 13,904 13,670 76.6% -1.7% Percentage of total electricity from renewable sources % 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ - - Percentage of total energy from renewable sources % 24.5% 82.1% 84.0% - - Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 √ -42.0% -2.8% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. 1) Purchased electricity from fossil sources is based on our purchases of electricity on standard utility contracts, where there is no specified breakdown of the source of electricity and no energy attribute certificates are purchased. 2) Purchased electricity from renewable sources includes all renewable electricity purchased through power purchase agreements, renewable electricity tariffs or through energy attribute certificates. 3) Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity refers to electricity that is generated at our sites (from solar photovoltaic panels) and then consumed directly at those sites."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 209 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 In 2023, we joined the First Movers Coalition for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030. To date we have contracted 39,500 tons to be delivered over the coming years from the following suppliers: Neustark – 10,000 tons Neustark is a Switzerland‐based specialist leader of high‐quality durable carbon removals, which Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to remove 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide. Neustark’s innovative technology and business model captures CO2 from biomass sites, liquefies it, then injects it into existing mineral waste streams such as demolished materials to be recycled and used in construction. This utilizes a process of mineralization that stores the CO2 in the aggregate, permanently removing it from the atmosphere. Neustark’s projects are currently certified under the Gold Standard to ensure credible third‐party assessment and transparency related to performance. Building on its existing 19 sites in Europe, the business plans to bring online approximately 40 additional sites throughout 2025 in the region. Neustark is scaling up rapidly, on track towards its ambition of permanently removing one million tons of CO2 in 2030. Charm Industrial – 16,500 tons Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement with Charm Industrial, based in the US, to permanently remove 16,500 tons of carbon dioxide. Charm Industrial converts biomass residues after harvest (for example, corn stover, forestry residues) into bio‐oil by heating the biomass quickly to very high temperatures. Charm uses woody or cellulosic residues in their pyrolysis and ensures that any emissions associated with growth or harvesting of this biomass are accounted for. This means waste biomass that would have otherwise decomposed is a preferred feedstock. The resulting bio‐oil is low in energy content, but high in carbon content, and can be transported and injected underground into geological storage reservoirs such as depleted oil & gas reservoirs, saline aquifers and salt caverns regulated by the US EPA. It is a highly viscous liquid which is denser than the surrounding formation fluid, and so will sink in the reservoir and risk of buoyancy/upward migration is low. The bio‐oil polymerizes (solidifies) on an expected timescale between 2–20 years, rendering it effectively immobile within the subsurface and therefore durable on geological timescales. This removes CO2 permanently from the atmosphere, out of reach of wildfires, soil erosion and land use change. Climeworks – 13,000 tons Climeworks is a global leader in carbon removal and Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to permanently remove 13,000 tons of carbon dioxide through their direct air capture technology. Direct air capture (DAC) is a technology that captures CO2 directly from the air. Unlike traditional carbon capture methods focused on industrial emissions at the source, DAC offers a versatile solution for carbon removal by capturing CO2 from the air which is then combined with permanent underground storage. Climeworks already operates two Direct Air Capture plants in Iceland and delivers third‐party certified carbon removal services to its customers. In the USA, Climeworks announced three projects as part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Regional DAC Hubs program kickstarting the first hub, Project Cypress. Other promising locations are Canada, Norway, and Kenya. 2. Mitigating emissions beyond our value chain Since 2019, we have reduced our operational emissions by 47%. Alongside this decarbonization, we have continued to scale up our climate contribution. Carbon credit projects In 2024, we retired 314,312 carbon credits from 11 projects, which equates to 72% of our remaining operational emissions. Details of credits retired can be found in Section 4.3.3.5 “Metrics related to our net zero program” below. Together with our suppliers, we perform due diligence on each carbon credit project from which we have retired credits. Since the release of the IC-VCMs Core Carbon Principles (CCP), we have been aligning our evaluation framework to ensure overlap with all ten principles. This includes considering governance of the carbon credit standards to ensure it is effective, operates a registry where credits can be tracked and where information on projects is transparent, and validation and verification is undertaken by independent third-parties. All the carbon credits retired come from CCP eligible programs (VCS, Gold Standard and CAR). At a project level we evaluate additionally, permanence, quantification, ensure no double counting and look for projects that contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, have appropriate safeguarding mechanisms and contribute to the net zero transition. The voluntary carbon market has been and should continue to be in a state of renewal, learning and improving the robustness of processes, assessment and quantification. Our due diligence process does not imply credits retired will receive a CCP label from IC-VCM given how methodologies and the market have had to evolve, but they represent credits from projects that passed our interpretation of these principles at the time of purchase. Going forward our due diligence process will continue to evolve for new investments and purchases to evaluate using best practice in line with our values and principles. As requirements and standards continue to evolve, we will always endeavor to ensure we are following the latest guidelines. There will however always be a lag between commitments made to pre-existing projects, the speed which projects can adapt to methodological changes, new purchases and investments and credits we have available to retire. All credits, if applicable, may be counted towards the host countries achievement of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement. 1 trillion trees campaign (1t.org) Capgemini is part of the World Economic Forum (WEF) 1 trillion trees campaign to conserve, restore, and grow one trillion trees around the world by 2030. We have committed to planting 20 million trees by 2030 and as of the end of 2024 we had planted around 17 million trees. Whilst the majority of this progress is being made through our carbon credit program, we have also established other tree planting initiatives including the Capgemini Forest. Through our partner Ecologi, a B-Corp climate action platform focused on tree planting around the world, the Capgemini Forest has now reached over 1 million trees planted across 16 countries. We will continue to source nature and climate solutions in line with our targets to retire credits equivalent to our operational emissions in 2025, adding our supply chain in 2030 and reaching Net Zero in 2040."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 210 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 f) Collective Action: Employee Environmental Training Our Sustainability Campus, launched in 2022, is accessible to all our people globally. It was created to centralize sustainability learning and facilitate upskilling on this critical topic. In 2024, the Group made the Sustainability awareness module mandatory to all employees, starting in September 2024. The module has been well‐received, with employees rating the module an average of 4.6 out of 5. We enhanced the module’s accessibility by translating it into eight languages and providing downloadable transcripts. Additionally, we made the module more sustainable by optimizing video size and storage and eliminating auto‐play functionality. Beyond awareness, the Campus offers specialized training, focusing on specific roles, as well as industry‐specific training modules and deep dives on key sustainability topics, catering to all levels of experience. Employees can upskill on sustainability by completing learning pathways that focus on topics related to their interest, industry and portfolio, as well as learning about our specific client offers on sustainability. Capgemini employees in IT roles for example are encouraged to complete the Green IT Essentials Module, which explores the impact of digital technology on the environment. Additionally beyond the industry training provided on our Campus, our Group Sustainability and CRES teams have run internal campaigns around energy efficiency for our employees across multiple countries, both in our offices as well as for people at home. In 2024, we introduced 19 new modules on our Sustainability Campus – including around Sustainable Product Design (Cradle to Cradle), Wind, Solar, Hydrogen, Food Waste among others – and updated five modules, ensuring our offerings remain relevant to employee needs, support their daily challenges, and meet client expectations. In addition, we launched our Green Talk – Business to Planet Podcasts with over 7,000 listens. Our commitment to excellence was recognized in September 2024, when the Sustainability Campus received prestigious Brandon Hall Awards, including: — Gold for Best Unique or Innovative Learning and Development Program; — Gold for Best Use of Blended Learning; and — Bronze for Best Learning Strategy. For information on our work with clients, please refer to Section 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives”. g) Global Leaderships As a global leader in sustainability, Capgemini continued to earn recognition in 2024, including CDP’s A-List and a Platinum Ecovadis rating. The Group’s public commitments, such as those to RE100 and EV100, underscore its dedication to renewable energy and electric mobility. Strategic partnerships with the World Economic Forum and UNICEF reinforce Capgemini’s role as a responsible technology leader, driving progress toward global decarbonization. A comprehensive list of recognitions earned, or engagements made by Capgemini in relation to climate change is set out below: — maintaining a Platinum medal in our Ecovadis sustainability assessment, the highest possible rating with a score which puts the Group in the top 1% of organizations assessed since 2020, including achieving a perfect 100% score in the Environment Section of the assessment; — retaining a position on the ‘A List’ published by the global environmental non‐profit CDP for its leadership in corporate sustainability; — remaining a constituent of the DJSI Europe Index with a 79/100 score compared with an industry average of 49/100; — maintaining our place as a Supplier Engagement Leader on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for taking action to measure and reduce climate impacts and risks in our supply chain. We were recognized by CDP as a Supplier Engagement Leader; — being placed in the top ten of the Financial Times “Europe’s Climate Leaders 2024”; — being included in @TIME magazine’s World’s Most Sustainable Companies (ranked 4th in our sector). From an initial list of 5,000 global companies, the companies that made it to the top 500 list were assessed for their commitments, external ratings, reporting and transparency and environmental and social stewardship; — joining the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders in 2021, a global community of Chief Executive Officers who catalyze action across all sectors and engage policymakers to help deliver the transition to a net zero economy; — becoming a signatory to the RE100 in 2020, committing to transition 100% of our electricity to renewable sources by 2025; — joining EV100 in 2021, making a commitment to transition to an electric fleet by 2030, as well as supporting customers and staff to use electric vehicles by installing charging infrastructure; — joining a three‐year partnership with UNICEF in 2023 to support the “Green Rising” initiative (implemented by Generation Unlimited), which aims to mobilize 10 million young people at a grassroots level, to drive climate action; — joining the WEF 1trillion trees campaign in 2021 to conserve, restore and grow trees around the world with a commitment to plant 20 million trees by 2030; — joining the LEAF coalition in 2022, (the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance) a public private partnership with a goal is to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state); — joining the First Movers Coalition in 2023, for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable net carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030; — joining the European Green Digital Coalition in 2022 to ensure technology is a key driver to address sustainability issues in support of a green digital transformation of the EU; — joining the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Early Adopters Program in 2022 as part of our commitment to transparently disclose our implementation of the #TenPrinciples and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals; — joining the European Commission’s Sustainable Consumption Pledge in 2023, reflecting our commitment to act on climate change and increase the circularity of our business; — becoming a signatory to the Taskforce for Climate‐related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2020 supporting action to build resilient solutions to climate change through climate‐related financial disclosures;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 211 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — setting our first Science Based Targets in 2016 and, in 2022, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line with the Corporate Net Zero Standard and a 1.5°C trajectory; and (1) EV data is calculated as of 30/11/2024. Approximately 1500 vehicles in India (accounting for around 11% of the total number of company cars) have been excluded from our EV targets so have not been included in the data above. — becoming a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a coalition of leading net zero initiatives. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5‐degree targets in 2020. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007. 4.3.3.4 Targets related to climate change mitigation Net zero performance indicators Headline (SBTi) targets Near term targets (2030) Long term targets (2040) Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % change vs 2019 % change vs 2023 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -92.8% √ -17.9% Scope 3 Business travel emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.26 0.50 0.48 √ -61.9% √ -4.0% Scope 3 employee commuting emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.08 0.50 0.55 √ -49.1% √ 9.8% Scope 3 purchased goods and services -50% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -1.4% √ -14.4% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Supporting performance indicators Supporting targets Near term targets Long term targets Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % of electricity from renewable sources 100% by 2025 Maintain 100% RE100 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ Electric vehicles (including electric plug‐in hybrids) (1) - - - - 34.0% 71.4% Electric vehicles (excluding electric plug‐in hybrids) 100% by 2030 Maintain 100% EV100 - - 25.6% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Capgemini has set a headline Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated net zero target, which is to achieve 90% absolute reduction across our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040, against a 2019 baseline. This means reducing our total 2019 emissions from 1.13 million tons of CO2e to around 113,000 tons of CO2e by 2040, which equates to an absolute reduction of 1.02 million tons of CO2e. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined accounted for 14% of our emissions in the baseline year, and our combined Scope 1 and 2 target will see these emissions reduce by 90% from 154,078 tons of CO2e in 2019 to 15,408 tons of CO2e in 2040, an absolute reduction of 138,670 tons of CO2e. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 977,472 tons of CO2e in 2019 and according to our SBTi target will reduce to 97,747 tons of CO2e in 2040, a reduction of 879,725 tons of CO2e. In order to achieve our target and ensure we are on track, we have set several near‐term emissions reduction targets: — an absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 business travel emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; and — an absolute reduction in Scope 3 purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030. In addition, we have set two supporting targets, which also contribute towards our emissions reduction strategy: — transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (as part of our RE100 commitment); and — transitioning our company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 (as part of our EV 100 commitment)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 212 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2019 has been chosen as a baseline year for all targets as it represents a typical operating year prior to the impacts of the Covid pandemic and is representative in terms of business areas and activities covered by Capgemini. It is also the year in which Capgemini finalized its acquisition of Altran, significantly expanding its engineering and R&D capabilities and growing the Capgemini Group headcount by over 47,000 people. Due to the transformative nature of this acquisition, it is not meaningful to report in detail on progress prior to 2019. It is perhaps worth noting that Capgemini was in 2016 one of the first in its sector to set science‐based targets approved by SBTi: Capgemini’s headline target of a GHG emission reduction of 30% per employee (vs 2015) was met in January 2020, before the Covid lockdowns came into effect. We continue to accelerate our carbon reduction program across our largest climate‐related impact areas. Looking at our footprint across our value chain, we know our biggest carbon impacts result from the the goods and services we procure, our commuting and business‐related travel as well as the energy use in our facilities. Our near‐term 2030 targets tackle all these areas, covering 98% of our total GHG emissions in both the baseline year and 2024. Our net zero 2040 target covers 100% of our total GHG emissions. In 2024, Capgemini made significant strides towards achieving its targets. We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 93% reduction (vs 2019) primarily driven by our transition to 98% renewable electricity globally. Notably, 32 countries within our operations now run on 100% renewable energy, with over 14,000 MWh of solar power generated on-site. This progress has been supported by our innovative energy-saving initiatives such as our Energy Command Center in India, which has helped reduce global office energy consumption by 42% since 2019. Our commitment to reducing Scope 3 emissions, which represent a larger challenge, also saw advancements. In 2024, business travel emissions remained 51% lower than pre-pandemic levels and our hybrid working policies continue to keep commuting emissions per employee 49% lower than in 2019. Collaborations with suppliers are also central to our approach, as 41% of our emissions stem from purchased goods and services. Through our supplier engagement workshops and ESG Pledge, we have gained commitments from suppliers representing 35% of our spend to align with the ESG pledge. Water conservation is another area where we saw marked improvements, with total water withdrawal down 50% from 2019. Initiatives like rainwater harvesting and advanced sewage treatment facilities across our campuses have been pivotal, particularly in water-stressed regions such as India. Waste reduction and circularity are core to our environmental strategy. We reduced waste per employee by 56% compared to 2019, and our Global Zero Waste Standard is ensuring we minimize waste and embed circularity throughout our operations. Overall, in 2024, we have reduced our total GHG emissions by 393,251 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019, corresponding to a 35% reduction. Alongside our target to reduce our absolute carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we have also made a commitment to scaling up our contribution to climate and nature solutions. We currently invest in projects that will generate high-quality carbon credits (as defined by independent standards) that have a positive impact for the planet and deliver wider social and environmental co-benefits. We continue to reduce our negative impacts and maximize positive actions in other areas, including water and waste, promoting circularity and biodiversity initiatives (please refer to Sections 4.4 “Circular economy and resources” and 4.5 “Other environmental topics” below for further information). We have defined our net zero target in line with SBTi’s Corporate Net-Zero Standard methodology, which requires that companies commit to reaching net zero by 2050. SBTi validation demonstrates the alignment of our targets with the Paris Agreement and with global efforts to limit the global temperature increases to within 1.5 degrees Celsius versus pre-industrial levels. Setting a target to reach net zero by 2040, 10 years ahead of the timeline recommended by SBTi and the Paris Agreement, is ambitious and will hopefully encourage others within our value chain (clients and suppliers) to follow our lead and make equally ambitious commitments. This target aligns with international policy goals, in particular the 2015 Paris Agreement. It covers all our greenhouse gas emissions (which are measured in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and aggregated in tonnes of CO2e) including Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O), as well as any Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) which are primarily used in our air conditioning and refrigerant systems. Our climate targets have been defined through consultation and collaboration with key internal functions (Sustainability, Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT), as well as key Capgemini country and region leads. The targets were ultimately approved by our Net Zero Board including our Group CEO and Board of Directors, before being validated by the SBTi. We have not made any changes to our targets during the reporting period. Minor changes have been made to the emissions calculation methodology and emissions data for historic years, which are provided in more detail in Section 4.3.3.5 b) “GHG emissions and performance”. Progress against most of our targets is reviewed on a quarterly basis by our Net Zero Board, as well as our Cross-Function Committee and Group Sustainability networks. The Board of Directors is updated regularly on our progress against the targets. We also forecast both our year‐end position (to help with short‐term planning) and a long‐term view of how we expect our progress against the targets to evolve over the next few years. Our progress against meeting our target before 2024 is discussed in more detail in Section 4.3.3.1. “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition”. Our description of our decarbonization levers and their overall quantitative contributions to achieve GHG emission reduction target can be found across Sections 4.3.3.1 “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition” and 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program of this Sustainability Statement”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 213 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4.3.3.5 Metrics related to our net zero program We measure our environmental performance through our global carbon accounting system, which provides a comprehensive data set on a range of metrics, including energy consumption, water consumption, F-gas, waste disposal, and GHG emissions across all three scopes. Millions of data points are collected and analyzed on an ongoing basis and presented back to internal stakeholders in a range of interactive dashboards. Having one centralized team and system responsible for gathering, processing, and reporting data helps us maintain a high level of consistency and data quality. We use this extensive data set to enable a very granular view of greenhouse gas emissions, and to help us pinpoint opportunities to reduce emissions. In 2024, we have been further expanding the coverage of our carbon accounting, by adding operations in Egypt and Slovakia to our reporting. Detailed data gathering now takes place in 42 countries covering 99.8% of our global operations by headcount, with data for the remaining 0.2% of operations estimated. We continue to capture and report data monthly for our biggest countries (representing over 75% of the Group’s office and travel emissions), and for the largest sources of emission enabling faster engagement with the data and results. We also maintain a series of interactive dashboards for our Sustainability, Procurement and Real Estate communities to engage with the data. Data from our carbon accounting system also feeds into other systems and processes. Any data that cannot be provided is calculated based on assumptions, estimations, or extrapolations that are mutually agreed between the Carbon Accounting Team, the sustainability lead within that country and the data owner for that data source, in accordance with the reporting procedure. The estimation process is validated by the carbon accounting team to ensure consistency in approach across the Group. Estimation approaches include, for example, extrapolating data from the same country and source to cover missing months of data, estimating the consumption based on cost per unit of consumption, or utilizing use figures of another site in the same country or region to fill gaps. a) Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption from non‐renewable and renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 254,635 35,982 31,270 -87.7% -13.1% a. LPG, diesel and gas oil (crude oil and petroleum products) MWh 14,899 4,845 5,869 -60.6% 21.1% b. Natural gas MWh 21,282 11,524 9,290 -56.3% -19.4% c. Purchased electricity from fossil sources MWh 208,433 6,975 2,579 -98.8% -63.0% d. Purchased heating from non‐renewable sources MWh 7,523 11,048 11,941 58.7% 8.1% e. Purchased cooling from non‐renewable sources MWh 2,498 1,591 1,590 -36.3% -0.1% Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh - - 0 - - Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 82,481 165,041 164,213 99.1% -0.5% a. Fuel consumption for renewable sources including biomass, biogas MWh - 2,396 2,039 - -14.9% b. Purchased electricity from renewable sources MWh 74,742 148,741 148,504 98.7% -0.2% c. Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity MWh 7,739 13,904 13,670 76.6% -1.7% Percentage of total electricity from renewable sources % 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ - - Percentage of total energy from renewable sources % 24.5% 82.1% 84.0% - - Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 √ -42.0% -2.8% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. 1) Purchased electricity from fossil sources is based on our purchases of electricity on standard utility contracts, where there is no specified breakdown of the source of electricity and no energy attribute certificates are purchased. 2) Purchased electricity from renewable sources includes all renewable electricity purchased through power purchase agreements, renewable electricity tariffs or through energy attribute certificates. 3) Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity refers to electricity that is generated at our sites (from solar photovoltaic panels) and then consumed directly at those sites."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 214 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Energy production from renewable and non‐renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Non‐renewable electricity production MWh 2,397 958 1,044 -56.4% 9.0% Renewable electricity production MWh 7,739 13,904 14,326 85.1% 3.0% 1) Non‐renewable electricity production is largely electricity generated by diesel generators and used primarily as a source of back‐up in the case of power outages. 2) Renewable electricity production is renewable electricity generated from on‐site solar panels. The majority of this is used on site, but a small portion (656 MWh in 2024) is exported to the grid and used locally, as it is generated during weekends and holidays when we generate more than we can use. This is the reason the figure is higher in this table than the previous table on self‐generated renewable electricity. Breakdown of energy consumption by type Category Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Offices (leased and owned) Office total energy use MWh 327,347 195,438 190,316 -41.9% -2.6% Office – % of Electricity from renewables % 28.1% 95.8% 98.0% - - Office energy usage per m2 MWh/ m2 0.139 0.091 0.094 -32.4% 3.3% Data centers (leased and owned) Data centers (Leased and owned) total energy use MWh 9,769 5,584 5,168 -47.1% -7.4% Data centers (Leased and owned) – % Electricity from renewables % 36.8% 100% 100% - - Total Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 -42.0% -2.8% Third party data centers Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – Total MWh 83,736 41,525 41,734 -50.2% 0.5% Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – % of electricity from renewables % 68.6% 86.6% 88.0% - - 1) Energy for all our leased and owned offices is included above, with the exception of a few small, serviced offices and co‐working spaces which are reported within the category Scope 3.1 purchased goods and services. 2) In the last few years, most of our data centers have transitioned from being leased or owned to being third‐party managed. For increased transparency, we report the energy consumption associated with third‐party data centers in the last two rows of the table. However, to ensure alignment with the GHG Protocol and RE100, these are not included in the total energy consumption figures or any of the other tables in this Section. Power Usage Effectiveness Metrics Unit 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 Data centers (Leased and owned) – Power Usage Effectiveness # 1.7527 1.6198 1.6057 1.5853 1.5515 1) Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) is a standard industry measure of how energy efficient a data center is. It compares the amount of non‐computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount of energy used to power IT equipment. To help us track the energy efficiency of the data centers we use, we calculate a weighted average of the PUE of leased and owned data centers (with the weighting based on the total energy consumption of each data center)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 215 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) GHG emissions and performance Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are calculated following the methodology outlined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard, using an operational control approach. For the majority of GHG emissions sources (energy usage, business travel, F-gas, waste and water) is collected monthly or quarterly from 42 countries. Data on commuting and working from home is mostly gathered annually through the implementation of a global survey, with some supplementary data sets considered where available. Data on our purchased goods and services is gathered annually in collaboration with the Group Procurement team, utilizing a combination of spend data and supplier or product specific data. GHG emissions for Scope 1 energy and F-gas, Scope 3 travel and commuting and Scope 3 waste are calculated using the emission factors recommended by the United Kingdom Government’s Emission Factors. GHG emissions for category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services are calculated in part using spend-based emission factors sourced from Exiobase, US EPA and the UK Government. For two specific categories, professional services and external resources, we have developed bespoke emission factors based on internal Capgemini data, as we found that our external contractors’ emissions profiles are closer to the Capgemini average than the spend-based factors. In addition, we use product‐specific carbon footprint data from equipment manufacturers for hardware related emissions, as well as supplier‐specific data provided through the CDP supply chain program for some of our key suppliers. For Scope 3.1 emissions associated with third party data centers, we work with suppliers to gather real data on energy and fuel consumption and utilize emission factors from the UK Government’s Emission Factors, as well as supplier‐specific emission factors for electricity consumption. Emissions from co-working spaces are included in category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services. For Scope 2 electricity, as per the GHG Protocol, we calculate emissions in two ways, using both the market-based and the location-based approach. The greenhouse gas emission data that we present throughout this report are aggregated on the basis of market-based emissions approach, which is also the main approach used to calculate progress against targets. Location-based emissions are provided only in the table in this Section. — For Scope 2 market-based emissions we have assumed an emission factor of 0 for electricity purchased on renewable PPAs and/or backed up by renewable energy attribute certificates. Where renewable electricity is not in place, we have used a residual fuel mix factor, sourced for from RE-DISS for countries in Europe. In locations where neither supplier- based nor residual fuel mix factors are available, we have used a location-based emission factor. For Scope 2 emissions associated with purchased heat or cooling, we have used supplier‐specific emission factors where available, and UK Government’s Emission Factors where not available. — For the location-based approach, regional electricity emission factors have been applied for India (Central Electricity Authority), the UK (BEIS), Australia (NGA), Canada (Canada National Inventory), China (China National Bureau of Statistics), and the US (eGrid). For all the other countries, emission factors from International Energy Agency (IEA) have been applied to calculate Scope 2 location-based emissions. Where possible, we gather actual data – such as kWh from digital metering systems or invoices and mileage data from travel agents and expense systems. Data is estimated in the following cases: — when actual data has been delayed beyond the reporting deadline – this data in this report is finalized by early January 2025, by which point not all invoices and expenses are submitted so data is estimated for missing months; — when a small entity does not have the resources available to collect the data – we report data on 99.8% of operations by headcount, the remaining proportion is in smaller entities, typically where there are less than 250 employees. In these countries, data is estimated based on the Group average – with the estimation adjusted in proportion to the floor area/ headcount; — in leased buildings we sometimes do not have the necessary access to invoices and plant infrastructure to gather actual data – in many cases landlords and building owners do provide actual data anyway, but in some cases, we use estimations to fill data gaps; — when we are a tenant of a shared facility with no sub-metering or tenant-specific data – in this case data is allocated based on floor area or number of employees; and — a percentage of employees do not book their travel through the approved travel agency – to account for these cases we extrapolate the data by applying a percentage uplift to the travel agency data. The calculation of the emissions associated with employee commuting and working from home are based on the commuting survey results from 2024. The responses of over 81,000 employees (24% of our headcount), provided insight into the distance employees travelled for each mode of transport, the frequency of commuting versus working from home and the energy consumption and main sources of emissions whilst working from home (including from heating, cooling and IT equipment). For each country, the average commuting emissions and working from home emissions per employee have been calculated which we extrapolated on a country basis to reflect the total number of employees. A small number of countries did not have a big enough population size or survey response rate to constitute a statistically significant sample, and therefore in these cases the data was extrapolated using the Group average."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 211 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — setting our first Science Based Targets in 2016 and, in 2022, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line with the Corporate Net Zero Standard and a 1.5°C trajectory; and (1) EV data is calculated as of 30/11/2024. Approximately 1500 vehicles in India (accounting for around 11% of the total number of company cars) have been excluded from our EV targets so have not been included in the data above. — becoming a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a coalition of leading net zero initiatives. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5‐degree targets in 2020. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007. 4.3.3.4 Targets related to climate change mitigation Net zero performance indicators Headline (SBTi) targets Near term targets (2030) Long term targets (2040) Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % change vs 2019 % change vs 2023 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -92.8% √ -17.9% Scope 3 Business travel emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.26 0.50 0.48 √ -61.9% √ -4.0% Scope 3 employee commuting emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.08 0.50 0.55 √ -49.1% √ 9.8% Scope 3 purchased goods and services -50% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -1.4% √ -14.4% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Supporting performance indicators Supporting targets Near term targets Long term targets Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % of electricity from renewable sources 100% by 2025 Maintain 100% RE100 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ Electric vehicles (including electric plug‐in hybrids) (1) - - - - 34.0% 71.4% Electric vehicles (excluding electric plug‐in hybrids) 100% by 2030 Maintain 100% EV100 - - 25.6% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Capgemini has set a headline Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated net zero target, which is to achieve 90% absolute reduction across our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040, against a 2019 baseline. This means reducing our total 2019 emissions from 1.13 million tons of CO2e to around 113,000 tons of CO2e by 2040, which equates to an absolute reduction of 1.02 million tons of CO2e. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined accounted for 14% of our emissions in the baseline year, and our combined Scope 1 and 2 target will see these emissions reduce by 90% from 154,078 tons of CO2e in 2019 to 15,408 tons of CO2e in 2040, an absolute reduction of 138,670 tons of CO2e. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 977,472 tons of CO2e in 2019 and according to our SBTi target will reduce to 97,747 tons of CO2e in 2040, a reduction of 879,725 tons of CO2e. In order to achieve our target and ensure we are on track, we have set several near‐term emissions reduction targets: — an absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 business travel emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; and — an absolute reduction in Scope 3 purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030. In addition, we have set two supporting targets, which also contribute towards our emissions reduction strategy: — transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (as part of our RE100 commitment); and — transitioning our company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 (as part of our EV 100 commitment)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 212 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2019 has been chosen as a baseline year for all targets as it represents a typical operating year prior to the impacts of the Covid pandemic and is representative in terms of business areas and activities covered by Capgemini. It is also the year in which Capgemini finalized its acquisition of Altran, significantly expanding its engineering and R&D capabilities and growing the Capgemini Group headcount by over 47,000 people. Due to the transformative nature of this acquisition, it is not meaningful to report in detail on progress prior to 2019. It is perhaps worth noting that Capgemini was in 2016 one of the first in its sector to set science‐based targets approved by SBTi: Capgemini’s headline target of a GHG emission reduction of 30% per employee (vs 2015) was met in January 2020, before the Covid lockdowns came into effect. We continue to accelerate our carbon reduction program across our largest climate‐related impact areas. Looking at our footprint across our value chain, we know our biggest carbon impacts result from the the goods and services we procure, our commuting and business‐related travel as well as the energy use in our facilities. Our near‐term 2030 targets tackle all these areas, covering 98% of our total GHG emissions in both the baseline year and 2024. Our net zero 2040 target covers 100% of our total GHG emissions. In 2024, Capgemini made significant strides towards achieving its targets. We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 93% reduction (vs 2019) primarily driven by our transition to 98% renewable electricity globally. Notably, 32 countries within our operations now run on 100% renewable energy, with over 14,000 MWh of solar power generated on-site. This progress has been supported by our innovative energy-saving initiatives such as our Energy Command Center in India, which has helped reduce global office energy consumption by 42% since 2019. Our commitment to reducing Scope 3 emissions, which represent a larger challenge, also saw advancements. In 2024, business travel emissions remained 51% lower than pre-pandemic levels and our hybrid working policies continue to keep commuting emissions per employee 49% lower than in 2019. Collaborations with suppliers are also central to our approach, as 41% of our emissions stem from purchased goods and services. Through our supplier engagement workshops and ESG Pledge, we have gained commitments from suppliers representing 35% of our spend to align with the ESG pledge. Water conservation is another area where we saw marked improvements, with total water withdrawal down 50% from 2019. Initiatives like rainwater harvesting and advanced sewage treatment facilities across our campuses have been pivotal, particularly in water-stressed regions such as India. Waste reduction and circularity are core to our environmental strategy. We reduced waste per employee by 56% compared to 2019, and our Global Zero Waste Standard is ensuring we minimize waste and embed circularity throughout our operations. Overall, in 2024, we have reduced our total GHG emissions by 393,251 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019, corresponding to a 35% reduction. Alongside our target to reduce our absolute carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we have also made a commitment to scaling up our contribution to climate and nature solutions. We currently invest in projects that will generate high-quality carbon credits (as defined by independent standards) that have a positive impact for the planet and deliver wider social and environmental co-benefits. We continue to reduce our negative impacts and maximize positive actions in other areas, including water and waste, promoting circularity and biodiversity initiatives (please refer to Sections 4.4 “Circular economy and resources” and 4.5 “Other environmental topics” below for further information). We have defined our net zero target in line with SBTi’s Corporate Net-Zero Standard methodology, which requires that companies commit to reaching net zero by 2050. SBTi validation demonstrates the alignment of our targets with the Paris Agreement and with global efforts to limit the global temperature increases to within 1.5 degrees Celsius versus pre-industrial levels. Setting a target to reach net zero by 2040, 10 years ahead of the timeline recommended by SBTi and the Paris Agreement, is ambitious and will hopefully encourage others within our value chain (clients and suppliers) to follow our lead and make equally ambitious commitments. This target aligns with international policy goals, in particular the 2015 Paris Agreement. It covers all our greenhouse gas emissions (which are measured in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and aggregated in tonnes of CO2e) including Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O), as well as any Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) which are primarily used in our air conditioning and refrigerant systems. Our climate targets have been defined through consultation and collaboration with key internal functions (Sustainability, Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT), as well as key Capgemini country and region leads. The targets were ultimately approved by our Net Zero Board including our Group CEO and Board of Directors, before being validated by the SBTi. We have not made any changes to our targets during the reporting period. Minor changes have been made to the emissions calculation methodology and emissions data for historic years, which are provided in more detail in Section 4.3.3.5 b) “GHG emissions and performance”. Progress against most of our targets is reviewed on a quarterly basis by our Net Zero Board, as well as our Cross-Function Committee and Group Sustainability networks. The Board of Directors is updated regularly on our progress against the targets. We also forecast both our year‐end position (to help with short‐term planning) and a long‐term view of how we expect our progress against the targets to evolve over the next few years. Our progress against meeting our target before 2024 is discussed in more detail in Section 4.3.3.1. “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition”. Our description of our decarbonization levers and their overall quantitative contributions to achieve GHG emission reduction target can be found across Sections 4.3.3.1 “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition” and 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program of this Sustainability Statement”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 213 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4.3.3.5 Metrics related to our net zero program We measure our environmental performance through our global carbon accounting system, which provides a comprehensive data set on a range of metrics, including energy consumption, water consumption, F-gas, waste disposal, and GHG emissions across all three scopes. Millions of data points are collected and analyzed on an ongoing basis and presented back to internal stakeholders in a range of interactive dashboards. Having one centralized team and system responsible for gathering, processing, and reporting data helps us maintain a high level of consistency and data quality. We use this extensive data set to enable a very granular view of greenhouse gas emissions, and to help us pinpoint opportunities to reduce emissions. In 2024, we have been further expanding the coverage of our carbon accounting, by adding operations in Egypt and Slovakia to our reporting. Detailed data gathering now takes place in 42 countries covering 99.8% of our global operations by headcount, with data for the remaining 0.2% of operations estimated. We continue to capture and report data monthly for our biggest countries (representing over 75% of the Group’s office and travel emissions), and for the largest sources of emission enabling faster engagement with the data and results. We also maintain a series of interactive dashboards for our Sustainability, Procurement and Real Estate communities to engage with the data. Data from our carbon accounting system also feeds into other systems and processes. Any data that cannot be provided is calculated based on assumptions, estimations, or extrapolations that are mutually agreed between the Carbon Accounting Team, the sustainability lead within that country and the data owner for that data source, in accordance with the reporting procedure. The estimation process is validated by the carbon accounting team to ensure consistency in approach across the Group. Estimation approaches include, for example, extrapolating data from the same country and source to cover missing months of data, estimating the consumption based on cost per unit of consumption, or utilizing use figures of another site in the same country or region to fill gaps. a) Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption from non‐renewable and renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 254,635 35,982 31,270 -87.7% -13.1% a. LPG, diesel and gas oil (crude oil and petroleum products) MWh 14,899 4,845 5,869 -60.6% 21.1% b. Natural gas MWh 21,282 11,524 9,290 -56.3% -19.4% c. Purchased electricity from fossil sources MWh 208,433 6,975 2,579 -98.8% -63.0% d. Purchased heating from non‐renewable sources MWh 7,523 11,048 11,941 58.7% 8.1% e. Purchased cooling from non‐renewable sources MWh 2,498 1,591 1,590 -36.3% -0.1% Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh - - 0 - - Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 82,481 165,041 164,213 99.1% -0.5% a. Fuel consumption for renewable sources including biomass, biogas MWh - 2,396 2,039 - -14.9% b. Purchased electricity from renewable sources MWh 74,742 148,741 148,504 98.7% -0.2% c. Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity MWh 7,739 13,904 13,670 76.6% -1.7% Percentage of total electricity from renewable sources % 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ - - Percentage of total energy from renewable sources % 24.5% 82.1% 84.0% - - Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 √ -42.0% -2.8% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. 1) Purchased electricity from fossil sources is based on our purchases of electricity on standard utility contracts, where there is no specified breakdown of the source of electricity and no energy attribute certificates are purchased. 2) Purchased electricity from renewable sources includes all renewable electricity purchased through power purchase agreements, renewable electricity tariffs or through energy attribute certificates. 3) Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity refers to electricity that is generated at our sites (from solar photovoltaic panels) and then consumed directly at those sites."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 214 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Energy production from renewable and non‐renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Non‐renewable electricity production MWh 2,397 958 1,044 -56.4% 9.0% Renewable electricity production MWh 7,739 13,904 14,326 85.1% 3.0% 1) Non‐renewable electricity production is largely electricity generated by diesel generators and used primarily as a source of back‐up in the case of power outages. 2) Renewable electricity production is renewable electricity generated from on‐site solar panels. The majority of this is used on site, but a small portion (656 MWh in 2024) is exported to the grid and used locally, as it is generated during weekends and holidays when we generate more than we can use. This is the reason the figure is higher in this table than the previous table on self‐generated renewable electricity. Breakdown of energy consumption by type Category Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Offices (leased and owned) Office total energy use MWh 327,347 195,438 190,316 -41.9% -2.6% Office – % of Electricity from renewables % 28.1% 95.8% 98.0% - - Office energy usage per m2 MWh/ m2 0.139 0.091 0.094 -32.4% 3.3% Data centers (leased and owned) Data centers (Leased and owned) total energy use MWh 9,769 5,584 5,168 -47.1% -7.4% Data centers (Leased and owned) – % Electricity from renewables % 36.8% 100% 100% - - Total Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 -42.0% -2.8% Third party data centers Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – Total MWh 83,736 41,525 41,734 -50.2% 0.5% Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – % of electricity from renewables % 68.6% 86.6% 88.0% - - 1) Energy for all our leased and owned offices is included above, with the exception of a few small, serviced offices and co‐working spaces which are reported within the category Scope 3.1 purchased goods and services. 2) In the last few years, most of our data centers have transitioned from being leased or owned to being third‐party managed. For increased transparency, we report the energy consumption associated with third‐party data centers in the last two rows of the table. However, to ensure alignment with the GHG Protocol and RE100, these are not included in the total energy consumption figures or any of the other tables in this Section. Power Usage Effectiveness Metrics Unit 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 Data centers (Leased and owned) – Power Usage Effectiveness # 1.7527 1.6198 1.6057 1.5853 1.5515 1) Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) is a standard industry measure of how energy efficient a data center is. It compares the amount of non‐computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount of energy used to power IT equipment. To help us track the energy efficiency of the data centers we use, we calculate a weighted average of the PUE of leased and owned data centers (with the weighting based on the total energy consumption of each data center)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 215 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) GHG emissions and performance Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are calculated following the methodology outlined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard, using an operational control approach. For the majority of GHG emissions sources (energy usage, business travel, F-gas, waste and water) is collected monthly or quarterly from 42 countries. Data on commuting and working from home is mostly gathered annually through the implementation of a global survey, with some supplementary data sets considered where available. Data on our purchased goods and services is gathered annually in collaboration with the Group Procurement team, utilizing a combination of spend data and supplier or product specific data. GHG emissions for Scope 1 energy and F-gas, Scope 3 travel and commuting and Scope 3 waste are calculated using the emission factors recommended by the United Kingdom Government’s Emission Factors. GHG emissions for category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services are calculated in part using spend-based emission factors sourced from Exiobase, US EPA and the UK Government. For two specific categories, professional services and external resources, we have developed bespoke emission factors based on internal Capgemini data, as we found that our external contractors’ emissions profiles are closer to the Capgemini average than the spend-based factors. In addition, we use product‐specific carbon footprint data from equipment manufacturers for hardware related emissions, as well as supplier‐specific data provided through the CDP supply chain program for some of our key suppliers. For Scope 3.1 emissions associated with third party data centers, we work with suppliers to gather real data on energy and fuel consumption and utilize emission factors from the UK Government’s Emission Factors, as well as supplier‐specific emission factors for electricity consumption. Emissions from co-working spaces are included in category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services. For Scope 2 electricity, as per the GHG Protocol, we calculate emissions in two ways, using both the market-based and the location-based approach. The greenhouse gas emission data that we present throughout this report are aggregated on the basis of market-based emissions approach, which is also the main approach used to calculate progress against targets. Location-based emissions are provided only in the table in this Section. — For Scope 2 market-based emissions we have assumed an emission factor of 0 for electricity purchased on renewable PPAs and/or backed up by renewable energy attribute certificates. Where renewable electricity is not in place, we have used a residual fuel mix factor, sourced for from RE-DISS for countries in Europe. In locations where neither supplier- based nor residual fuel mix factors are available, we have used a location-based emission factor. For Scope 2 emissions associated with purchased heat or cooling, we have used supplier‐specific emission factors where available, and UK Government’s Emission Factors where not available. — For the location-based approach, regional electricity emission factors have been applied for India (Central Electricity Authority), the UK (BEIS), Australia (NGA), Canada (Canada National Inventory), China (China National Bureau of Statistics), and the US (eGrid). For all the other countries, emission factors from International Energy Agency (IEA) have been applied to calculate Scope 2 location-based emissions. Where possible, we gather actual data – such as kWh from digital metering systems or invoices and mileage data from travel agents and expense systems. Data is estimated in the following cases: — when actual data has been delayed beyond the reporting deadline – this data in this report is finalized by early January 2025, by which point not all invoices and expenses are submitted so data is estimated for missing months; — when a small entity does not have the resources available to collect the data – we report data on 99.8% of operations by headcount, the remaining proportion is in smaller entities, typically where there are less than 250 employees. In these countries, data is estimated based on the Group average – with the estimation adjusted in proportion to the floor area/ headcount; — in leased buildings we sometimes do not have the necessary access to invoices and plant infrastructure to gather actual data – in many cases landlords and building owners do provide actual data anyway, but in some cases, we use estimations to fill data gaps; — when we are a tenant of a shared facility with no sub-metering or tenant-specific data – in this case data is allocated based on floor area or number of employees; and — a percentage of employees do not book their travel through the approved travel agency – to account for these cases we extrapolate the data by applying a percentage uplift to the travel agency data. The calculation of the emissions associated with employee commuting and working from home are based on the commuting survey results from 2024. The responses of over 81,000 employees (24% of our headcount), provided insight into the distance employees travelled for each mode of transport, the frequency of commuting versus working from home and the energy consumption and main sources of emissions whilst working from home (including from heating, cooling and IT equipment). For each country, the average commuting emissions and working from home emissions per employee have been calculated which we extrapolated on a country basis to reflect the total number of employees. A small number of countries did not have a big enough population size or survey response rate to constitute a statistically significant sample, and therefore in these cases the data was extrapolated using the Group average."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 216 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Gross indirect GHG emissions categories Metrics Retrospective Targets Base year 2019 2023 2024 % N/N-1 2030 2040 Annual % Target/ base year (1) Scope 1 GHG Emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 13,293 8,830 7,893 √ -10.6% - - - Scope 2 GHG Emissions Gross location‐based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 169,430 78,337 77,752 -0.7% - - - Gross market‐based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 140,785 4,765 3,267 √ -31.4% - - - Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions (market -based) 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -17.9% -80% absolute -90% absolute -7.3% Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 977,472 780,886 727,139 √ -6.9% - -90% absolute -4.3% 1 Purchased goods and services 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -14.4% -50% absolute - -4.5% Sub‐category: third party managed data centers 3,870 2,225 1,959 -12.0% - - - 2 Capital goods - - - - - - - 3 Fuel and energy‐related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 23,370 12,350 11,188 -9.4% - - - Upstream transportation and distribution - - - - - - - 5 Waste generated in operations 459 197 135 -31.5% - - - 6 Business traveling 337,203 175,465 163,656 √ -6.7% - - - 7 Employee commuting (including working from home emissions) 310,722 240,812 250,638 √ 4.1% - - - Sub‐category: Working from home 23,007 66,062 64,692 -2.1% - - - 8 Upstream leased assets - - - - - - - 9 Downstream transportation - - - - - - - 10 Processing of sold products - - - - - - - 11 Use of sold products - - - - - - - 12 End‐of‐life treatment of sold products - - - - - - - 13 Downstream leased assets - - - - - - - 14 Franchises - - - - - - - 15 Investments - - - - - - - Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (market‐based) (tCO2e) 1,131,550 794,481 738,299 √ -7.1% - -90% absolute -4.3% Total GHG emissions (market‐based) per net revenue (tCO2e/Monetary unit) 80 35 33.41 -5.3% - - - √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. (1) Annual average reduction in percentages from the baseline year 2019 required to reach the absolute 2030 targets for scope 1 and 2 emissions and purchased goods and services. For our total scope 3 emissions and total GHG emissions this has been done in relation to our 2040 target. We have applied the required EFRAG formula to comply – this represents the average annual % reductions needed to achieve our absolute targets, however it does not represent our year‐on‐year expected reduction, which may vary annually."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 217 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 There have been no significant acquisitions, mergers or other major changes to the business that have required the recalculation of GHG emissions for previous years. There have been minor changes to emissions reported for previous years for the following reasons: — two new countries (Egypt and Slovakia) have been onboarded on the carbon accounting system with previously estimated data replaced with actuals; — some data centers leased by Capgemini are being managed by a third party now. Therefore, their emissions have moved from Scope 1 & 2 to Scope 3 for all years; and — we have received updated information for some countries and corrected minor errors. To ensure year on year comparability, data for all years has been updated where relevant to do so. These changes to historic data are not significant at a Group level, accounting for 0.02% change in total GHG emissions for 2019 and 0.24% change in total GHG emissions for 2023 emissions. However, they are significant at a country or emission source level and therefore have been implemented to ensure year‐on‐year comparability of granular data. Scope 1 emissions relate to direct emissions from buildings or assets – for Capgemini this includes fuel consumption and fluorinated gas (F-gas) used in air conditioning units of the offices and data centers under the Company’s operational control. Scope 2 emissions include emissions associated with the consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or cooling. The reduction in our Scope 2 emissions against the baseline year is the result of a significant increase in the use of renewable electricity. Scope 3 emissions are indirect greenhouse gas emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain. We have assessed the relevance of all GHG Protocol Scope 3 categories and determined that relevant emission categories include 3.1 purchased goods and services, 3.3 fuel and energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) – for Capgemini in particular electricity transmission and distribution losses, 3.5 waste management, 3.6 business travel, 3.7 employee commuting (including working from home). Category 3.1 also includes a small portion of emissions associated with 3.2 capital goods and 3.4 upstream transportation and distribution as there is not always a satisfactory way of separating these emissions. Other Scope 3 categories have been evaluated according to the GHG Protocol criteria, focusing particularly on the size of emissions, the level of stakeholder interest and our ability to influence these emissions, and have been determined as not relevant. Over the last few years, Capgemini has transitioned from having a majority of leased data centers to having a majority of third party managed data centers which are now reported under scope 3.1 emissions, but as a separate line for full transparency. As recommended by the GHG Protocol, emissions of F-gas not covered by the Kyoto Protocol such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are not reported as Scope 1 emissions and are therefore not included above. These F-gas emissions are, however, captured with a value of 258 tons of CO2e for 2024. Our business travel emissions have been calculated including the impact of radiative forcing for air travel and we have also accounted for hotel emissions. We also include company cars within the business travel category, as they are not owned or leased directly by Capgemini but by employees. Not all companies in our sector take this approach so direct comparisons should be made with appropriate awareness and caution. For Belgium and Luxembourg, car emissions have been excluded from commute as they are already accounted for under business travel. Emissions from employee commuting have increased in 2024 as more employees are working from the office (especially in India, which accounts for more than half of the headcount). The total GHG emissions per unit revenue has been calculated by dividing the total GHG emissions (market‐based) by the total revenue. The revenue figures can be found in Chapter 5 “Financial Information” of the 2024 Universal Registration Document. Other Greenhouse Gas Emission metrics Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs 2023 Total operational emissions tCO2e 831,663 444,959 439,053 -47.2% -1.3% Operational emissions per employee (average total headcount) tCO2e/head 3.11 1.28 1.30 -58.2% 1.6% Total emissions per employee (average total headcount) tCO2e/head 4.23 2.28 2.19 -48.2% -3.9%"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 218 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GHG emissions by region Metrics Unit 2024 Europe Middle East & Africa tCO2e 275,897 Scope 1 tCO2e 1,965 Scope 2 tCO2e 2,770 Scope 3 tCO2e 271,162 Asia-Pacific tCO2e 372,399 Scope 1 tCO2e 5,776 Scope 2 tCO2e 406 Scope 3 tCO2e 366,217 Americas tCO2e 90,002 Scope 1 tCO2e 152 Scope 2 tCO2e 91 Scope 3 tCO2e 89,760 Additional quantitative data Metrics Unit Reporting year 2024 Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh obtained through renewable Power Purchase Agreements % 21.4% Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh obtained through renewable contracts bundled with energy attribute certificates % 24.8% Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh associated with unbundled renewable energy attribute certificates % 43.9% Percentage of emissions calculated using primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain % 30.0% Across the Group we have four main methods for sourcing renewable electricity: 1) renewable self‐generation (8% of total electricity consumption) – this is mostly in India, where we own several buildings and have the capacity to install solar photovoltaics, 2) Renewable Power Purchase Agreements (21% of total electricity consumption) – only in place India, where our volume is sufficiently high to make PPAs an option, 3) renewable tariffs, with energy attribute certificates bundled as part of contract (25% of total electricity consumption) – these are in place in the Netherlands and with energy attribute certificates including Guarantee of Origin (GoO) certificates, and 4) Unbundled energy attribute certificates are in place for most other countries (44% of total electricity consumption), with the main instruments used including GoO, REGO, LGC, NZEC and IREC. c) GHG removals and avoidance projects Currently achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts, and the voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our business, with a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% in absolute terms across all scopes by 2040, we are also investing in nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere. Whilst there are a number of different perspectives on the role of carbon credits, our approach is broadly aligned to the view that carbon removal credits can be used when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated and move towards net zero. However, we also believe that long‐term corporate objectives are not sufficiently addressing the high concentration levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases already in, and continuing to enter, the atmosphere today. For these reasons, in addition to reducing our emissions as set out in our carbon reduction targets, we will retire carbon credits on a ton‐for‐ton basis against the residual carbon emissions, associated with our direct operations from 2025 and against the residual emissions including our supply chain from 2030. We do not make any public claims about GHG neutrality. We believe it is essential instead to align on the standards about how to best invest in carbon removals and abatement through nature and climate solutions and welcome the ongoing work of organizations such as the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative (VCMI) and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (IC-VCM) in this area. For more details of our approach to nature and climate solutions and the principles we apply to ensure integrity and credibility, please refer to Section 4.3.3.2 “Policy contributing to our net zero program”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 214 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Energy production from renewable and non‐renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Non‐renewable electricity production MWh 2,397 958 1,044 -56.4% 9.0% Renewable electricity production MWh 7,739 13,904 14,326 85.1% 3.0% 1) Non‐renewable electricity production is largely electricity generated by diesel generators and used primarily as a source of back‐up in the case of power outages. 2) Renewable electricity production is renewable electricity generated from on‐site solar panels. The majority of this is used on site, but a small portion (656 MWh in 2024) is exported to the grid and used locally, as it is generated during weekends and holidays when we generate more than we can use. This is the reason the figure is higher in this table than the previous table on self‐generated renewable electricity. Breakdown of energy consumption by type Category Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Offices (leased and owned) Office total energy use MWh 327,347 195,438 190,316 -41.9% -2.6% Office – % of Electricity from renewables % 28.1% 95.8% 98.0% - - Office energy usage per m2 MWh/ m2 0.139 0.091 0.094 -32.4% 3.3% Data centers (leased and owned) Data centers (Leased and owned) total energy use MWh 9,769 5,584 5,168 -47.1% -7.4% Data centers (Leased and owned) – % Electricity from renewables % 36.8% 100% 100% - - Total Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 -42.0% -2.8% Third party data centers Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – Total MWh 83,736 41,525 41,734 -50.2% 0.5% Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – % of electricity from renewables % 68.6% 86.6% 88.0% - - 1) Energy for all our leased and owned offices is included above, with the exception of a few small, serviced offices and co‐working spaces which are reported within the category Scope 3.1 purchased goods and services. 2) In the last few years, most of our data centers have transitioned from being leased or owned to being third‐party managed. For increased transparency, we report the energy consumption associated with third‐party data centers in the last two rows of the table. However, to ensure alignment with the GHG Protocol and RE100, these are not included in the total energy consumption figures or any of the other tables in this Section. Power Usage Effectiveness Metrics Unit 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 Data centers (Leased and owned) – Power Usage Effectiveness # 1.7527 1.6198 1.6057 1.5853 1.5515 1) Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) is a standard industry measure of how energy efficient a data center is. It compares the amount of non‐computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount of energy used to power IT equipment. To help us track the energy efficiency of the data centers we use, we calculate a weighted average of the PUE of leased and owned data centers (with the weighting based on the total energy consumption of each data center)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 215 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) GHG emissions and performance Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are calculated following the methodology outlined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard, using an operational control approach. For the majority of GHG emissions sources (energy usage, business travel, F-gas, waste and water) is collected monthly or quarterly from 42 countries. Data on commuting and working from home is mostly gathered annually through the implementation of a global survey, with some supplementary data sets considered where available. Data on our purchased goods and services is gathered annually in collaboration with the Group Procurement team, utilizing a combination of spend data and supplier or product specific data. GHG emissions for Scope 1 energy and F-gas, Scope 3 travel and commuting and Scope 3 waste are calculated using the emission factors recommended by the United Kingdom Government’s Emission Factors. GHG emissions for category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services are calculated in part using spend-based emission factors sourced from Exiobase, US EPA and the UK Government. For two specific categories, professional services and external resources, we have developed bespoke emission factors based on internal Capgemini data, as we found that our external contractors’ emissions profiles are closer to the Capgemini average than the spend-based factors. In addition, we use product‐specific carbon footprint data from equipment manufacturers for hardware related emissions, as well as supplier‐specific data provided through the CDP supply chain program for some of our key suppliers. For Scope 3.1 emissions associated with third party data centers, we work with suppliers to gather real data on energy and fuel consumption and utilize emission factors from the UK Government’s Emission Factors, as well as supplier‐specific emission factors for electricity consumption. Emissions from co-working spaces are included in category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services. For Scope 2 electricity, as per the GHG Protocol, we calculate emissions in two ways, using both the market-based and the location-based approach. The greenhouse gas emission data that we present throughout this report are aggregated on the basis of market-based emissions approach, which is also the main approach used to calculate progress against targets. Location-based emissions are provided only in the table in this Section. — For Scope 2 market-based emissions we have assumed an emission factor of 0 for electricity purchased on renewable PPAs and/or backed up by renewable energy attribute certificates. Where renewable electricity is not in place, we have used a residual fuel mix factor, sourced for from RE-DISS for countries in Europe. In locations where neither supplier- based nor residual fuel mix factors are available, we have used a location-based emission factor. For Scope 2 emissions associated with purchased heat or cooling, we have used supplier‐specific emission factors where available, and UK Government’s Emission Factors where not available. — For the location-based approach, regional electricity emission factors have been applied for India (Central Electricity Authority), the UK (BEIS), Australia (NGA), Canada (Canada National Inventory), China (China National Bureau of Statistics), and the US (eGrid). For all the other countries, emission factors from International Energy Agency (IEA) have been applied to calculate Scope 2 location-based emissions. Where possible, we gather actual data – such as kWh from digital metering systems or invoices and mileage data from travel agents and expense systems. Data is estimated in the following cases: — when actual data has been delayed beyond the reporting deadline – this data in this report is finalized by early January 2025, by which point not all invoices and expenses are submitted so data is estimated for missing months; — when a small entity does not have the resources available to collect the data – we report data on 99.8% of operations by headcount, the remaining proportion is in smaller entities, typically where there are less than 250 employees. In these countries, data is estimated based on the Group average – with the estimation adjusted in proportion to the floor area/ headcount; — in leased buildings we sometimes do not have the necessary access to invoices and plant infrastructure to gather actual data – in many cases landlords and building owners do provide actual data anyway, but in some cases, we use estimations to fill data gaps; — when we are a tenant of a shared facility with no sub-metering or tenant-specific data – in this case data is allocated based on floor area or number of employees; and — a percentage of employees do not book their travel through the approved travel agency – to account for these cases we extrapolate the data by applying a percentage uplift to the travel agency data. The calculation of the emissions associated with employee commuting and working from home are based on the commuting survey results from 2024. The responses of over 81,000 employees (24% of our headcount), provided insight into the distance employees travelled for each mode of transport, the frequency of commuting versus working from home and the energy consumption and main sources of emissions whilst working from home (including from heating, cooling and IT equipment). For each country, the average commuting emissions and working from home emissions per employee have been calculated which we extrapolated on a country basis to reflect the total number of employees. A small number of countries did not have a big enough population size or survey response rate to constitute a statistically significant sample, and therefore in these cases the data was extrapolated using the Group average."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 216 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Gross indirect GHG emissions categories Metrics Retrospective Targets Base year 2019 2023 2024 % N/N-1 2030 2040 Annual % Target/ base year (1) Scope 1 GHG Emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 13,293 8,830 7,893 √ -10.6% - - - Scope 2 GHG Emissions Gross location‐based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 169,430 78,337 77,752 -0.7% - - - Gross market‐based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 140,785 4,765 3,267 √ -31.4% - - - Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions (market -based) 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -17.9% -80% absolute -90% absolute -7.3% Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 977,472 780,886 727,139 √ -6.9% - -90% absolute -4.3% 1 Purchased goods and services 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -14.4% -50% absolute - -4.5% Sub‐category: third party managed data centers 3,870 2,225 1,959 -12.0% - - - 2 Capital goods - - - - - - - 3 Fuel and energy‐related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 23,370 12,350 11,188 -9.4% - - - Upstream transportation and distribution - - - - - - - 5 Waste generated in operations 459 197 135 -31.5% - - - 6 Business traveling 337,203 175,465 163,656 √ -6.7% - - - 7 Employee commuting (including working from home emissions) 310,722 240,812 250,638 √ 4.1% - - - Sub‐category: Working from home 23,007 66,062 64,692 -2.1% - - - 8 Upstream leased assets - - - - - - - 9 Downstream transportation - - - - - - - 10 Processing of sold products - - - - - - - 11 Use of sold products - - - - - - - 12 End‐of‐life treatment of sold products - - - - - - - 13 Downstream leased assets - - - - - - - 14 Franchises - - - - - - - 15 Investments - - - - - - - Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (market‐based) (tCO2e) 1,131,550 794,481 738,299 √ -7.1% - -90% absolute -4.3% Total GHG emissions (market‐based) per net revenue (tCO2e/Monetary unit) 80 35 33.41 -5.3% - - - √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. (1) Annual average reduction in percentages from the baseline year 2019 required to reach the absolute 2030 targets for scope 1 and 2 emissions and purchased goods and services. For our total scope 3 emissions and total GHG emissions this has been done in relation to our 2040 target. We have applied the required EFRAG formula to comply – this represents the average annual % reductions needed to achieve our absolute targets, however it does not represent our year‐on‐year expected reduction, which may vary annually."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 217 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 There have been no significant acquisitions, mergers or other major changes to the business that have required the recalculation of GHG emissions for previous years. There have been minor changes to emissions reported for previous years for the following reasons: — two new countries (Egypt and Slovakia) have been onboarded on the carbon accounting system with previously estimated data replaced with actuals; — some data centers leased by Capgemini are being managed by a third party now. Therefore, their emissions have moved from Scope 1 & 2 to Scope 3 for all years; and — we have received updated information for some countries and corrected minor errors. To ensure year on year comparability, data for all years has been updated where relevant to do so. These changes to historic data are not significant at a Group level, accounting for 0.02% change in total GHG emissions for 2019 and 0.24% change in total GHG emissions for 2023 emissions. However, they are significant at a country or emission source level and therefore have been implemented to ensure year‐on‐year comparability of granular data. Scope 1 emissions relate to direct emissions from buildings or assets – for Capgemini this includes fuel consumption and fluorinated gas (F-gas) used in air conditioning units of the offices and data centers under the Company’s operational control. Scope 2 emissions include emissions associated with the consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or cooling. The reduction in our Scope 2 emissions against the baseline year is the result of a significant increase in the use of renewable electricity. Scope 3 emissions are indirect greenhouse gas emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain. We have assessed the relevance of all GHG Protocol Scope 3 categories and determined that relevant emission categories include 3.1 purchased goods and services, 3.3 fuel and energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) – for Capgemini in particular electricity transmission and distribution losses, 3.5 waste management, 3.6 business travel, 3.7 employee commuting (including working from home). Category 3.1 also includes a small portion of emissions associated with 3.2 capital goods and 3.4 upstream transportation and distribution as there is not always a satisfactory way of separating these emissions. Other Scope 3 categories have been evaluated according to the GHG Protocol criteria, focusing particularly on the size of emissions, the level of stakeholder interest and our ability to influence these emissions, and have been determined as not relevant. Over the last few years, Capgemini has transitioned from having a majority of leased data centers to having a majority of third party managed data centers which are now reported under scope 3.1 emissions, but as a separate line for full transparency. As recommended by the GHG Protocol, emissions of F-gas not covered by the Kyoto Protocol such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are not reported as Scope 1 emissions and are therefore not included above. These F-gas emissions are, however, captured with a value of 258 tons of CO2e for 2024. Our business travel emissions have been calculated including the impact of radiative forcing for air travel and we have also accounted for hotel emissions. We also include company cars within the business travel category, as they are not owned or leased directly by Capgemini but by employees. Not all companies in our sector take this approach so direct comparisons should be made with appropriate awareness and caution. For Belgium and Luxembourg, car emissions have been excluded from commute as they are already accounted for under business travel. Emissions from employee commuting have increased in 2024 as more employees are working from the office (especially in India, which accounts for more than half of the headcount). The total GHG emissions per unit revenue has been calculated by dividing the total GHG emissions (market‐based) by the total revenue. The revenue figures can be found in Chapter 5 “Financial Information” of the 2024 Universal Registration Document. Other Greenhouse Gas Emission metrics Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs 2023 Total operational emissions tCO2e 831,663 444,959 439,053 -47.2% -1.3% Operational emissions per employee (average total headcount) tCO2e/head 3.11 1.28 1.30 -58.2% 1.6% Total emissions per employee (average total headcount) tCO2e/head 4.23 2.28 2.19 -48.2% -3.9%"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 218 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GHG emissions by region Metrics Unit 2024 Europe Middle East & Africa tCO2e 275,897 Scope 1 tCO2e 1,965 Scope 2 tCO2e 2,770 Scope 3 tCO2e 271,162 Asia-Pacific tCO2e 372,399 Scope 1 tCO2e 5,776 Scope 2 tCO2e 406 Scope 3 tCO2e 366,217 Americas tCO2e 90,002 Scope 1 tCO2e 152 Scope 2 tCO2e 91 Scope 3 tCO2e 89,760 Additional quantitative data Metrics Unit Reporting year 2024 Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh obtained through renewable Power Purchase Agreements % 21.4% Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh obtained through renewable contracts bundled with energy attribute certificates % 24.8% Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh associated with unbundled renewable energy attribute certificates % 43.9% Percentage of emissions calculated using primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain % 30.0% Across the Group we have four main methods for sourcing renewable electricity: 1) renewable self‐generation (8% of total electricity consumption) – this is mostly in India, where we own several buildings and have the capacity to install solar photovoltaics, 2) Renewable Power Purchase Agreements (21% of total electricity consumption) – only in place India, where our volume is sufficiently high to make PPAs an option, 3) renewable tariffs, with energy attribute certificates bundled as part of contract (25% of total electricity consumption) – these are in place in the Netherlands and with energy attribute certificates including Guarantee of Origin (GoO) certificates, and 4) Unbundled energy attribute certificates are in place for most other countries (44% of total electricity consumption), with the main instruments used including GoO, REGO, LGC, NZEC and IREC. c) GHG removals and avoidance projects Currently achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts, and the voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our business, with a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% in absolute terms across all scopes by 2040, we are also investing in nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere. Whilst there are a number of different perspectives on the role of carbon credits, our approach is broadly aligned to the view that carbon removal credits can be used when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated and move towards net zero. However, we also believe that long‐term corporate objectives are not sufficiently addressing the high concentration levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases already in, and continuing to enter, the atmosphere today. For these reasons, in addition to reducing our emissions as set out in our carbon reduction targets, we will retire carbon credits on a ton‐for‐ton basis against the residual carbon emissions, associated with our direct operations from 2025 and against the residual emissions including our supply chain from 2030. We do not make any public claims about GHG neutrality. We believe it is essential instead to align on the standards about how to best invest in carbon removals and abatement through nature and climate solutions and welcome the ongoing work of organizations such as the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative (VCMI) and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (IC-VCM) in this area. For more details of our approach to nature and climate solutions and the principles we apply to ensure integrity and credibility, please refer to Section 4.3.3.2 “Policy contributing to our net zero program”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 219 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Total amount of carbon credits outside value chain that are verified against recognised quality standards and cancelled Project Name Project Category Project Type Registry Standards Methodology Volume retired in 2024 (tCO2e) XICO2e Carbono Vencedores y Anexos Removal IFM Climate Action Reserve 1. CAR MFP v3.0 5,411 XICO2e Carbono Forestal Ejido San Jose de Miravalles Removal IFM Climate Action Reserve 1. CAR MFP v3.0 1,606 XICO2e Ejido Pueblo Nuevo Removal IFM Climate Action Reserve 1. CAR MFP v3.0 23,064 XICO2e Ejido las Pintas, San Dimas Removal IFM Climate Action Reserve 1. CAR MFP v3.0 1,062 KOKO Kenya Avoidance/ reduction Ethanol Cookstoves Gold Standard 1. GS AMS-I.E. 39,000 Gyapa Cook Stoves Project in Ghana Avoidance Improved Cookstoves Gold Standard 1. GS GS TPDDTEC v 2 136,153 Brazilian Amazon APD Grouped Project Avoidance Avoided Planned Deforestation Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB VM0007 76,243 TIST Program Removal Agroforestry Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB AR-AMS0001 873 Miaoling Afforestation Removal Afforestation Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB AR-ACM0003 4,000 Guoluo Grassland Removal Grassland Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB VM0026 21,900 Delta Blue Carbon Removal Mangroves Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB VM0033 5,000 Sub-Total Removal 62,916 √ Sub-Total Avoidance/Reduction 251,396 √ Total 314,312 √ √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. The table above provides details of the carbon credits retired in 2024 by project, which recognized standards and methodologies they use, project types, where the projects are located, along with the volume of carbon credits retired in 2024. For more insights into some of the projects we are investing in please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program”. In total, we retired 314,312 credits in 2024, up from 236,191 credits in 2023. 0% of credits retired in 2024 were issued from the EU and 0% of credits retired qualify as a corresponding adjustment under Article. 6 of the Paris Agreement."
