"Tables of EU Taxonomy KPIs continued Capex Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities Code1 Absolute Capex Proportion of Capex Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity Minimum Safeguards Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2) proportion of Capex (2023) Enabling3 activities category Transitional4 activities category € million % Y, N, EL, N/EL2 Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Capex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Manufacture of plastic packaging goods CE 1.1 0.5 0.06% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Y N/EL Y Y Y Y n/a Y Y Production of heat/cool using waste heat CCM 4.25 0.8 0.10% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y n/a Y Y Y Y Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.1 1.0 0.12% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y Y n/a n/a Y Y Renewal of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.2 2.7 0.34% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y Y n/a n/a Y Y Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings (and parking spaces attached to buildings) CCM 7.4 0.4 0.05% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y n/a n/a n/a n/a Y E Capex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 5.3 0.67% 0.61% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.06% 0.00% Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Of which enabling (E) 0.4 0.05% 0.05% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% E Of which transitional (T) 0.0 0.00% 0.00% T A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible CapEx (not Taxonomy-aligned) Urban waste water treatment WTR 2.2 1.2 0.15% N/EL N/EL EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.1 0.4 0.06% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Renewal of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.2 1.7 0.21% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles CCM 6.5 48.7 6.12% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings CCM 7.4 0.4 0.05% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Acquisition and ownership of buildings CCM 7.7 33.9 4.26% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Capex from Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not Taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) 86.3 10.85% 10.70% 0.00% 0.15% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% A. Capex from Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 91.6 11.52% 11.30% 0.00% 0.15% 0.00% 0.06% 0.00% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Capex from activities that are not Taxonomy-eligible 703.6 88.48% Total (A+B) 795.2 100.00% 1. The Code abbreviations of the relevant environmental objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution: CCM = climate change mitigation; CCA = climate change adaptation; WTR = water and marine resources; PPC = pollution, prevention and control; CE = circular economy; BIO = biodiversity and ecosystems. 2. Meaning of abbreviations: Y = Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N = No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; EL = Eligible, Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL = Not eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; n/a = Not applicable, the criterion does not apply when assessing the DNSH of the specific activity. 3. Enabling Activities: An economic activity qualifies if it directly supports other activities in achieving a substantial contribution to one or more environmental objectives. To be classified as enabling, the activity must not result in a lock-in of assets that undermine long-term environmental goals, considering the economic lifetime of those assets and have a substantial positive environmental impact based on life-cycle considerations. 4. Transitional activities: These are activities for which no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives currently exist but that support the transition to a climate-neutral economy. They must align with a pathway that limits the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Sustainability Statement continued Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 81 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystem SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model E4.SBM-3_05 Through our double materiality assessment, we have identified a material impact within our upstream value chain specifically related to land use change. However, no material impact has been identified in relation to soil degradation, desertification, or soil sealing. E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model E4-1_01 Protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is one of our main sustainability priorities. Our biggest impact on the biodiversity landscape occurs in the upstream segment of our value chain, and it is related to the potential deforestation (land use change) from some agricultural commodities, mostly wood (used for our paper packaging materials). We are committed to eliminate deforestation of our main ingredients by 2025, and it is aligned with the recommendations by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) for companies with Forest, Land and Agricultural Activities (FLAG). Due to FLAG recommendations we have updated our net zero plan as stated in ESRS E1. Also, in our Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), we have requirements related to deforestation, and our target is to achieve 100% sustainable sourcing by 2025. We voluntarily report the sites which are adjacent to legally protected areas, and for all of them we have a confirmed ‘no negative impact’ by an external expert which performs so-called Source Vulnerability Assessment for all the water sources we use in direct operations. In 2022, we published our biodiversity statement where we set a goal to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. The time horizons we use are defined as follows: short-term (2024), medium-term (2025-2030), and long-term (2031-2050). E4-1_02 Environmental risks at supplier level, including deforestation risk, are mitigated through our robust programme at procurement level. We annually review the risks and performance of all our suppliers against our SGPs, PSA principles for agricultural ingredients, Water Risk Assessment, as well as other equally important aspects that impact our business, such as supply risk and financial stability. Overall, it is important to point out that sustainability is one of the key criteria in supplier selection under strategic sourcing, as well as a criterion for the Annual Supplier Review process that we conduct cross-functionally across our supply base. In more detail, to ensure that suppliers demonstrate ESG requirements’ compliance we rely on multiple screening and assessment practices that offer us a holistic view of their performance. This means we collect primary and secondary data that we combine together and analyse to identify priority areas for critical to our operations suppliers. The Sustainable Agriculture programme secures ESG monitoring through PSA certification process of the Coca-Cola System across our main agricultural commodities. For the remaining supply base, we have designed a robust assessment journey leveraging ESG physical audits, as well as a number of globally recognised screening and assessment tools such as EcoVadis IQ Plus, EcoVadis Assessments, SEDEX, WWF Water Risk Filter Assessment, Resilience Event Watch, Exiger and Moody’s Analytics. Additionally, annual Supply Base Assessments are carried out by specialist consultants for Group Critical suppliers. These assessments evaluate Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers on various criteria, including water risk, climate change, forced labour, child labour, labour rights, biodiversity, and financial risk. In case of any risk identified, the supplier is asked to provide an action plan which is monitored regularly. For deforestation, we have a specific project in place where we perform readiness assessment for all our supplier under the requirements of EUDR and we are currently organising our internal process to ensure we are able to assess risks and take necessary actions on an on-going basis from the moment that EUDR is formally introduced as of 1st of January 2026. While EUDR is covering specific Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 115 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E1 – Climate change Strategy E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation E1-1_01,02,03,05,06,12,13,14,15, E1.MDR-A_06,07,09,10,11,12 & E1-3_05,06, E1-4_23 Our focus on clear targets and robust action plans around climate change is evident in our climate transition plan. We have committed to our NetZeroby40 journey since 2021, and the healthy liquidity position of the Group ensures proper funding of relevant initiatives every year. Our climate transition plan, first developed in 2021, covers the full value chain (scope 1, 2 and 3) and it is as per the 1.5 degree scenario, approved by the SBTi. Developed by a cross-functional team of experts, the plan was approved by the ELT (through Sustainability SteerCo) and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the BoD. Coca-Cola HBC considers five main levers and those are the main actions for each lever: 1. Manufacturing (includes scope 1 fuels used, scope 1 losses of CO2 used for beverage carbonation, scope 2 electricity/heat/steam/ hot water purchased) • Continue implementing and accelerating the energy-efficient projects in our plants (deployment of energy saving projects, old equipment modernization, and installation of heat pumps & electrification). • Improving the CO2 yield in the plants. • Accelerating usage of renewable and/ or cleaner energy to replace fossil fuel in scope 1 or electricity/heat/steam/ hot water in scope 2. 2. Transportation (includes scope 1 fuels used for own transport, both light and heavy, and scope 3 fuels used for outsourced logistics and transportation) • Optimising the routes of light and heavy fleet, increasing logistics efficiency and increasing heavy trucks utilization. • Shifting the existing fleet to innovative technologies and renewable or alternative fuels. • Enhancing the strategic partnerships with our third-party logistics providers and joint investments (accelerate shifting to alternative fuels, route to market evolution, shifting of more volume to trains and applying industry innovations). 3. Packaging (includes scope 3 from all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging used for our products) • Implementing our Packaging Mix of the Future strategy (increasing recycled PET, moving from non-reusable one-way glass bottles to reusable glass bottles and providing more packageless solutions). • Implementing decarbonisation of our primary and secondary packaging materials (aluminium cans, PET bottles, glass bottles, plastic labels, closures, stretch films etc.). 4. Ingredients (includes scope 3 from all ingredients used for manufacturing of our beverages) • Decarbonisation initiatives with our suppliers (engagement of farmers through co- development of farming pilots with suppliers, using regenerative agricultural practices). • Continue reformulation of our products and moving to more lights and zero products in our beverage portfolio. 5. Drink Equipment (includes scope 3 of electricity used by our customers for the drink equipment we provide, scope 1 for refrigerant losses from cold drink equipment) • Accelerate the process of providing energy efficient drink equipment to our customers and finding innovative solutions for further energy efficiency of our drink equipment. • Greening the electricity grid mainly in Europe and with slower pace in Africa. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 83 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued commodities, we are proactively collecting deforestation information from all agricultural ingredients suppliers across all our countries in order to have a holistic view of the exposure and potential risk. By the end of 2025, we will have a programme in place to cover any identified gaps. Last but not least, we are in process of implementing a deforestation tracking platform on top of any other activities already in motion, which will also be ready before the end of 2025. E4-1_03, 04, 05 The Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) has identified five pressures on nature: 1) land/water/sea use change, 2) resource exploitation, 3) climate change, 4) pollution and 5) invasive species. In 2023, we undertook the mapping and materiality assessment on biodiversity across our value chain and we assessed those pressures following the SBTN guideline step 1 and 2. We have collected all our activity data, covering: 1) upstream activities (volumes sourced and origin of raw materials), 2) direct operations (consumption of water and energy of all sites), and 3) downstream (packaging distribution by country). Then we translated the activity data into pressures on nature across five metrics. These pressures on nature were weighted by local nature vulnerability indicators assessing the state of nature in the locations where the activity occurs. Time horizons used in the analysis are as described in E4-1_01. We considered in the assumptions the tighter environmental regulations (e.g., EUDR), carbon pricing policies which would include land conversion activities, deforestation-free commitments from suppliers, and climate risks (e.g., water scarcity, extreme weather events). The result shows that the biggest impact we have is in upstream activities, mainly agricultural suppliers and their impact on land-use change or deforestation. Our procurement strategy to purchase certified raw materials that meet our PSA and our goal of achieving deforestation-free supply chain, support mitigation of the impact and also reduce any potential risk that may occur. E4-1_06 Relevance to stakeholder engagement is described in E4.MDR-T_11. E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-P_01 & E4-2_01, 20 We have adopted policies that address deforestation and sustainable land practices. Our overarching goal for biodiversity is to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Besides, we have set our Environmental Policy, the main objective of which is to minimise the environmental impact of the Group, and the Biodiversity Statement, the objective of which is to enhance biodiversity by reducing emissions and water use, by preserving and reinstating water priority areas, and by sourcing agricultural ingredients sustainably. Moreover, through the Biodiversity Statement, CCHBC is committed to promoting sustainable forest management and helping protect woodlands from deforestation and illegal harvesting. For the monitoring process, please refer to ESRS E1 section, as it constitutes the standard procedure applicable to all relevant topics. Our policies support biodiversity conservation, sustainable land management, and responsible sourcing. We are committed to achieving a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas by 2040 and eliminating deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Thus, our policies address ecosystem protection, sustainable forest management, and mitigation of environmental impacts. We recognise the importance of biodiversity for long-term resilience, as our Natural Capital Impact Study and Source Vulnerability Assessments (SVA) help identify key dependencies and risks, while sustainable sourcing practices mitigate transition risks. We implement traceability mechanisms through certifications, verification schemes, and supplier requirements aligned with The Coca-Cola Company’s Principles for Sustainable Agriculture and EcoVadis assessments. Moreover, our policies prioritise collaboration with NGOs, communities, and industry stakeholders to ensure sustainable supply chains that respect human rights, promote responsible land use, and protect natural ecosystems. E4.MDR-P_02 The policies are applicable across all geographies where Coca-Cola HBC operates. Among the affected stakeholder groups, farmers, other suppliers and local communities associated with the Group’s upstream value chain, are most significantly impacted. E4.MDR-P_03 Policies/statements related to environment (including biodiversity) are approved and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors, and they apply to all Coca-Cola HBC employees, regardless of level and function. E4.MDR-P_04 & E4-2_02 In June 2022, we joined the SBTN Corporate Engagement Program. We will continue working to implement the SBTN’s guidance, in order to map and assess the material impacts on biodiversity of our critical commodities and suppliers and then set science-based targets in priority areas. E4.MDR-P_05 We engage with a broad range of stakeholder groups for biodiversity, including our communities, governments, NGOs, investors and suppliers, taking into account their recommendations in the process of setting biodiversity-related policy. For more information, please refer to E1 section. E4.MDR-P_06 The Environmental Policy and the Biodiversity Statement are publicly available at our site (Policies | Coca-Cola HBC), which affected stakeholders can easily access. E4-2_03 The critical areas in our supply chain are defined based on the material dependencies that we have in relation to biodiversity, for example the provision of water, agricultural raw materials and wood. E4-2_04 We started mapping all our operations and critical commodities/suppliers. For our sustainability assessment, we use the risk-based approach with the support of our partners (EcoVadis). Transparency and traceability of material supply chains is established through certifications/ verification schemes or by ensuring suppliers have robust traceability of supply that meets our expectations (please see ‘Supplier Engagement, Verification and Assurance’ from TCCC Principles for Sustainable Agriculture). Also, we regularly measure and report on the progress made against our Mission 2025 commitments, and all other commitments, including those related to biodiversity and deforestation. The annual performance is disclosed in our Annual Report and the GRI Content Index, verified by an independent auditor, and published on our website. E4-2_05, 06, 07, 18 We are committed to sourcing 100% of our key ingredients in line with the Principles for Sustainable Agriculture as set out by TCCC. These principles protect and support biodiversity and ecosystems, uphold human and workplace rights, ensure animal health and welfare, and help build thriving communities. They apply to primary production, i.e., at farm level, and form the basis for our continued engagement with Tier 1 suppliers to ensure sustainable long-term supply at a lower environmental impact. This extends in particular to the sections Conservation of Forests, Conservation of Natural Habitats, Biodiversity and Ecosystems, Soil Management and Agrochemical Management. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 116 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1.SBM-3_02 We have a thoroughly designed Business Resilience programme that enables us to proactively manage risks – and embrace opportunities – so that we grow sustainably and meet our short-, medium- and long-term objectives. One of the most significant risks to our resilience over the longer term is climate change. By proactively preparing for and managing climate risk through our business strategy and capital investments, however, we can harness significant opportunities. E1.SBM-3_03,04 In our resilience analysis conducted in 2024, we used a variety of climate scenarios in our assessment of the potential impact of climate change on our business, including: RCP1.9, in order to be consistent with our Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) commitment and as representation of a best-case scenario from a climate action point of view; RCP4.5, as it represents the stated policy position and provides a midpoint scenario, and; RCP8.5, as the ‘worst- case’ or ‘extreme’ scenario, particularly for physical risks. This enabled us to consider a broad range of drivers and their impact. In considering the cost of carbon emissions, the more ambitious scenarios assume a greater amount of government use of regulation, taxes and levies and hence the higher costs of carbon. However, we also assumed that government intervention would not be consistent across all our markets given our diverse operating territories, and therefore countries were grouped into leaders, followers and laggards in evaluating potential increases in taxes and levies. As around 90% of our carbon emissions are scope 3, we are dependent on suppliers and customers reducing their carbon emissions. In estimating the reduction in overall carbon emissions and our ability to meet our NetZeroby40 targets, we used NGFS data to estimate industry decarbonisation rates which are assumptions built into our internal plans for meeting our NetZeroby40 target. Included in our assessment of the impact of climate change on our production and distribution, we used external data used by the insurance industry which we consider to be robust. However, we note that climate-related data can project general changes under different climate scenarios, but cannot predict the timing and severity of extreme events, which our facilities are most at risk from. We used assumptions on projected increases in insurance premiums from statements made by the insurance industry on the impact of climate change, however, we note that the impact that those projections are based on may not apply to us as they do not take into account the actions we are taking to adapt to and mitigate the impact of environmental changes. We used a number of internal assumptions about production volume increases to 2040 in order to estimate carbon emissions and resource usage, but we recognise that a considerable number of variables, such as domestic growth rates in each of our operating countries, changes in consumer demand and preferences, weather, industry actions and competition and government regulations, may affect those estimates. E1.SBM-3_06 As a result of our resilience analysis, we continued to improve our assessment of the effects of climate change, with a focus on clear targets and robust action plans. This enables us to deliver on our commitments, mitigate risks and take advantage of the opportunities inherent in change. E1.SBM-3_07 We are keenly aware of the importance of delivering on our plans and the potential to adjust our strategy to respond to emerging needs and priorities. We continue to decarbonise our value chain, while updating our net zero transition plan and developing long-term climate scenarios. We are also working towards our bold commitment to achieving a net-positive impact on biodiversity by 2040 in critical areas of our value chain, implementing the guidelines of the Science Based Targets Network, and we shifted our deforestation-free commitment from 2030 to 2025. We continue to expand our partnerships and seek new collaborations, as our ambitious goals and commitments can only be achieved through collective action. With prudent financial risk management, the Group maintains a healthy liquidity position and access to various funding sources. As of 31 December 2024, the Group had €1.6 billion available under €5.0 billion Euro medium term note programme, €0.8 billion available under €1.0 billion Euro-commercial paper programme, undrawn revolving credit facility of €0.8 billion and several bilateral bank loan facilities. None of the Group’s debt facilities are subject to financial covenants that could impact liquidity or access to capital. For further details, refer to Note 25, p.306. Strong treasury governance ensures a consistent supply of committed funding at both central and operational levels, optimising liquidity and funding risk management to secure the most efficient financing solutions. This diversified funding strategy supports both operational and strategic needs, enabling the Group to allocate resources effectively to the net zero transition plan as necessary. Impact, risk and opportunity management E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation E1.MDR-P_01, E1-2_01 Our NetZeroby40 commitment is fully aligned with our philosophy to support the socio- economic development of our communities and to make a more positive environmental impact. In accordance with the Climate Change Policy and our overall Environmental Policy, we will: • strive to reduce all our emissions across the value chain as much as possible by: • advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; • expanding our use of renewable energy technologies; • deploying more energy-efficient coolers in the marketplace; • accelerating our sustainable packaging agenda and our green fleet; • engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change; • working with suppliers to reduce their carbon footprint and to minimise their climate impacts; and • setting roadmaps for emissions reduction for all our operations and the main steps in the value chain. • keep CO2 emission reduction targets as one of the elements of our long-term management incentive plans; • work with other partners (industries, academia, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), governments, etc.) on climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation; • consider all climate risks and opportunities and integrate them in our business strategy; • investigate the opportunities for finding solutions for our residual emissions, such as biological and/or technological removals; • monitor, report and audit our GHG emissions, targets, results and activities, and publish transparently our progress in our public files. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 85 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time horizon Scope of Action List of actions Current Planned Expected outcome Relation to policy objectives/ targets (where relevant) Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Increase the number of energy-efficient coolers in the marketplace Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Deploying more energy-efficient coolers at the marketplace; Engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change Continue purchasing energy efficient new coolers from our suppliers and replacing old coolers with energy-efficient ones Downstream All markets Customers, Suppliers For packaging initiatives contributing to scope 3, please refer to ESRS E5 on pages 121 to 124 Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Accelerating our packaging and packaging waste agenda; Engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change Using more recycled content and reusable/refillable packaging solutions, decarbonisation at supplier level; all initiatives for packaging collection that increase % collected and recovered packaging Downstream All markets Customers, Consumers, Suppliers Use of ISO standard for commodities and supplier specific LCA development for key direct supplies of raw and packaging materials Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Working with suppliers to reduce their carbon footprint and to minimise their climate impacts Using supplier-specific emission factors,providing guiding suppliers to work on decarbonisation plans and renewable energy, providing supplier Carbon emission development programme (Supplier Leadership on Climate – SLoC). Upstream Global Suppliers E1.MDR-A_04 As per UNESDA statement “Beverage sector acknowledges its responsibility in playing its part in the fight against climate change and we are committed to help the European Union become a climate neutral continent by 2050 by driving decarbonisation throughout our value chain – from responsible sourcing of our ingredients to production and distribution of the final products. We know our competitiveness and long-term success depend on the sustainability of our operations and the resilience of our value chain”. We have not identified direct harm to any stakeholders’ group from our actual impact. All actions we take are towards decarbonisation by following the applicable regulatory, industry and international standards. E1.MDR-A_05 In 2024, we made progress on our climate-related actions and plans and for the fourth consecutive year we reached our annual roadmap: • continued our decarbonisation journey in all five levers in alignment with our NetZeroby40 roadmap; • focused on packaging decarbonisation using a higher percentage of recycled materials and improving percentage packaging collection; • supported further roll-out of Deposit Return Schemes in our EU markets; • promoted Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) policies and the launch of new packaging collection systems in priority markets; • cooperated with eight other industry players and three organisations to publish CSR Europe Biodiversity Alliance White Paper “How Companies in Europe Address Biodiversity’; • expanded our partnerships in water and waste reduction. In 2021, we committed to achieve net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040. This is our most ambitious, complex and forward-looking commitment. We were among the first companies to adopt science-based reduction targets. In our existing net zero roadmap, our starting point is 2017, the baseline for our science-based targets. We have reduced our absolute total value chain emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 31% (excluding Egypt) from 2010 to the end of 2024, our absolute value chain reduction in 2024 versus 2017 is 18% (excluding Egypt). These results come from our sustained investment and focus, and highlight our consistent approach to decarbonisation. Reducing carbon emissions is the non-negotiable goal for our business. We continued to work across our value chain to reduce emissions, with a particular focus on energy efficiency and renewal, packaging, coolers and ingredients. We do this because we will make the biggest progress by delivering sustainable solutions in these parts of our value chain. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 88 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Metrics and targets E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-A_01, 02, 05 & E4-3_01 Table 25: List of key actions and resources in relation to biodiversity Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Application of mitigation hierarchy Quantitative and qualitative information Biodiversity impact and risk assessment Yes Yes, it continues in 2025 Identify CCH’s most material impacts on nature and where they occur in the value chain Prioritise a shortlist of key contributors by location for target setting Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Use of the SBTN methodology. Assessment of the three steps of the value chain. Set targets for water replenishment. Entire value chain Global Suppliers, NGOs, communities, own employees, regulators Avoidance Completed step 1 and 2 of the SBTN methodology Collaborate with suppliers to develop plans to address land conversion risks and develop an appropriate monitoring system to measure deforestation at supplier level Yes Yes, it continues in 2025- 2026 The amount and % of our main commodities which are deforestation-free Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025 Continue collaboration with main agricultural suppliers; cross-functional work for assuring compliance with the EU DR Upstream Global Suppliers, NGOs, regulators Avoidance, Minimisation Meetings with main sugar suppliers performed in 2024; meetings with software provider for geo-satellite monitoring and deforestation monitoring done Biodiversity action near our Tylicz plant in Poland Yes Yes, it continues in the next three years Minimise negative impact and enhance river’s biodiversity Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Fish stocking of the Muszynka River near our Tylicz plant in Poland; two clean-up activities near plant and on riverbanks Own operations, downstream Poland Nature, communities, local municipality Reducing, restoring 3,000 common trout released in three river locations; 400kg waste collected Issue Biodiversity Whitepaper Yes 2025 Publish CSR Europe Alliance Biodiversity Whitepaper Build awareness and collaborate with industries and other stakeholders Work with other industry players from CSR Europe, NGOs and other partners to publish ‘How companies in Europe address biodiversity: Learning from disclosure’ Whitepaper Downstream Europe Other industry players, NGOs, regulators Transform Whitepaper published in February 2025 At this stage, we have not utilised biodiversity offsets or incorporated specific indigenous knowledge into our actions. Our approach is grounded in best practices, scientific knowledge and in the collaboration with our suppliers. For water stewardship projects that also impact biodiversity, please see ‘Table 21: List of actions in relation to water management’ on page 106. E4.MDR-A_03 Our biodiversity journey started in 2022. Our actions are work in progress as we follow the SBTN guidelines, and they are also in dynamic development phase. Our water replenishment activities will continue at least until 2030. Deforestation actions will continue beyond 2025. E4.MDR-A_04 Every site adjacent to legally protected areas has Source Vulnerability Assessment, which shows no negative impact on biodiversity. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 117 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-3_07,08, E1-1_04,06,08 As detailed in the EU Taxonomy section of this sustainability statement, our core economic activity is not yet included in the published Delegated Acts and is therefore not considered Taxonomy-eligible at this stage. However, we have assessed secondary activities that contribute to climate change mitigation. In 2024, 0.67% of total Capex was Taxonomy-aligned, also driven by activities connected to our climate transition plan. Specifically, CCM4.25 ‘Production of heat/cool using waste heat’ , CCM7.4 ‘Installation, maintenance, and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings’ and CE1.1 ‘Manufacture of plastic packaging goods’ contributed to aligned Capex. We have also assessed CCM6.5 ‘Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars, and light commercial vehicles’, which relates to the electrification of our fleet. Although a significant part of our fleet meets the TSC, due to challenges with the DNSH criteria, we will claim zero alignment to EU Taxonomy in 2024. Looking ahead, we expect to maintain or increase EU Taxonomy alignment as we continue to evaluate investment plans and operational expenditures in areas that could become eligible with the introduction of regulatory updates. Metrics and targets E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation E1.MDR-T_01,02,03,05,06,07, E1-4_01,24 NetZeroby40 Multiple climate scenarios have been taken into consideration, as outlined in SBM-3_08_09_10, helping assess external drivers, including policy developments and market shifts. In October 2021, we announced our NetZeroby40 transition plan, as part of our commitment to reach net zero absolute emissions across all scopes by 2040. This target is fully aligned with the 1.5 degree pathway, and it was approved by the SBTi in December 2024 (link to the SBTi website). NetZeroby40 is a carbon emissions roadmap including our base-year results, year-on-year emissions targets, 2030 near-term and our 2040 net zero targets. The plan’s main targets are: Overall net-zero target: • Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain by 2040. Near-term targets: • Energy & Industry: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 46.2% by 2030 from a 2019 base year. Coca- Cola HBC AG also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 27.5% within the same timeframe. • FLAG: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 33.3% by 2030 from a 2019 base year.* Coca- Cola HBC AG commits to no deforestation across its primary deforestation-linked commodities, with a target date of December 31, 2025. * The target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Long-term targets: • Energy & Industry: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 90% by 2040 from a 2019 base year. Coca- Cola HBC AG also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 90% within the same timeframe. • FLAG: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 72% by 2040 from a 2019 base year.* * This target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Science-based targets: please see above. Mission 2025 Developed in 2018, Mission 2025 is a set of sustainability commitments based on our stakeholder materiality matrix and aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their targets. It spans across six key focus areas to cover our entire value chain, including emissions reduction, with the following commitments: • Reduce direct carbon emissions ratio by 30% vs 2017. • 50% of our refrigerators in customer outlets will be energy efficient. • 50% of total energy used in our plants will be from renewable and clean sources. • 100% of the total electricity used in our plants in EU and Switzerland will be from renewable and clean source. E1.MDR-T_04 Our recently approved by the SBTi targets for reducing scope 1 and 2 and scope 3 emissions have organisation-wide coverage. We are covering 100% of our operational activities.E1.MDR-T_10 As previously mentioned, our climate change commitments cover our entire Company, all scope 1, 2, 3, and we aim to reach net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040 as per the 1.5 degree scenario, as well as our intermediate emissions reduction target by 2030 is approved by the SBTi. E1.MDR-T_08 The Group’s annual roadmap of net zero target by 2040 is shown in the net zero chart in the strategic part of the IAR, section ‘License to operate’, page 25. Mission 2025 targets related to climate and energy are disclosed in the Strategic Report, ‘Key performance indicators’ section on pages 33 to 34. Those targets don’t have interim targets, but only annual roadmaps at Group level disaggregated further down per BU. E1.MDR-T_09, E1-4_22 At the end of 2020, we set and received approval by the SBTi of our Science-Based Targets by 2030, as our previous SBT period-closing was end of 2020. Those targets are reported in the 2024 IAR (as an old roadmap): Reduction of absolute scope 1, 2 emissions by 55% by 2030 vs 2017 baseline following the 1.5 degree global warming scenario and reduction of scope 3 emissions by 21% by 2030 vs. 2017. So far, we have achieved 31% reduction of our operational emissions vs 2017 (excluding Egypt). Those approved by the SBTi targets are without the integrated new acquisition, Coca-Cola HBC Egypt operations, as its integration happened in 2022, after targets submission and approval in 2021.For the newest targets, approved by the SBTi in December 2024, please refer to previous page (Net Zero targets and FLAG targets). We report as per the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. We are covering 100% of our operational activities. We account and report all seven GHG emissions and report those as equivalent to CO2. Under scope 2 emissions, we are reporting market-based GHG emissions and separately the location-based scope 2 emissions. Our climate targets are also aligned with the UN SDG Target 13.1, i.e. strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries, as well as Targets 7.2 and 7.3 on increased renewable energy and energy efficiency. We do not use any carbon removal nor neutralisation or off-setting/insetting methodologies to achieve our GHG internal annual roadmap targets as per the SBTi guidelines. E1.MDR-T_11 The Group sets measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound targets on material sustainability matters through a structured and inclusive process. Stakeholder engagement plays a pivotal role in this process, particularly through our Annual Stakeholder Forums, where key discussions are taken, and the insights gathered are integrated into the formulation of our targets. Additionally, the Group takes into account the requirements of ESG raters, including those of our investors, ensuring that our targets are aligned with their evolving expectations. The UN SDGs also form a crucial foundation for the Group’s target- setting process, guiding our efforts in addressing global sustainability challenges. Through this comprehensive approach, the Group ensures that its targets are relevant, ambitious and responsive to both stakeholder input and global standards. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 90 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E4.MDR-T_01-07, 09, 13 & E4-4_06, 07, 09 E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems While the action plan described above is essential to our sustainability strategy, there are no significant Capex or Opex to disclose for the related initiatives. Our Group’s treasury strategy ensures the availability of financial resources to support related initiatives. By leveraging a diversified range of financing mechanisms, we can effectively address both current and future priorities.E4.MDR-T_01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 09, 13 & E4-4_06, 07, 09 Table 26: List of targets’ progress Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline Target to be achieved 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Geographical scope Description of target Mitigation hierarchy Relation of target to identified material impacts Planning to achieve the target Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain Absolute 2025 2020 (cut-off year) 100% Sugar/juices are 96% (certified) Regulation on Deforestation-free Products (EU DR). Global Biodiversity Framework’s ‘30x30’ conservation target. Main commodities (sugar/juices), and critical for biodiversity ones, global scope Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain Avoidance, minimisation, restoration Land use ecosystem change 100% certification for sugar/juices in 2025; In the EU we focus on full EU DR compliance (coffee and paper/wood) in 2025 100% sustainable sourcing Absolute 2025 2017 100% 96% (excluding Multon Partners Juices) FAO Good Agricultural Practices; ILO Main commodities we use, global scope Achieve 100% adherence to the PSA in main agricultural commodities Avoidance, minimisation, restoration and rehabilitation, compensation or offsets Land use ecosystem change In 2024, we have 100% sustainable sourcing for our main agricultural ingredients in Europe. Plan to achieve 100% in Africa in 2025. No assumptions are used to define targets. We have considered the critical areas and commodities based on the risk assessment. We took into consideration the best global practices and guidelines such as the SBTN, FAO Good Agricultural Practices, ILO and EU regulations. Targets are monitored quarterly by obtaining information from suppliers for their sustainable certifications. The amount of procured quantity of raw materials certified is divided by the total procured volume for the raw materials in scope. Current status is as per the initial plans. Targets are set for the upstream part of the value chain due to the biggest impact there. E4.MDR-T_10 & E4-4_05 The targets set are in line with the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework and its mission to halt and reverse biodiversity loss to put nature on a path to recovery, and they are aligned with EU 2030 Biodiversity Strategy, where the goal for protecting 30% of land in the EU is stated as well as with the EU Regulation on Deforestation-free Products (EU DR). E4.MDR-T_11 Stakeholder engagement plays a pivotal role in this process, particularly through our Annual Stakeholder Forums, where key discussions take place, and the insights gathered are integrated into the formulation of our targets. Also, during the supplier sustainability events we organise regularly, we discuss different ESG aspects, including biodiversity and deforestation. Additionally, the Group takes into account the requirements of ESG raters, including those of our investors, ensuring that our targets are aligned with their evolving expectations. Moreover, we have conducted several meetings with our main sugar and sweeteners suppliers where we discussed environmental topics, among them the deforestation issue. E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change E4-5_04 Our operations are primarily based in cities, so we do not have a direct impact on biodiversity and ecosystem change. The impact is linked to Tier 2 and 3 suppliers in the upstream part of the value chain, specifically concerning agricultural ingredients and primarily paper/ wooden materials. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 118 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1.MDR-T_12 As per the GHG Protocol, the recalculation policy for base-year emissions and previous years’ emissions is applicable in case of the following changes: 1) significant change in calculation methodology, 2) significant changeinemissionsconversion factors (LCAs), 3) investment, divestment, mergers and acquisitions with significant impact to business financials and emissions (>3% of the volume), 4) significant change in the business growth rate or activity, and 5) mistake or calculation gap found which is bigger than 3%. In 2024, we have not recalculated our emissions. Emission factors are provided to us by the Institute of Energy and Environment (IFEU) assigned by The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) and used as the emissions factors data source to TCCC and their bottling system for regular updates (update as of January 2024). E1.MDR-T_13 In 2024, we reached 18% reduction of our absolute value chain emissions versus 2017 which is the fourth year of meeting our annual roadmap (please see the Mission 2025 performance table in the strategic part of the IAR: we overachieved our target on percentage energy-efficient coolers, we continued with 100% renewable and clean electricity in our EU and Swiss plants, and we overachieved our percentage renewable and clean energy across Coca-Cola HBC plants.) As part of our performance review, each target is monitored regularly (monthly or quarterly). We report the progress in a specific dashboard. There the status versus the target is colour-coded and disclosed as difference (absolute and in %). Performance review includes setting corrective measures and follow up. E1-4_01-17 Table 10: GHG emission reduction targets Scope Baseline year Baseline GHG emissions Current Reporting Year Value Target year Target reduction: % of baseline GHG emissions Target % of scope 1, 2 and 3 Scope 2 location / market-based Coverage of GHG (Year) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (Year) (%) Old SBT target (by 2024): reduce GHG emissions from direct operations 55% by 2030 vs 2017 (CCH excl. Egypt) 100% scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 market-based Scope 1 and 2 combined 2017 562,608 390,622 2030 55% Old SBT target (by 2024): reduce scope 3 GHG emissions 21% by 2030 vs 2017 (CCH excl. Egypt) 100% scope 3 n/a Scope 3 only 2017 4,399,075 3,684,002 2030 21% Revised target (from 2025) Energy and Industry: reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 46.2% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 market-based Scope 1 and 2 combined (scope 2 market-based) 2019 545,386 (to be adjusted in 2025 after full carbon inventory completion) Will be reported in 2025 2030 46.2% Revised target (from 2025): reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions 27.5% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% scope 3 n/a Scope 3 only 2019 4,622,844 (to be adjusted in 2025 after full carbon inventory completion) Will be reported in 2025 2030 27.5% Revised target (from 2025) FLAG: reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions 33.3% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% FLAG part of scope 3 n/a FLAG scope 3 only 2019 536,389 (to be adjusted in 2025) Will be reported in 2025 2030 33.3% Our targets refer to all GHG types according to the SBTi methodology (e.g., CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) and they correspond to gross emissions. Our old roadmap and targets are based on the approved SBT in 2021 when FLAG targets and Net Zero Guidelines were not available. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 91 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Time horizon of action completion Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Quantitative and qualitative information Label height reductions 2024 2025 2025 To reduce weight of plastic used by 200 tonnes Reduction of waste, NetZeroby40 Design optimisation to reduce weight Upstream, Downstream Greece, Cyprus, Poland & Italy Customers, Consumers, Suppliers Progress made as per the planned activities Expand Reusable (Returnable) Packaging Usage of returnable and refillable glass, and dispensers such as fountains or freestyle machines 2024 - Ongoing To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and reduce waste; Decrease emissions in scope 3 and help achieving our net zero emissions goal Expand Reusable Packaging: • Deliver programmes to increase reusable packaging (returnable and dispensed) formats • Reduce packaging amount in absolute terms. Continue the implementation of Pack Mix of the Future initiatives, focused on expanding RGB across markets setting our vision for profitable growth while reducing CO2 footprint Activated Packageless pilot in leading university in Italy. Replicable programme envisioning packageless campus Downstream Europe and Africa Consumers, Customers, Communities Refillables 12.7% in 2024 from 11.7% in 2023* Packageless stable at 4.3%* *Transactions in NARTD excluding N. Macedonia Increase packaging collection Continue to actively engage with governments and peer companies to establish and ensure that effective operation of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) Organizations, including Packaging Recovery Organizations (PRO) and Deposit Return Schemes (DRS). 2024 - Ongoing To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and decrease plastic waste Supports the delivery of our packaging waste management policy objectives: • Work through cross- sector packaging associations to develop and support effective waste management and packaging collection solutions • Enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of established post- consumer packaging waste management organisations Participated in the supervisory board of EPR organizations in 16 of our countries, providing strategic direction and support Downstream Bosnia, Bulgaria, Czech, Estonia, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, North Macedonia, Poland, Ireland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland Communities, Governments, Customers, Peer Companies Progress made in line with roadmap plans to achieve our 75% collection target by 2025. We ensured ongoing implementation of our policy objective to ensure effective packaging waste management activities are in place across our markets. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 123 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Significant categories of scope 3 emissions Criterion for significance (Magnitude, financial spend, influence, related transition risks, stakeholder views, other Scope 3 emissions magnitude (tCO2e) Relevance as per materiality threshold (Y/N) (E1-6_26, 27) Reporting boundaries considered, calculation methods for estimating GHG emissions, calculation tools applied (E1-6_29) 5. Waste generated in operations Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N Not reported in Scope 3 as this category is below materiality threshold, based on The Coca-Cola Company Materiality Analysis done in 2023 based on biggest bottlers’ input data (including CCHBC). 6. Business travel Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 2,595 Y Distance-based method. Since 2018, we report GHG emissions from flights related to all Company employees. We receive emission data from the travel agencies, they use GHG factors based on the distance travelled and the travel class (from GHG Protocol). GHG factors used include Tank-To-Wheel emissions. 7. Employee commuting Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N We have company owned and leased fleet, including management and functional cars in addition to the company owned and leased heavy fleet (trucks, vans, etc.) used for the product transportation to customers and reported under Scope 1 (mobile combustion). Management and functional cars are used by employees also to commute between home and office. Fuels and energy used for this activity is reported as part of Scope 1 (mobile combustion) and that’s why not included here (to avoid double reporting). Rest of the employee commuting is below materiality threshold, based on The Coca-Cola Company Materiality Analysis done in 2023. 8. Upstream leased assets Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 12,237 Y Average data method. The emissions captured under this category are emissions from electricity and fuel used in rented and outsourced Remote Properties. We use location-based emission factors for electricity used in rented and outsourced Remote Properties. 9. Downstream transportation and distribution Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N These emissions are moved to category 3.4 as 3rd party transportation and distribution services (as they are contracted and paid by the company). 10. Processing of sold products Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N We sell Ready-to-Drink products, no processing required by consumers. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 96 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-A_04 As seen, we have established a comprehensive action plan and implemented several actions related to circular economy and packaging. By those actions, we demonstrate our support to nature and to people independently on whether they are harmed or not. In 2024, no negative incident related to circular economy has been recorded. Financial Resources E5.MDR-A_06, 07, 09, 11 Specifically, to support our actions related to the expansion of reusable/refillable packaging, we make investments every year for the renewal or increase of the returnable containers fleet. In 2024, this investment reached €59 million. We also invested €9.5 million in production infrastructure, mainly for new returnable glass production lines in Italy and Nigeria. In addition, we invest significant amounts to support our action plan around the increase of recycled content in our packaging, specifically by expanding the use of recycled PET. Building on the significant in-house rPET production infrastructure investments we have made in the past few years in Italy, Poland and Romania, we allocated €30 million in 2024 to support the higher cost of recycled PET compared with virgin PET. The Capex and cost of packaging materials mentioned above are reflected in our ‘Financial Statements’, in the cash flow statement and the income statement, respectively. Moving ahead, we will continue to support our circular economy action plan as required. Specifically for 2025, we plan to continue our investments in production infrastructure in Italy to support the RGB expansion in the market, and we will allocate significant Capex on returnable containers across our markets. We also expect that the higher spend for recycled PET compared with virgin PET will increase further to approximately €60 million, as we accelerate our performance against our Mission 2025 target, but also due to the EU requirement for a 25% minimum recycled content on PET beverage bottles. To support our actions, financial resources must be secured through targeted allocation. Our sustainable finance approach underpins the Group’s ability to align funding strategies with sustainability commitments, while supporting the UN SDGs and the EU Environmental Objectives. Financing mechanisms include a diverse range of instruments, ensuring flexibility in meeting both current and future financial requirements for action plans. Metrics and targets E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3_01 We have set voluntary targets that promote circular economy, and they are designed to address both resource inflows and outflows, and the lifecycle of products and materials. E5-3_02 Our objective is to keep our primary packaging 100% recyclable by design. Therefore, we have established a target related to circular product design, which is already achieved. We have made our primary packaging 100% fully recyclable three years ahead of the expected timeline and 2025 target. For us, recyclability is calculated as technical recyclability by design, and here we consider all beverage packaging which is made of glass, aluminium/steel, PET and aseptic cartons. All of those are able to be recycled fully. We consider as technical recyclability by design any reuse or recycle option for those materials. In the definition, we do not take into consideration the packaging collection rates in every country. E5-3_03 & E5-3_04 Our resource inflows targets focus on the continuous improvement of recycled material use. They have a double role, since by increasing their recycled content, the rates of primary raw materials decline. The targets refer to the recycled PET used for plastic bottles. Furthermore, we aim to remove an additional 2,800 tonnes of our light-weight packaging by 2025 compared with 2023 data. E5-3_05 & E5-3_09 As already stated, we aim to source all our paper- based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources. Now, 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) we use are FSC®-certified. Driven by the materiality results, and focusing on the material topics, our targets address the prevention layer (including the reduction) of the waste hierarchy pyramid, as well as recycling and recovering. Returnable glass bottles address reuse layer of the waste hierarchy. E5.MDR-T_01 The majority of those targets are connected with the Packaging Waste Management Policy and reflect total Group targets. To track our performance and our contribution to the final target, every year we set a yearly target as an annual milestone. E5.MDR-T_12 For our targets we use actual data to report the progress, e.g., for recyclability we use the technical by design data of our primary packaging materials (glass, PET, aluminium/steel can, paper, aseptic paper). Our time horizons could be an annual goal aligned with the Business Planning process (BP), mid-term targets aligned with our long-range plan (LRP) and business objectives, or long-term targets such as NetZeroby40 aligned with the external trends. All those targets, however, are disaggregated to annual roadmaps, and our regular performance review is two-pronged: a) versus the annual roadmap; and b) versus the direction of the target year. On this way, we are able to set actions and correct course if needed. E5-3_01 & E5-3_09 & E5.MDR-T_02 – E5.MDR-T_08 Table 28 below provides further details on each target, including their characteristics (targets’ level, their units, their time-boundaries, the progress made over the baseline measurements), illustrating how they contribute to our overall sustainability goals and circular economy principles. Targets are voluntary. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 125 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued S1-10 – Adequate wages S1-10_01 Please see S1. SBM-3_01-04, 06, 11 (Access to a living wage part). S1-11 – Social protection S1-11_01-05 In all Established, Developing and Emerging markets, basic benefits may be provided to both full-time and temporary employees, in particular in relation to labour rights and safety. Stock ownership plans, where these are offered, do not apply to temporary employees due to the vesting periods (one year or more). Benefit packages are provided according to in-country guidelines and are available per country. We do not disclose this information for a single statement currently due to confidentiality. S1-13 – Training and skills development metrics S1-13_01-04 & S1-1_22 Programmes to promote access to skills development We provide learning and development opportunities for all our employees reflecting a key pillar of our people strategy which is democratised learning. In 2024, our learning programmes covering leadership, functional training, general business training and compliance included 552,479 participations, across all management layers. S1-9 – Diversity metrics S1-9_01-02 Table 36: Gender distribution in number and percentage at senior management level (our top 300/top 40 business leaders, including country function heads, Group sub-function heads and the ELT, including the CEO) Gender distribution in number and percentage at top management level 2024 (Headcount) 2024 (%) Female 149 41% Male 210 59% S1-9_03-05 Table 37: Distribution of employees by age group Distribution of employees by age group 2024 (%) < 30 years old 16.4% 30 to 50 years old 67.0% > 50 years old 16.6% Our commitment to people development is supported by our constantly evolving Talent Review framework, which enables us to identify successors for senior leadership roles. We continued to optimise development tools, such as STAY and career conversations, and individual development plan guides. Talent Builders was launched as a programme to support all new people leaders on an end-to-end journey dedicated to the essentials of recruiting, developing and retaining people. We have also focused on our critical growth capabilities, introducing ‘x-ray’ reviews to proactively identify where we need to invest in external hires or internal capability development, which are vital for sustainable business performance and growth. We offer a suite of academies that support professional development of key sales roles. Alongside new Premium Spirits and Coffee Academies, we launched a Digital Commerce Academy and relaunched our Sales Academy for Key Accounts. We also launched MYcroLearnings across all our markets as five-minute bitesize online sessions offered every two weeks to our entire sales force to reinforce foundational and critical elements of sales capabilities. When it comes to investing in our supply chain talent, we launched the Supply Chain Academy to approximately 95% of all supply chain personnel across manufacturing, logistics, quality, planning and procurement. In 2023, we launched our Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Academy, partnering with credible European academia. The programme is long term, continuing in 2024 and 2025. Table 38: Percentage of employees who participated in regular performance and career development review by gender and average number of training hours per employee by gender. Reporting year Females Males 2024 Percentage of employees that participated in regular performance and career development review 76.8% 50.5% Average number of training hours per FTE 19.9 20.2 S1-14 – Health and safety metrics S1-14_01 & S1-1_18 Our Mission is to provide a safe place of work for all our employees, contractors, visitors and individuals under our supervision, with a target of zero accidents across all our operations and sites. For this reason, the following policy is applicable to Coca-Cola HBC employees, contractors, visitors and individuals across all our operations and sites (i.e., 100% of CCH people working in our premises are covered, including contractors working in our premises). We deliver our OH&S policy programme through a structured implementation of the occupational health and safety management system ISO 45001. Adjustments for disabilities: in every office and manufacturing plant we have facilities adjusted for people with disabilities, such as ramps, lifts and toilets. We have established several Healthy working environment initiatives focusing on ergonomic workplace, illumination, noise, indoor air quality and humidity. For each of these, specific design requirements are described in our Engineering Specifications, and regular trainings are offered to the employees (e.g., via specific Toolbox Talks). Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 144 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Table 28: List of targets Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline and Baseline number Target to be achieved Value chain and geographical boundaries 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Stakeholders Involvement Planning to achieve the target Relation to waste hierarchy Recyclability by design Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (99%) 100% of consumer packaging to be recyclable Upstream/Global Percentage of recyclable by design materials from main packaging used in 2024: 100% Sustainable Development Goal 8, 9, 11, 12, 14 & 17 Suppliers 2025 Recycling Light-weight Packaging Absolute in tonnes 2023-2025 2023 Remove 2,800 tonnes of packaging through light-weighting our packaging Own operations/ Global Continue implementing best in class packaging weight Suppliers, Customers Prevention (Reduce) PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (9%) 35% of PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Upstream & Own Operations/Global 23.8% rPET (placed on the market in 2024) Suppliers, Customers 2025 Recycling 50% of PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Upstream & Own Operations/EU countries and Switzerland 45.9% rPET (placed on the market in 2024) Suppliers, Customers 2025 Zero Waste partnerships (city and/or coast) Absolute 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (0) Engage in 20 zero waste partnerships (city and/or coast) Downstream/Global 20 out of 20 zero waste projects NGOs, Communities, Local municipalities 2025 – Collection rate of our primary packaging placed on the market Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (41%) Help collect the equivalent of 75% of our primary packaging Downstream/Global 57% оf primary packaging placed on the market in 2024 (including Egypt); Excluding Egypt, the amount is 58% Government and Regulators, Peer companies, Customers, Suppliers, NGOs 2025 Recycling Coca-Cola System-owned & operated packaging collection facility Absolute in tonnes 2025 2024 Collect 1,000 metric tonnes of packaging materials Downstream/Nigeria In 2024, together with TCCC, the Coca-Cola system-owned packaging collection facility was completed NGOs, Communities, Local municipalities. Government and Regulators, Peer companies >2025 Recycling Paper Bricks Absolute in % Continue (rolling target) n/a Source all our paper-based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources Upstream/Global 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) used are FSC-certified Suppliers >2030 – Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 126 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Strategy SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model S2.SBM-3_01, 02, 03, 05, 06 At CCHBC, all value chain workers who may be materially impacted by our operations are included in the scope of disclosures under ESRS 2. This encompasses addressing impacts linked to our own operations and value chain, including those arising from our products, services and business relationships. We specifically report on key areas such as secure employment, adequate wages, health and safety, gender equality, equal pay for work of equal value, and training and skills development. Types of value chain workers We consider value chain workers, workers working on our sites, but who are not part of own workforce, i.e., who are not self-employed workers or workers provided by third-party undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities. In essence: • They are outsourced to a separate company that manages its own staff; • Coca-Cola HBC does not directly control the workers; instead, it has a business relationship with the service provider; • The responsibility for managing and employing the workers lies with the service provider, even if the work is performed at CCHBC’s premises; • The external service provide retains responsibility for hiring, managing and supervising, and CCHBC has a business relationship with the service provider, not the individual workers. Examples include pickers and forklift drivers in our warehouses, workers sorting our empty reusable bottles at our plant facilities, cleaning services workers and workers working at our wastewater treatment facilities in the plants and drivers of the delivery trucks by our outsourced logistics. We also consider value chain workers, a variety of workers in the supply base that execute various activities either in an office context or within the agricultural sector and industrial sectors. Our supply base focus is Tier 1 suppliers and aspire to cover for the Tier 2 or below suppliers through the Supplier’s commitment on SGPs or PSA in the case of agricultural ingredients. In Coca-Cola HBC, 100% of vendors must acknowledge acceptance of CCH SGPs before they can proceed to work with us across sectors and sourcing categories and are monitored on compliance through various tools depending on complexity and criticality of their operations. Specifically, the Strategic Group Suppliers, we actively ask them to confirm ESG compliance including social and human rights attributes, for their critical supply base, i.e. T2 layer or below for CCH. This equally includes white and blue collar works across industries. Specifically for agricultural suppliers, we aspire to cover 100% of our supply base through PSA certifications provided by third-party specialists, which are specifically covering through audits, the practices of farmers and their positioning towards workers of the land such as SAI FSA, ISCC Plus, BONSUCRO, REDcert2, Rainforest Alliance, FairTrade International, Global GAP+GRASP, Global GAP+FSA Add-On, UNILEVER SAC, etc. Our negative effect We have no widespread or systemic material negative impacts on value chain workers in contexts where we operate. Regardless of the high occupational health and safety standards we require by our contractors and service providers, we still report lost time accidents which is the reason to consider negative impact there. Any occupational health and safety incidents are individual. One value chain worker’s fatality was reported in 2024. The contractor lost-time incidents frequency rate (LTIFR) in 2024 is decreasing to 1.31 compared to 1.72 in 2023. ESRS S2 – Workers in the value chain Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 146 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-T_12 & E5-3_13 & E5.MDR-T_01 We have not changed any of our targets, as for us any sustainability target means to deliver, to execute – an opposite of an aspirational target. The Single Use Plastics Directive, which was introduced after our 2025 commitments, applies only to EU Member States. However, we have voluntarily extended these commitments to include our other markets, ensuring they reflect our entire value chain. E5-3_13 & E5.MDR-T_09 The Single Use Plastics Directive imposed in 2019 a 77% separate collection target of PET beverage bottles by 2025 and a recycled content target of 25% in PET beverage bottles. For our collection targets, these were set in 2018, following a previous commitment of 40% total packaging collected by 2020, which we had already overachieved in 2018. For 2025, we have set ambitious targets as an average for all our markets. Not all markets are in the EU, therefore the 75% on average was much more ambitious than the Single Use Plastic Directive or any other local targets. The Single Use Plastic Directive also only defines collection for PET bottles whereas we are going beyond this, including all our primary packaging (such as glass bottles and aluminium cans). For recycled content, this is also above Single Use Plastic Directive targets for 2025. E5.MDR-T_13 We have specialised software to monitor and review for each of our ESG goals/targets, and we report monthly the actual performance and status (if we are on track, lagging behind or partly on track) to the members of the ELT who are accountable for the respective KPIs. The actuals are easily available in our EDGE dashboards. Quarterly, the performance and the related actions to achieve the annual goals are reported to the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors. E5.MDR-T_10 & E5.MDR-T_11 We have also involved our stakeholders in the process of target-setting. We use the industry best practices for setting the targets and clearly describe the calculations and methods used in our internal guidebooks. Feedback by NGOs, industry associations such as UNESDA, and suppliers, but also strategic initiatives such as the UN SDGs, are considered. Stakeholder engagement is pivotal, particularly through Annual Stakeholder Forums and frequent meetings with all relevant stakeholders (NGOs, peer companies, customers, municipalities). The insights gathered from these engagements, along with the expectations of ESG raters and investors, inform the setting of ambitious, data-driven targets. E5-3_08 We strive to minimise food loss and food waste in our operations. Our target to tackle food waste and loss across our activities and operations is: to decrease our absolute food losses (in dry matter) by 30% by 2025 compared to our 2019 baseline despite volume growth, an increase in portfolio/beverage categories, and expansion to emerging markets, and further reduce by 40% by 2030 vs 2019. Food loss and waste at our manufacturing sites are part of the overall waste management process. We strive to reach 100% recycled waste and zero waste to landfill in manufacturing. We have reduced the percentage of manufacturing waste going to landfill significantly: in 2024, only 1.6% of our manufacturing waste went to landfill, while in 2015 it was 10.1%. This means in 2024 98.4% of total manufacturing waste was recycled or used for alternative usage.. E5-4 Resource inflows E5-4_01 Resource inflows, relevant to upstream activities and reported within this chapter, take into account the results of the materiality analysis. This analysis has identified packaging inflows as a material topic. Our packaging inflows include different streams of packaging, such as: • Plastic, which is used for plastic bottles, closures, HDPE/LDPE bottles, labels and stretch/shrink films; • Glass, which is used for glass bottles; • Metal, which are used for aluminium cans and metal crowns; and • Paper, which is used for paper labels, composite aseptic carton, cardboard and wood pallets). All data relevant to our packaging inflows quantities that we used during the reporting period is disclosed in the following table. E5-4_02 – E5-4_05 Table 29: Material Inflows Indicators Parameters Unit 2024 The overall total weight of products (beverage+packaging) Tonnes 20,382,929 The overall total weight of technical materials used (ingredients + packaging materials) Tonnes 2,143,227 Total Plastic Tonnes 427,749 PET (bottles) Tonnes 346,143 Plant-Pet Tonnes 0 Plastic (closures + HDPE/LDPE bottles) Tonnes 30,268 PE (labels and stretch/shrink films) Tonnes 51,338 Total Glass Tonnes 193,285 Glass (Bottles) Tonnes 193,285 Total Metal Tonnes 80,508 Aluminium (cans) Tonnes 73,608 Metal (crowns) Tonnes 6,900 Total Paper Tonnes 153,133 Paper (labels) Tonnes 1,318 Composite carton (Tetra Pak, bricks) Tonnes 26,232 Cardboard Tonnes 72,788 Wood (pallets) Tonnes 52,795 Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 127 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued We aspire to secure correct practices towards supplier workers through the SGPs and PSA implementation. In Coca-Cola HBC, 100% of our suppliers are obliged to acknowledge and agree to the SGPs before obtaining the right to do business with us, while we apply different monitoring tools to track compliance depending on supplier category and impact to our business ranging from ESG performance tracking by means of tools such as EcoVadis IQ Plus all the way to full scale assessments such as EcoVadis Assessment, SEDEX and SGP physical audits. On agricultural level, we leverage our third-party specialists to conduct audits against the PSA principles, that are covering in an extensive manner all rules and requirements to secure farmer workers. Provision of social protection and social security Contractors who work on our premises are included in our programmes and workplace accountability audits, conducted within a three-year audit cycle. During these audits, they are assessed on human rights, and compliance with local minimum wage laws is verified by an external company. The workplace accountability audits cover various areas, including laws and regulations, wages and benefits, working hours and overtime, business Integrity, work environment, health and safety, environmental practices and demonstration of compliance. Occupational Health and Safety In the context of our implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Management System (ISO 45001), we take actions which have in scope value chain workers. We implement health and safety programmes, including Behavioural Based Safety and Life Saving Rules: • We enhanced our behaviour-based safety programme by embedding more human and operational principles across manufacturing and non-manufacturing locations. • We ensured Life Saving Rules are in place and incorporated in our cross-country verification programme. We conducted quarterly assessments of all manufacturing and non- manufacturing facilities. Based on these assessments, each country has developed its own corrective actions to address critical gaps and achieve full compliance. Value chain workers in greater risk of harm The service provided workers performing a job at our premises are part of the same rigorous hazardous analysis related to the occupational health and safety, as our employees, e.g., confined space work, work at height, electrical work, etc. Based on those analysis and based on the external occupational health and safety guidelines, we know the jobs that potentially can lead to severe OH&S incidents and thus we set up specific measures to mitigate the potential risks and avoid the incident to happen. Impact, risk and opportunity management S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers S2.MDR-P_01-06 & S2-1_06 The relevant policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters include our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), as well as our Supplier Guiding Principles, which have been adopted as part of ongoing effort to develop and strengthen our relationships with our direct suppliers. These policies cover all types of value chain workers mentioned in the previous section. Occupational Health and Safety Policy Please see S1.MDR-P_01-06 & S1-1_01, 02, 09, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 21 Supplier Guiding Principles Key contents of the policy The ‘Supplier Guiding Principles’ includes expectations regarding CCHBC’s suppliers to: • judge their employees and contractors based upon their ability to do their jobs and not upon their physical and/or personal characteristics or beliefs, affirming the principle of no discrimination based on race, colour, gender, age, religion, political opinion, national origin or sexual orientation; • provide a safe workplace with policies and practices in place to minimise the risk of accidents, injury and exposure to health risks; • compensate their employees fairly and competitively relative to their industry, in full compliance with applicable local and national wage and hour laws, and to offer opportunities for employees to develop their skills and capabilities, and to follow the principle of equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value. Objective Through this policy, we seek to develop relationships with suppliers that share similar values and conduct business in an ethical manner. Process for monitoring Regarding the process for monitoring this policy, in Coca-Cola HBC 100% of our supplier are obliged to acknowledge and agree to the SGPs before obtaining the right to do business with us, while we apply different monitoring tools to track compliance depending on supplier category and impact to our business. To this purpose we use various tools, ranging from EcoVadis IQ Plus all the way to full scale assessments such SGP physical audits, SEDEX and EcoVadis Assessment. We collaborate with TCCC, which routinely utilises independent third parties to assess suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Guiding Principles. The assessments include confidential interviews with employees and on-site contract workers. Scope As part of ongoing efforts to develop and strengthen our relationships with suppliers, we have adopted these Supplier Guiding Principles for use with our direct suppliers. Most senior level accountable for the implementation of the policy Each sustainability policy is approved by the CEO and the ELT and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board. The Chief Supply Chain Officer and Chief Procurement Officer are accountable for the implementation of the policy. Commitment to respect third-party standards We commit through the implementation of Supplier Guiding Principles to respect applicable laws and standards with respect to their operations (e.g., ILO Standards, etc.) Consideration given to the interests of key stakeholders in setting the policy In developing the SGP, we have considered international standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 45000, the ILO and the UN Principles. We have also considered the requirements of investors and ESG raters such as S&P Global, MSCI ESG and CDP as well as the practices of peer companies who are part of UNESDA and BIER (Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable). Additionally, we have incorporated good practices recommended by NGOs such as WWF, and input from our suppliers. Policy available to potentially affected stakeholders All policies are available on our website. At business unit level, they are translated and, additionally, suppliers are mandated to sign our SGP, which is included as part of our contracts. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 148 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
