"2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)(d) Economic activities Code(s)(a) CapEx Proportion of CapEx in 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) CapEx in 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitional activity CapEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1+A.2) (A) 575.9 63% 7% 57% - - - - 32% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES CapEx of Taxonomy- non-eligible activities (B) 331.4 37% TOTAL (A + B) 907.4 100% Information (a) - CCM for climate change mitigation; - CCA for climate change adaptation; - WTR for water and marine resources; - CE for circular economy; - PPC for pollution prevention and control; - BIO for biodiversity protection and ecosystems. (b) YES – Taxonomy-eligible activity and taxonomy-aligned in respect of the environmental objective; NO – Taxonomy-eligible activity but not taxonomy-aligned in respect of the environmental objective; N/EL – Not eligible: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity in respect of the environmental objective. (c) EL – Taxonomy-eligible activity in respect of the objective defined; N/EL – Taxonomy-non-eligible activity in respect of the objective defined. (d) For an activity to be reported in section A.1, all DNSH criteria and all minimum safeguards must be met. For activities identified under several environmental objectives in the taxonomy, the breakdown is as follows: Proportion of CapEx/total CapEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective Taxonomy-eligible per objective CCM 6% 7% CCA 4% 57% WTR - - CE - 0% PPC - - BIO - - c) Share of operating expenses (OpEx) associated with EU Taxonomy eligible activities OpEx as defined by the Taxonomy Regulation includes Research and Development expenditure, maintenance and repair costs and non-capitalised lease expenses. The overall amount of the Clariane Group’s operating expenses meeting the definition set out in the taxonomy represented 2.8% (unchanged from 2023) of total operating expenses for 2024, i.e., €117 million out of total operating expenses of €4,148 million (versus €109 million out of €3,971 million in 2023). As in 2023, the Group has chosen to apply the materiality exemption allowed by Paragraph 1.1.3.2 of Appendix I of the Delegated Regulation of July 2021. Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 111 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"Economic activities 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)(c) Code(s)(a) OpEx Proportion of OpEx in 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) OpEx in 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitional activity Currency % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) OpEx of the environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Of which enabling Of which transitional A.2 Taxonomy-eligible activities but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) OpEx of Taxonomy- eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy- aligned activities) (A.2) 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% OpEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1+A.2) (A) 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx of Taxonomy- non-eligible activities (B) 0 0% TOTAL (A + B) 117.1 100% Key (a) - CCM for climate change mitigation; - CCA for climate change adaptation; - WTR for water and marine resources; - CE for circular economy; - PPC for pollution prevention and control; - BIO for biodiversity protection and ecosystems. (b) YES – Taxonomy-eligible activity and taxonomy-aligned in respect of the environmental objective; NO – Taxonomy-eligible activity but not taxonomy-aligned in respect of the environmental objective; N/EL – Not eligible: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity in respect of the environmental objective. (c) EL – Taxonomy-eligible activity in respect of the objective defined; N/EL – Taxonomy-non-eligible activity in respect of the objective defined. (d) For an activity to be reported in section A.1, all DNSH criteria and all minimum safeguards must be met. 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 112 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"Proportion of OpEx/total OpEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective Taxonomy-eligible per objective CCM 0% 0% CCA 0% 0% WTR 0% 0% CE 0% 0% PPC 0% 0% BIO 0% 0% NUCLEAR ENERGY AND FOSSIL GAS ACTIVITIES NUCLEAR ENERGY RELATED ACTIVITIES 1 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. NO 2 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. NO 3 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. NO FOSSIL GAS RELATED ACTIVITIES 4 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 5 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 6 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels. NO Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 113 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"2024 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ESRSE1 CLIMATE CHANGE MATERIAL MATTERS MAIN POLICIES AND ACTIONS CLIMATE CHANGE ENERGY MANAGEMENT Mitigation: carbon emissions reduction targets aligned with the Paris Agreement Environmental and energy policy Employee training and awareness-raising Adaptation: climatic hazard exposure analysis for the real estate portfolio Adaptation of operating processes and real estate portfolio and equipment transformation plan 720,697 xáǝژ of energy consumed 100% of sites subject to a climatic hazard exposure analysis 148.67 kWh/sq.m./year in energy intensity 29.32 kgCOפe ɀȷِȅِٖɵƺƏȸژ energy-related carbon intensity -25% Total GHG emissions reduction target for 2030 (Scopes 1, 2 & 3) vs 2021 249,394 tCOפe potential reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 614,358 tCOפe Scopes 1, 2 & 3 2024 carbon footprint 3.2.2 Climate change (ESRS E1) • Group carbon footprint (2018 data) • First carbon roadmap for the energy consumption of buildings 2019 • Update of the JȸȒɖȵ !ƏȸƫȒȇ IȒȒɎȵȸǣȇɎي ƳƏɎƏ ǔȒȸ 202ב ƏȇƳ 202ג • Implementation of a tool for measuring and managing the carbon footprint • Validation of short-term reduction targets by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), of גהۏ Ȓȇ 3ƬȒȵƺɀ 1 ۭ 2 ƏȇƳ 2זۏ Ȓȇ 7בۏ Ȓǔ 3ƬȒȵƺ ב between 2021 and 2031 • Development of the Group's transition ȵǼƏȇِ !ȸƺƏɎǣȒȇ Ȓǔ Ɏǝƺ !ǼǣȅƏɎƺ !ȒȅȅǣɎɎƺƺً to monitor action plans for climate change mitigation 2024 2023 • Adoption of ȵɖȸȵȒɀƺٮƳȸǣɮƺȇ ƬȒȅȵƏȇɵ status, including a Sustainability target in its Articles of Association • 0ȇƺȸǕɵ ɎƏȸǕƺɎɀي ב0ۏ ȸƺƳɖƬɎǣȒȇ in energy consumption in facilities in 2026 vs 2021 • zȒ ȅȒȸƺ ɎǝƏȇ ד0ۏ ǔȒɀɀǣǼ ǔɖƺǼ in the Group's energy mix by 2026 • Joining the Science Based Targets ǣȇǣɎǣƏɎǣɮƺ ٢3BTǣ٣ and submitting emission reduction targets aligned with the Paris Agreement for 2031 Update of the Group's carbon footprint (2021 data) 2022 !( ̈ ƬǼǣȅƏɎƺ ƬǝƏȇǕƺ ɀƬȒȸƺي ( !( ̈ ƬǼǣȅƏɎƺ ƬǝƏȇǕƺ ɀƬȒȸƺي ! áƏɎƺȸي ( !( ̈ ƬǼǣȅƏɎƺ ƬǝƏȇǕƺ ɀƬȒȸƺي B 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 114 3ɖɀɎƏǣȇƏƫǣǼǣɎɵ 3ɎƏɎƺȅƺȇɎ ƏȇƳ (ɖɎɵ Ȓǔ !Əȸƺ ̈ǼƏȇ Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"The Group’s 2024 carbon footprint referred to in section 3.2.2 was calculated based on actual data for the footprint linked to energy consumption, and based on extrapolations drawn from the Group’s 2023 carbon footprint and changes in business data for other items. The carbon footprint is an estimated at 77% using a market-based methodology and at 76% using a location-based methodology. Full details of the 2024 carbon footprint along with the methodology used to calculate estimates are disclosed in section 3.2.2.5. 3.2.2.1 Transition plan and inclusion of climate objectives in variable compensation and financing schemes (ESRS E1-1 and ESRS 2 GOV-3) Given the material impacts identified and presented in section 3.2.2.2, and in line with the actions implemented as part of its previous 2019-2023 CSR roadmap, Clariane has defined a transition plan setting out its main climate change mitigation actions. Implementing the transition plan is part of the Group’s commitment to improving its environmental impact, which is one of its corporate objectives as a mission-led company and one of the five pillars of its CSR strategy. The Clariane Group is committed to increasing the transparency of its climate publications. Driven by this aim, it is gradually building its transition plan for climate change mitigation. The structure of this plan is presented below, along with the data already available in this regard. These include a qualitative assessment of the investments and operating expenditure required to implement the transition plan, with detailed figures for 2024 and 2025. This transition plan will be supplemented in accordance with the ESRS regarding significant investments and operating expenses for the implementation of the action plans over the period 2026 to 2030. The Group is working on gradually improving the completeness and accuracy of its published data in order to align its reporting with regulatory requirements and industry best practice. The main items of the Group’s 2024 carbon footprint, accounting for 66% of emissions, are as follows: • Energy: the footprint relates to the energy consumed by the Group’s facilities for lighting, heating, ventilation, air conditioning and hot water, and for operating equipment. Initiatives to reduce the energy footprint are aimed at improving the energy efficiency of buildings and optimising energy use, as well as diversifying the energy sources used in order to increase the share of renewable energy in the Group’s energy mix. • Catering: the Group’s residential facilities are living spaces, so patients and residents eat their meals there. These meals are mainly cooked on site. The catering footprint is linked to the volume and type of food raw materials purchased, how these raw materials are grown and where they come from. Actions to reduce the food footprint focus on the design of menus, the primary objectives of which are to provide enjoyment and appropriate nutritional intake, and to reduce food waste. • Construction: new facilities and extensions to existing facilities generate a footprint relating to the resources used for materials and construction work, as well as to the use of the building over its lifetime. In 2025, the Group will work on more accurately determining the contribution made to the construction footprint and to reducing its impact through the choice of materials and construction methods, as well as the technical specifications of buildings and equipment. • Commuting: the Group employs more than 63,000 people (FTEs), the majority of whom work on site and therefore travel to and from work every day. This explains why commuting accounts for a significant share of the footprint – typically between 8% and 10%, depending on the year. The primary levers identified by the Group for reducing the related impacts are optimising journey distances, pooling journeys, supporting soft mobility and using low-carbon vehicles. Given the material nature of the Group’s indirect emissions (Scope 3 represents 80% of the 2024 carbon footprint) and its heavy reliance on collective decarbonisation levers requiring full or partial involvement of the Group’s business sector (83% of the levers according to the Shift Project’s “Decarbonising the Autonomy Sector” study), Clariane has focused on working towards a 2030 reduction target. Reduction targets beyond 2030 and for five-year periods up to 2050 will be set in the medium term on the basis of initial feedback from actions taken to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, particularly for Scope 3. To define its transition plan targets, the Group used Shared Socio-Economic Pathways SSP1-1.6 and 2.9 scenarios set out by the IPCC in its sixth assessment report for limiting global warming to well below 2°C by 2100. These targets have been calculated using the Absolute Contraction Approach in relation to the 2021 base year. Scenario 2026 vs 2021 reduction 2030 vs 2021 reduction 2031 vs 2021 reduction Total Clariane GHG emissions (Scopes 1, 2 & 3) SSP1-2.9 (WB 2°C) -15% -25% -28% Scopes 1 & 2 GHG emissions SSP1-1.6 (1.5°C) -27% -43% -46% Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 115 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"For 2025, investments planned in the budgets and identified as contributing to the Group’s energy transition, whether financed directly or by third parties (for example under energy efficiency contracts), are estimated at between €23 million and €31 million for the Group as a whole. 2024 2025 Sources of expenditure allocated to decarbonisation actions financed by the Group or third parties (€m) 18.7 23-31 Alignment of these sources of expenditure with the environmental taxonomy 0% 0% More than 12 of the Group’s FTEs are responsible for implementing the actions of the energy transition plan within different functions (management, technical, real estate, maintenance, processes and tools, etc.). Based on a qualitative assessment of material CapEx and OpEx linked to individual actions under the transition plan (see summary below), material CapEx and OpEx were identified by type of expenditure. GHG Protocol classification Name of category/ sub-category Description of decarbonisation leverl Material CapEx/OpEx related to the implementation of the transition plan Comments SCOPES 1 & 2 1-1 Direct emissions from stationary combustion sources 2-1 Indirect emissions from electricity consumption 2-2 Indirect emissions from consumption of steam, heating and cooling 3-3 Emissions from fuel- and energy- related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) Energy Increasing the share of renewable energies in the energy mix Yes An initial quantification was drawn up with the help of an energy consultancy. This will be fine-tuned as the technical studies progress, ahead of confirming the related financing. The Group’s preferred financing model is third-party financing: • Signing energy efficiency contracts with specialised companies, where guaranteed energy savings over a long period ensure the financing of the investment in these facilities and the maintenance of their performance. • Partnerships with property owners, which can contribute financially to the implementation of structural measures in facilities (insulation, replacing heating systems, etc.). • Signing Power Purchase Agreements (PPA), particularly covering on-site (on-site PPA) or virtual (vPPA) solar power production systems. • Third-party financing or purchase of assets for specific projects (installing LED systems in particular). • Grants and subsidies linked to energy savings (e.g., energy saving certificates in France). Reducing energy consumption volumes 1-2 Direct emissions from mobile combustion sources Fuel burned in company vehicles Electrifying company vehicles No as regards deployment of the fleet Yes as regards the installation of electric charging points at all facilities Implementation of an electrification strategy for company vehicles is already underway in France and Germany. Replacing and converting the fleet to electric vehicles has been evaluated on an identical cost basis. The gradual installation of electric charging points at all our facilities can represent a significant CapEx item. However, this can be smoothed out over several years and, depending on local regulations, may be eligible for subsidies. 1-4 Direct fugitive emissions Refrigerant fluids Using less emissive fluids No Guidelines for equipment replacement and recharging are provided to operating departments to encourage the use of less emissive fluids. Emissive fluids are gradually being withdrawn from the market as a result of regulations. Reducing the use and/or intensity of air conditioning No Awareness-raising initiatives are carried out for technical managers and guidelines are issued on air-conditioning levels in line with health regulations; compliance with these guidelines is monitored through existing building management systems. 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 120 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"GHG Protocol classification Name of category/ sub-category Description of decarbonisation leverl Material CapEx/OpEx related to the implementation of the transition plan Comments SCOPE 3 3-1 Purchased goods and services Purchases Selecting suppliers based on environmental impact and other criteria Potential additional costs A CSR criteria matrix including environmental impact criteria, to be used by buyers in calls for tender, was rolled out in 2024, together with training for buyers in the use of the tool. Selecting suppliers who meet higher environmental standards could lead to higher costs. Catering Introducing vegetarian meals Analysis pending Analysis to be carried out on the basis of pilot schemes run in France and Italy in which menus are changed in order to increase the proportion of food with lower emissions, while respecting the nutritional intake and tastes of residents and patients. Laundry Choosing linen that is produced and used with lower emissions Potential additional costs Criteria included in calls for tender by buyers on the basis of the CSR criteria matrix deployed in 2024. Supplier dialogue and contractual commitments to be secured. Selecting suppliers who meet higher environmental standards could lead to higher costs. Reducing the energy intensity of laundry operations No Supplier dialogue and contractual commitments to be secured for outsourced laundry operations (most operations), eco-efficiency of machines used and eco-friendly practices for laundry managed in-house. 3-2 Capital goods Buildings Reducing the impact of buildings through requirements and criteria in specifications (construction materials and methods, etc.) Analysis pending An analysis is planned for 2025 to identify and quantify the technical decarbonisation levers for buildings, together with an adaptation of the specifications applied by the Group for its new buildings. Furniture Extending the lifespan of furniture used No Analysis to be carried out on lifespans and replacement periods by type of furniture. Supplier selection to include or develop criteria on maintenance, reparability and quality of materials, based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024. Including eco-designed product references for furniture and medical equipment Potential additional costs Studies and referencing to be carried out by the interior architecture, medical and purchasing departments. Selection criteria used in calls for tender to be based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024, which includes eco-design criteria. Selecting suppliers who meet higher environmental standards could lead to higher costs. IT equipment Extending the lifespan of IT equipment No Analysis to be carried out on lifespans and replacement periods by type of IT equipment. Supplier selection to include or develop criteria on maintenance, reparability and obsolescence, based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024. Choosing IT equipment based on its carbon impact Potential additional costs IT supplier selection and referencing to include or develop environmental impact criteria, based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024. Selecting suppliers who meet higher environmental standards could lead to higher costs. Company vehicle fleet Choosing vehicles with lower emissions (more compact) No Criteria regarding the size of vehicles in the company fleet. 3-4 Upstream transportation and distribution Freight Optimising distances and pooling freight for deliveries to facilities No Operational guidelines to be distributed to facilities to group together orders from the same supplier; discussions with suppliers on their practices for optimising delivery distances. Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 121 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"GHG Protocol classification Name of category/ sub-category Description of decarbonisation leverl Material CapEx/OpEx related to the implementation of the transition plan Comments 3-5 Waste generated in operations Waste Reducing waste produced: use of plastic bottles, paper, packaging, biowaste, etc. No Continue to raise awareness and monitor waste reduction and sorting practices in facilities. Analysis of alternatives to single-use products to be carried out in the various businesses. Supplier selection to include and develop criteria regarding product packaging, based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024. Preferring composting over methanisation of biowaste Potential additional costs Selection of biowaste collection service providers on the basis of the waste treatment methods applied. Potential additional costs would arise from the introduction of biowaste collection for facilities/ countries that do not yet have this system and from a change in treatment method if the current system involves methanisation. Redirecting some residual waste for composting No Continue to raise awareness and monitor waste reduction and sorting practices in facilities. Initiatives to be carried out in terms of the development of new waste channels. 3-6 Business travel Business travel Reducing business travel No Adapt travel policies to reduce the volume of business travel and ensure the use of low-carbon modes of transport wherever possible. 3-7 Commuting Commuting Encouraging the use of public transport Potential additional costs Generalise incentives to use public transport (such as partial reimbursement by the employer, as adopted in France, although this could generate potential additional costs). Develop initiatives to reduce the distance between home and work wherever possible. Encouraging car pooling No Development of offers and partnerships and acting as a liaison point in order to encourage employees to adopt car pooling using their personal or company vehicles to get to work. The environmental taxonomy framework does not allow the Group to assess all mitigation actions carried out and referred to in ESRS E1. This is because the Group’s core business is caring for those in need and most of its revenue is earned in exchange for personal services, care and medical treatment provided to people in vulnerable situations. Clariane primarily has a social purpose, and this can only be assessed under the social taxonomy, which has not yet been drawn up by the European authorities. To date, only the environmental taxonomy has been codified (EU Taxonomy Regulation 2020/852). Work to define a social taxonomy is still ongoing, and no timetable has been set as yet. As a result, the Group has not set a target for aligning its turnover (revenue), OpEx and CapEx with the environmental taxonomy. This is due to the fact that: • the text of the environmental taxonomy only allows for the recognition of revenue from property rentals and sales under Activity 12.1 “Residential care activities” related to the climate change adaptation objective. Accordingly, revenue from caring for residents and patients, the Group’s core business, is excluded; • the materiality exemption is applied to OpEx that meet the taxonomy definition as they are not material; • for the 2024 taxonomy reporting, only CapEx over the €0.8 million threshold was analysed, making it impossible to obtain an accurate picture of all eligible CapEx. The Group expects its CapEx alignment to increase going forward, in line with the internal work carried out on the granularity of analysis by type of CapEx, enabling in particular CapEx contributing to decarbonisation to be monitored and individual measures to be assessed from 2025 onwards. Work in progress on centralising data relating to the Group’s real estate portfolio – and in particular building specifications – will also facilitate alignment analysis. 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 122 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"3.2.2.2 Material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1 and SBM-3) Material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities are listed in ESRS 2 IRO-1 and SBM-3 and are summarised in the table below. The Group’s exposure to transition risks has been analysed and incorporated into the Group’s double materiality assessment. One transition risk, relating to the rise in energy costs linked to the volatility of raw material prices, was assessed as material. Material impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) Description Timeframe/ Scope Description (clarifications provided in addition to those presented in section 3.1.3.3 (ESRS 2 SBM-3)) CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Negative impact Impact on ecosystems and human health from carbon emissions generated by the Group’s operations and value chain. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • Details of carbon emissions related to the Group’s operations are provided in section 3.2.2.5. In all, Scope 3 accounts for 80% of the Group’s carbon footprint, with energy and catering the biggest emitters. • Carbon emissions contribute to climate change, which impacts the living conditions essential to human health, for example direct or indirect effects on temperatures, biodiversity and the water cycle. CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION Negative impact Difficulty maintaining the quality of care for residents and patients along with working conditions for employees in the event of extreme weather events. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • Depending on their scale, these events may affect business continuity or downgrade the level of care provided if facilities can no longer partly or fully operate. Operational processes designed to anticipate and manage such events are detailed in section 3.2.2.3.2. ENERGY MANAGEMENT Positive impact Reducing energy consumption volumes and moving towards low-carbon energy consumption for the Group’s activities. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • These actions aim to reduce the consumption of resources used by the Group for its business, the carbon emissions associated with this consumption and the Group’s dependence on fossil fuels. • The objectives and actions linked to this energy transition, which implies changes in terms of energy purchases, consumption tracking, equipment, operational processes and training, are detailed in section 3.2.2.3.1. Positive impact Energy management criteria applied to suppliers. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • The choice of suppliers and energy contracts contributes to achieving the objectives of decarbonising energy consumption, while the environmental criteria used to select suppliers of goods and services help to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint and therefore its impact. • Bringing suppliers on-board is essential if the Group is to achieve its climate mitigation objectives. Risk Rising energy costs due to volatile raw material prices. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • Rising energy costs affect the Group’s management of direct operating expenses. • Reducing energy consumption volumes and securing supplies at costs negotiated through PPAs for example (see section 3.2.2.3.1), represent measures designed to reduce the Group’s exposure to this risk. Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 123 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"3.2.2.3 Policies, actions, indicators and targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (ESRS E1-2, E1-3, E1-4) The Group’s commitment to reducing its carbon footprint by adapting its facilities and operational processes has been formalised in its environmental and energy policy stemming from the 2024-2028 CSR strategy. It represents a direct application of one of the five objectives underlying its corporate purpose, namely the sustainability and protection of the living environment of its communities. This policy applies to all the Group’s countries of operation and activities, and is set out in contracts between the Group and its commercial partners. The functions represented in the Group’s Climate Committee are specifically responsible for implementing the climate change mitigation and adaptation targets set out in this policy. Their implementation is monitored together with other sustainability matters by the Board of Directors’ Ethics, Quality and CSR Committee and by the CSR Steering Committee chaired by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer. The policy is implemented by Group and local management teams in the respective strategies of each functional community, and is based on their ownership of the targets. To involve its employees in its objectives of reducing its footprint in line with the Paris Agreement, the Group has set up awareness-raising and training initiatives aimed at developing the expertise of its governance bodies and functional communities in relation to climate change. The following actions were carried out in 2024: • providing training for the Board of Directors and General Management in planetary boundaries and new business models; • organising Climate Fresk workshops in each of the Group’s regional offices in France, and every month at Clariane’s head office (130 participants in the workshops and 10 people trained to become internal Climate Fresk facilitators) and dedicated awareness-raising sessions with the European Company Works Council; • launching dedicated online training modules (Clariane Sustainability School) for certain functional communities and CSR ambassadors; • including a dedicated module addressing these issues in the manager onboarding programme; • staging specific events during sustainable development week, with the organisation of a Climate Pitch, a webinar for sharing testimonies and initiatives at facility level, and themed events run by facilities in France, as well as a photo competition on climate change in facilities across all Group countries. For details of the plan to develop the sustainability expertise of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies, as well as the Group functional departments and the country functional and operational divisions, see section 3.1.2.1. 3.2.2.3.1 Climate change mitigation In terms of reducing its impact, the Group initially focused on emissions linked to its energy consumption (categories 1-1, 2-1, 2-2 and 3-3 of the GHG Protocol), representing decarbonisation levers in its transition plan, which it began to implement in 2021. The Group has set itself two targets to reduce the impact of its energy consumption by 2026: • reduce its total energy consumption by 30%, based on 2021 consumption volumes, by adapting its practices, equipment and buildings; • reduce the share of fossil fuels in its energy mix to less than 50%. These are intermediate targets that guarantee a reduction in the Group’s Scopes 1 and 2 carbon emissions exceeding that required by Clariane’s SBTi trajectory for Scopes 1 and 2. Progress is monitored each month, in particular using a centralised tool for consolidating energy consumption, in order to check that the targets set for reducing the energy footprint are being met. The operational actions and their impacts on reducing energy consumption and the associated greenhouse gas emissions have been identified and assessed from a technical and financial perspective. They have been included in Group- and country-level roadmaps for deployment in the short, medium and long term and are described below: Preventive and corrective maintenance: • new equipment and maintenance operations to reduce energy consumption: installation of thermostatic heads on radiators (controlled or uncontrolled), network balancing, flushing, etc. Regarding the replacement of equipment and the selection of local supply sources: • replacing heat production systems: • installing high-efficiency boilers, • installing heat pumps, • connecting to heating networks. Regarding thermal renovation: • in some facilities, large-scale energy refurbishment projects (e.g., exterior insulation, replacement of windows and doors) can be carried out in partnership with the site owner to finance the work. Regarding the use of low-carbon energy: • installing photovoltaic systems for low-carbon electricity generation; • purchasing renewable energy certificates in Spain (electricity) and the Netherlands (electricity) so that a proportion of the energy mix has a guarantee of origin. Performance monitoring and management: • conducting energy audits on some facilities; • installing ambient temperature sensors and LoRa (Long Range) data reporting systems, as was done on several hundred sites in France, Germany and Italy in 2024; 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 124 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
