"E1 More information on page 178 onward Climate change adaptation Negative, transition Long-term BASF’s own operations Rising product prices, and/or production costs and/or lower market growth Lower-emission production using raw materials with reduced carbon footprints and renewable energy increases production costs and ultimately also product prices. Coupled with societal pressure to consume less, this could lead to lower market growth. Climate change adaptation Negative, transition Medium, long- term BASF’s own operations Fragmentation in national and regional climate policy – and thus in the market Pronounced differences in the regulatory framework due to divergent regional climate policies pose particular strategic challenges for us as a globally active company. Climate change adaptation Negative, transition Long-term BASF’s own operations Regulatory volatility leading to competitive risks Political regulations designed to mitigate climate change, such as those set out in the EU Green Deal, could represent a competitive risk for us due to higher costs, for example as a result of administrative effort, and a high level of volatility. Climate change adaptation Positive, transition Long-term BASF’s own operations Market opportunities through climate- smart products Our broad product portfolio includes, among other things, solutions for the circular economy and climate change mitigation. Increasing societal demands and resulting regulations would offer additional market opportunities for these products. Energy Negative, transition Short-, medium-, long-term BASF’s own operations Rising energy costs due to climate- related regulations For BASF as an energy-intensive company, risks arise particularly from regulatory changes such as in carbon pricing on emissions trading systems, in taxes and in energy legislation. Energy Positive, transition Short-, medium-, long-term BASF’s own operations Renewable energy opens up opportunities for cheaper or otherwise more advantageous procurement. Investments in own power assets and long-term supply contracts reduce dependencies on volatile global markets and lead to comparatively lower CO2 abatement and energy procurement costs. E2 More information on page 205 onward Water pollution Negative Medium, long- term BASF’s own operations Increased costs for water treatment due to regulatory changes. Regulatory developments concerning emissions to water may require investments in our infrastructure and upgrades to our systems. Substances of concern or of very high concern Negative Medium-term BASF’s own operations Regulations with respect to substances of (very high) concern may have a negative impact on the market, for procurement, BASF’s own production or sales. Regulatory changes on substances of concern or of very high concern, such as their restriction, may limit the availability of relevant raw materials and negatively impact market behavior and customer acceptance. E3 More information on page 221 onward Wastewater discharge Negative Medium, long- term BASF’s own operations Increased costs for water treatment due to regulatory changes Regulatory developments concerning emissions to water may require investments in our infrastructure and upgrades to our systems. E4 More information on page 231 onward Impacts on the state of species Negative Short-, medium-, long-term BASF’s own operations Regulatory requirements for the marketing of chemicals Regulatory developments, prompted by actual or anticipated impacts of our products on the state of species, their population sizes or their risk of extinction, impact our opportunities to market chemicals. Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Opportunities and risks ESRS standard Topic/subtopic in the standard Evaluation/ classification Time horizon (short-, medium-, long-term) Placement in the value chain Material opportunities and risks Short description of material opportunities and risks At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 176"
"S1 More information on page 270 onward Secure employment Negative Short-, medium- term BASF’s own operations Secure employment The macroeconomic situation, combined with structural adjustments at BASF, may unsettle employees and pose challenges in terms of employee retention and engagement. Training and skill development Negative Short-, medium-, long-term BASF’s own operations Skills development and recruitment of skilled employees Changing skill profiles and intensified global competition for skilled employees and leaders due to demographic and technological change can lead to a loss of skills and knowledge in our workforce or affect our ability to adequately and quickly develop them. S3 More information on page 303 onward Other social and economic rights Negative Short-, medium-, long-term BASF’s own operations Loss of societal acceptance due to potential adverse effects on the health of people and communities In the event of negative impacts on communities, societal acceptance of our business activities could suffer in the short to long term, trust could be lost in BASF and the risk of litigation could increase. Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Opportunities and risks ESRS standard Topic/subtopic in the standard Evaluation/ classification Time horizon (short-, medium-, long-term) Placement in the value chain Material opportunities and risks Short description of material opportunities and risks At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 177"
"Environment E1 Climate Change1 ESRS E1 As an energy-intensive company, we take responsibility for the efficient use of energy and global climate protection, and are committed to the Paris Agreement. We are determined to follow the path toward climate neutrality and to enable our customers’ green transformation by providing low-emission chemistry. ESRS 2 IRO-1 ESRS 2 SBM-3 Our business activities result in the production of greenhouse gas emissions,2 which have a negative impact on the climate. These are emissions from our production, our energy procurement and our upstream and downstream value chain. We are working to achieve a considerable reduction in these emissions along the entire value chain. This also creates opportunities for our business activities: Thanks to our transformation toward climate neutrality, we can increasingly offer our customers products with a reduced Product Carbon Footprint (PCF). Resilience and scenario analyses At the same time, we have to position our business in line with the consequences of climate change and to create resilience. As a company that is active in a very wide variety of different regions and business areas, we take a diversified approach to climate change adaptation. We use our TripleS method (Sustainable Solution Steering, see page 161) to continuously review the resilience of our product portfolio with respect to environmental and social matters. We do this by categorizing our products into different segments. This enables us to quantify and steadily increase the proportion of products that contribute to sustainability. At the same time, products facing substantial regulatory, customer-specific or sustainability challenges are identified and removed from our portfolio within five years. As part of our business strategy development, we also examine the medium- to long-term resilience of our business models from an ecological, economic and social perspective, and with a view to their impacts, risks and opportunities. As regards climate change, this process only looks at transition risks and opportunities – we analyze physical climate risks and existing resilience centrally for our sites (see page 180). In 2024, we started embedding resilience analysis in our processes to a greater extent. The primary focus here is on our own business. The strategies of our business units are updated on a regular basis. This is done either individually at business unit level or as part of the overarching divisional strategy, and involves specialists from the business unit or operating division concerned and from our central strategy unit. In 2024, we piloted a method to address material topics in the strategies of the At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 178 1 Unless otherwise stated, all metrics in the text comply with the consolidation by financial control approach (see also the disclosures on consolidation for the nonfinancial reporting on page 151). The metrics listed in this section on the target-relevant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are part of the statutory audit and have been audited with reasonable assurance. 2 The terms “greenhouse gas emissions” and “CO2 emissions” are used synonymously. They include all greenhouse gases in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol."
"business units with a view to the next ten years.3 Depending on the extent of the strategy revision, resilience reviews, regulatory aspects and stakeholder expectations can be included to estimate future market developments. Upstream and downstream value chains can also be taken into account. At the same time, climate-related transition risks are captured as part of our strategic controlling process. For example, this allowed us to identify the influence of emissions trading schemes as a risk and changes in demand for more sustainable products as an opportunity. We also performed a comprehensive analysis of the resilience of the plants at our largest site in Ludwigshafen, Germany, in the past year. We consider a large proportion of our plants to be well positioned and competitive going forward. A short- to medium-term competition risk was identified for 16% of the plants.4 Specific measures – which can also include their closures – are already being implemented for these plants so as to increase site profitability. We have identified a long-term risk for 6% of the plants, which we address through market-based measures.4 We use a variety of scenarios for future macroeconomic development in our strategy development and risk management (for more information on these scenarios, see the section on climate-related transition on page 180). In contrast to the assumptions made when analyzing physical climate risks, the scenarios that we use here limit global warming to different extents. Using multiple scenarios addresses and minimizes uncertainties regarding expected developments and enables us to determine risks associated with different future developments. The chemical industry, which is the start of many value chains, can play a key role in the transformation process. Growing electrification – including of our own plants – will considerably increase the need for energy from renewable sources going forward. At the same time, the use of fossil raw materials will decline and the circular economy will become more important. Our business units regularly analyze the opportunities and risks arising from the scenarios, including, where possible, their financial impacts. In strategy development, scenario impacts are largely examined from a qualitative perspective during assessment. We use a multistage process to review the economic efficiency of investment decisions. The metrics used in this process are calculated for different scenarios, highlighting differences that may affect the decisions. We also use opportunities and risks relating to environmental and social matters to evaluate projects. In addition, we regularly review planned CO2 abatement strategies. We have identified measures when implementing our strategy that will enable low-emission plant operation in the long term. The necessary access to funding as part of the transformation is assisted by our Green Finance Framework. BASF has published a comprehensive corporate carbon footprint every year since 2008. This reports on all greenhouse gas emissions along the value chain – from raw materials extraction to production and subsequent disposal. We regularly analyze the future development of our emissions. Additional greenhouse gas emissions resulting from business expansion are determined as early as the project assessment phase. We build on these to capture the current and future impacts that our business has on climate change. Climate change poses challenges for us but also offers opportunities for our business activities that enhance the resilience of our business models. For example, our products and solutions contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in many areas. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 179 3 The time periods considered in the resilience analysis described here only correspond exactly to those of the transition risk analysis. Our climate protection targets for 2030 are within the period under review. We consider physical climate risks and corresponding resilience over a longer period of time, as these only have an impact in the long term. 4 The figures correspond to the time horizons used by BASF in the course of the assessment (short-term: until 2026, medium-term: until 2030, long-term: after 2030)."
"Climate-related physical and transition risks We systematically assess physical and transition influences to identify and assess material climate- related risks and opportunities. When assessing our production sites for physical climate risks, we focus on material sites that make a relevant contribution to our business and our portfolio. The assessment is performed on the basis of climate data from the current Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) scenarios, which were compiled together with an external partner. In the process, we focus on a climate protection scenario with a high level of global warming.5 This data helps to analyze the potential impacts that climate change could have on the production sites in the coming decades. Our assessment addresses both current risks and long-term risks with a time horizon of 30 years. If long-term risks are identified, we examine whether they also represent a medium-term risk. Physical climate risks are assessed using geographical coordinates at site level. In a first step, a qualitative assessment is performed and sensitivities to various climate risks are prioritized so as to obtain an initial indication of potential material risks. Sensitivity analysis takes both internal and external factors into account. Internal factors comprise the resilience of plants, infrastructure, operations and services. External factors comprise the external infrastructure, water, energy and raw materials supplies, wastewater treatment and the dispatch of finished goods. In addition, the assessment considers risks affecting the entire site and, where relevant, individual plants or specific parts of the site. We anticipate that most sites will be particularly affected by increasing heat and drought, whereas some may be faced with heavy precipitation and a few could also be exposed to risks in connection with flooding, hail, water stress and wildfires. Where risks are estimated to be in excess of €10 million, potential material losses are quantified and an adaptation plan is drawn up. Targeted site- and business-specific measures can involve optimizing process flows and infrastructure, for example. Based on our assessment in the reporting year, we consider our sites to be well positioned for climate change. However, the transportation of key raw materials and products depends materially on water levels on the River Rhine, for example, especially in the critical Middle Rhein region. An extreme drought could significantly impact transportation, or even bring it to a standstill. We are currently working to more precisely determine the scope of materiality of this risk and the sites affected. We have already taken measures to counteract this risk (see page 224). With respect to transition climate risks and opportunities, global climate policy ambitions and the implementation of relevant measures play a decisive role in the continuing growth of the chemical industry and its customer industries. Consequently, we have worked together with an external partner using an empirical simulation model to define and quantify global long-term scenarios up to 2050 featuring various global warming paths. In addition, a net-zero scenario in the EU and the United States by 2050, and globally by 2060, was also analyzed, which limits global warming to 1.5°C. The fundamental drivers for the scenarios are different societal preferences and, building on these, climate and economic policy objectives. To assess the impact of different global climate policy approaches on our business units, the scenarios are discussed by the business units in workshops. Feedback is incorporated into the ongoing development of the scenarios. The resulting risks were reviewed for materiality as part of the double materiality assessment. Going forward, the material transition risks identified at Group level will be systematically examined by our business units and quantified if possible, and countermeasures will be taken where necessary. Adaptation measures can include modifying our product portfolio, investments in new technologies or enhancing existing technologies. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 180 5 The assessment model was based on the IPCC SSP5-8.5 climate change scenario (high global warming scenario) as the worst-case scenario."
"business requirements, we perform our own Responsible Care audits at selected contract manufacturers if material risks have been identified with respect to environmental protection. This also covers the topic of CO2 emissions. We launched the Supplier CO2 Management Program in 2021 to achieve transparency with respect to our raw materials-related emissions. The goal is to obtain a more accurate data base and to better manage and reduce emissions in the supply chain. In a first step, we have requested the Product Carbon Footprints (PCFs) of our raw materials since then and support our suppliers in determining these, for example, by sharing our knowledge of assessment and calculation methods with them. Since the start of the program, we have asked more than 1,900 suppliers, accounting for around 80% of our raw materials- related greenhouse gas emissions. After around three years, we have validated PCFs for more than 1,700 of our raw materials. This corresponds to a coverage of almost 30% in relation to the greenhouse gas emissions of our raw materials. We are working to further enhance the transparency of the PCFs for our raw materials. In addition, we launched the next phase of our Supplier CO2 Management Program in 2024, so as to agree PCF reduction pathways with our suppliers. We use dialog forums to exchange with suppliers about opportunities, challenges and BASF’s specific expectations regarding PCF reductions. One example are the BASF Supplier Days that were held on the topic of Scope 3.1 emissions for the first time in 2024 in Ludwigshafen, Germany (Europe Region) and São Paulo, Brazil (South America Region). The format is to be rolled out to regions Asia Pacific and North America as well in 2025. We are also enhancing our purchasing processes and establishing PCFs as a relevant criterion for raw materials in the procurement requirement. To replace fossil raw materials, we signed a long-term purchase contract for certified biomethane with ENGIE in 2024. This will be used at our Verbund sites in Antwerp, Belgium, and Ludwigshafen, Germany. Consequently, we will be able to reduce the carbon footprint of sales products in sectors such as the automotive, packaging and detergent industries using our mass balance approach (see page 250). In another project, we have agreed an innovative approach to reducing the carbon footprint of the products from Graphit Kropfmühl, a subsidiary of AMG Critical Materials N.V. We supply the company with Guarantees of Origins for electricity from renewable sources, reducing the PCF of the graphite produced. We then use the graphite as a raw material for a reduced-PCF variant of our insulation material Neopor®. In addition to reducing our raw materials-related emissions (Scope 3.1), we are taking targeted measures to reduce Scope 3 emissions along the entire value chain. To reduce the emissions from transporting our products (Scope 3.9), the Monomers division has developed a shipment emissions dashboard that enables us to share standardized, reliable data on shipment-related emissions with our customers and identify the most sustainable means of transportation. Moreover, we rely on product adaptations to reduce emissions from the use of sold products (Scope 3.11): For example, climate-damaging blowing agents for foaming polyurethane foams can now be largely dispensed within the downstream value chain. Thanks to these and other measures, we have been able to reduce our emissions from the use of sold products (Scope 3.11) by around 73% since 2018.21 We also want to reduce emissions resulting from the disposal of our products (Scope 3.12). This can be done, for example, through the increased use of renewable raw materials or circular solutions (see page 247). Both ensure that less and less CO2 pollutes the atmosphere throughout the life cycle of our products. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 193 21 BASF operations without oil and gas business"
"Product Carbon Footprints In 2024, we further expanded our portfolio of products with a certified reduced carbon footprint. These include ammonia and urea products and the intermediate butanediol, which our customers process in the manufacture of textile fibers, solvents and engineering plastics. Since the end of 2024, we are offering our customers bio-based and biomass balance-based ethyl acrylate – a more sustainable alternative for use in manufacturing adhesives and coatings, among other things. We already offer net- zero carbon footprint versions of some of our products; these include the polyamide Ultramid® and AdBlue®, an exhaust gas reducing agent for diesel engines, which we offer as Ultramid® ZeroPCF and AdBlue® ZeroPCF by BASF. These lower PCFs are primarily made possible by the substitution of fossil raw materials. For example, we use partially or fully renewable, waste-based or recycled raw materials to produce low PCF and zero PCF products. These include castor oil, biomethane or pyrolysis oil from plastic waste. These alternative resources often have a lower carbon footprint compared with fossil raw materials. The alternative resources are allocated to the end product using the mass balance approach (see page 250). Furthermore, we use electricity from renewable sources to reduce our PCFs. The digital methodology we have developed to calculate PCFs meets general life cycle analysis standards such as ISO 14040, ISO 14044 and ISO 14067, as well as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Product Standard. A certification from TÜV Rheinland confirms that our calculation method and reporting fully comply with the requirements of Together for Sustainability (TfS). We make our automated PCF calculation approach available to interested industry players through partnerships. At the same time, we are involved in various initiatives to drive transparency, harmonization and standardization across the industry. This also takes place as part of TfS, where we have been involved in the creation and revision of a uniform guideline for calculating the carbon footprint of products in the chemical industry. This enables the climate impact of products to be directly compared and evaluated based on a standardized approach. Harmonizing the approaches used to calculate PCFs allows us to better steer greenhouse gas emissions that arise during the extraction of raw materials or the manufacture of precursors. A digital solution developed by TfS and Siemens for sharing PCF data between companies was launched in October 2024. We have been migrating our queries to this solution since the end of 2024. Equally, it has been possible to share data within the Catena-X network, in which we work together with partners in the automotive value chain, since 2024. » For more information on Product Carbon Footprints, see basf.com/en/pcf Global targets E1-4 As an energy-intensive company that generates and consumes energy in the form of electricity and steam and that processes fossil raw materials, we are responsible for greenhouse gas emissions that negatively impact the climate (see also “Impacts, risks and opportunities from our business activities” from page 181 onward). We accept this responsibility and are pursuing ambitious climate protection targets.22 At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 194 22 We report on greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard as well as the sector-specific standard for the chemical industry. Our targets include future organic growth and investments. They are based on the scope of consolidation using the financial control method and are audited in the context of the annual report. For information on compatibility with the 1.5°C scenario, see page 185."
"Scope 1 and 2 Based on the 2018 base year, we want to achieve a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from our production processes (Scope 1) and our energy purchases (Scope 2) by 2030.23 Our target focuses on emissions caused by our production and includes 96% of our gross Scope 1 emissions and 99% of our gross Scope 2 emissions. This means that we aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 21.9 million metric tons to 16.4 million metric tons – despite our growth plans and the construction of a new Verbund site in southern China. This corresponds to a decrease of around 60% compared with 1990. Our long-term target is to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.23 We consider future developments in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in line with the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. When recalculating the emissions from the base year, we have set ourselves a limit of 5% cumulative deviations from the base year. Greenhouse gas emissions of the BASF Group (Scope 1 and 2)a Million metric tons of CO2 equivalents a Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties). The target includes greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which are converted into CO2 equivalents (CO2e). b The figure for 2023 has been adjusted to reflect updated data. In 2024, the BASF Group’s emissions from production and energy purchases23 amounted to 17.0 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents (2023: 17.0 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents24). The slight rise in demand year on year lifted production volumes and thus resulted in higher CO2 emissions. At the same time, we increased the share of electricity from renewable sources compared with the previous year to 26% and, together with measures to increase energy and process efficiency, made a relevant contribution to reducing emissions. All in all, we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions in BASF’s operations by 58% since 1990. Scope 3.1 We set ourselves an ambitious Scope 3.1 target25 for our specific raw materials-related emissions in 2023. This includes around 92% of our Scope 3.1 emissions based on the base year. By 2030, we want to reduce these in relation to the purchasing volume specifically by 15% from the 2022 base year. Consequently, we are planning to reduce our specific Scope 3.1 emissions from 1.64 kilograms of CO2 per kilogram of raw materials purchased in the base year 2022 to 1.39 kilograms in the target year 2030.25 Through our commitment, we aim to keep our target-relevant Scope 3.1 emissions roughly At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 195 23 Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties). The emissions account for 96% of total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in relation to the base year. The target includes greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which are converted into CO2 equivalents (CO2e). Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the market-based approach in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Based on the aforementioned emission reduction levers, we assume a reduction in Scope 1 emissions of around 14% between 2018 and 2030. We aim to reduce Scope 2 emissions by around 75% in the same period. The target is aligned with limiting global warming to a global average of 1.5°C, and is thus science-based. It has not been externally audited. 24 The figure for 2023 has been adjusted to reflect updated data. 25 Scope 3.1, gross emissions from raw materials excluding battery materials, excluding services, technical goods and greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business. The emissions account for 52% of total Scope 3 emissions based on the 2024 business year. The target is not science-based and has not been externally audited. We adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS Guideline in the reporting year due to the availability of further primary data."
"constant at 50 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents by 2030 despite growing production. We have recalculated our base value for our Scope 3.1 target in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 3 Standard, due to a change in secondary data and to the ongoing improvement in primary data availability under our Supplier CO2 Management Program (see “Actions along our value chain” on page 192). This preserves comparability between the base year and current business years. Raw materials-related emissions from battery materials are initially excluded from the target. Battery materials make a significant contribution to reducing CO2 emissions and thus facilitate the transformation of the transportation sector. Required raw materials such as lithium, nickel and cobalt will not be able to be replaced by more sustainable alternatives in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, associated emissions cannot be reduced significantly in the short term. As soon as recyclable solutions come into play with the increase in available end-of-life batteries, we will include these raw materials in our target definition (for more information on our battery recycling activities, see page 254). In the long term, we are striving to reduce Scope 3.1 emissions to an unavoidable minimum by 2050, thereby expanding our long-term net-zero target to include these greenhouse gas emissions. Greenhouse gas emissions of the BASF Group (Scope 3.1) a Scope 3.1, raw materials excluding battery materials, excluding services, technical goods and greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business b We adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS Guideline in the reporting year due to the availability of further primary data. c The value for 2023 was adjusted due to increased data availability. In 2024, specific Scope 3.1 emissions26 amounted to 1.58 kilograms of CO2 per kilogram of raw materials purchased (2023: 1.67 kilograms27). The reduction in specific emissions is mainly attributable to a change in the raw materials portfolio. In addition, first raw materials were purchased from suppliers who offer these with a lower PCF. We monitor progress toward our targets annually as part of our strategic controlling activities. For an overview of our greenhouse gas emissions – broken down by operational control and financial control – see page 200. Our projection of target-relevant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for 2025 can be found in the forecast on page 82 onward. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 196 26 Scope 3.1, raw materials excluding battery materials, excluding services, technical goods and greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business. The emissions account for 52% of total Scope 3 emissions based on the 2024 business year. We adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS Guideline in the reporting year due to the availability of further primary data. 27 The value for 2023 was adjusted due to increased data availability."
"Target setting was preceded by an analysis of expected business developments, external requirements relating to emission reduction targets and internal implementation opportunities, including the use of pilot plants to develop technical solutions. In addition, cost estimates were developed for planned actions. A Supplier CO2 Management Program was established and support was provided for the development of standards such as TfS before the Scope 3.1 target was introduced. This approach was designed to ensure that the targets were not only ambitious but also implementable. We discuss the sustainability topics that are material for BASF at regular meetings with external stakeholders forming part of our strategic stakeholder engagement activities, and in discussions with investors. In this way, stakeholder expectations are continuously taken into account in the development of strategic sustainability management approaches, targets and principles. Carbon credits E1-7 As part of the above stated targets, we have committed to reducing our Scope 1, 2 and 3.1 emissions to net zero by 2050. Despite all our efforts, we expect there to be a residual share of emissions in 2050 that cannot be abated using technical or economic approaches. We are aiming to offset all remaining emissions by 2050 inclusive through high-quality, high-credibility nature-based and technical measures, such as the sequestration of CO2 into the soil through farming (carbon farming). We are planning to use ratings such as BeZero and Sylvera, and initiatives such as the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (ICVCM), its Core Carbon Principles and carbon credits assessed using them. At the same time, we are developing internal standards for evaluating projects and considering whether to develop our own projects. We are also evaluating using/developing a project under the European Carbon Removal and Carbon Farming Certification Framework (CRCF). In view of this situation, we will likely use a portfolio of different credits, and will rely on well-known standards such as Verra and Gold Standard, but also credits under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and the CRCF. BASF did not use any carbon credits in the past business year. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 197"
"8 Upstream leased assets This category comprises leased cars, leased office and storage space and leased equipment. Average values provided by the manufacturers are used for leased cars, broken down by drive system and engine size. In the case of electric vehicles we use the regional CO2 emission factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency). Since data availability varies, we extrapolate global emissions on the basis of BASF SE data and the number of staff. Emissions for leased office and storage space are calculated using the IEA’s regional emission factors for electricity and internal standard values for steam. Energy consumption is assumed by region per m2 on the basis of average values. Emissions from leased equipment are calculated in the same way as emissions from technical goods (3.1). 9 Downstream transportation Greenhouse gas emissions from BASF’s freight transports are calculated as well-to-wheel (WtW) emissions using the EcoTransIT World (ETW) IT solution, drawing on transportation data from BASF’s ERP system. 11 Use of sold products This category comprises direct emissions in BASF products’ use phase. Since most products undergo further processing, this primarily relates to CO2 that is passed on to the food industry; emissions from blowing agents needed to produce polyurethane foams; emissions from the production of polyurethanes from polyol and isocyanates; and emissions from the use of fertilizers, urea and carbonates (baking powder). We use our own purchase and sales volume data to calculate the emissions. 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products Sales volumes and the carbon content of BASF’s sales products are used to calculate emissions. It is assumed that the products are disposed of in the regions in which they were sold. Regional differences in disposal routes are taken into account. The annual shares of the different disposal routes for municipal waste are taken from the following sources: Eurostat, OECDStat, UNStats and IDB. In the case of waste disposal by incineration or landfill, it is assumed that all the carbon contained in the product is ultimately emitted as CO2. 15 Investments Greenhouse gas emissions from joint ventures and associated companies accounted for using the equity method and not included in BASF’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Emissions from production sites are captured directly using a database query. Calculation methodologies for Scope 3 categories Scope 3 category Calculation methodology Internal carbon pricing E1-8 We use shadow prices in the form of price projections to factor in the costs of CO2 emissions when assessing investment projects. These shadow prices differ by region (Europe, Asia and North America) and represent the expected developments in these economic areas in the decades up to 2050. In view of the different ways in which the global economy could potentially develop, BASF currently uses three different scenarios (for more on the scenarios see page 180), which are also used to analyze transition risks. The scenarios and the prices derived from them were developed together with an external cooperation partner. The fundamental drivers for the scenarios are different societal preferences and, building on these, climate and economic policy objectives. The result is a price per metric ton of CO2 equivalents of up to €340, depending on the year. This is used for all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions caused by investments (capex) by our companies worldwide, and is included in the cost calculations. As a result, the emissions caused or reduced are directly included in the decision-making process. This favors investments in low-emission measures and measures that contribute to reducing emissions. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 203"
"Since the investments will be made in the future, they are not included in the reported emissions for the business year. Consequently, the Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions for the current year covered by shadow prices amount to 0 metric tons of CO2 equivalents in each case. In the Consolidated Financial Statements, the shadow prices were only used for the valuation of the climate protection agreement that BASF concluded with the Federal Republic of Germany to fund a heat pump at the Ludwigshafen site. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 204"
"E2 Pollution Prevention ESRS E2 We work continuously to reduce environmental impacts caused by our business activities. This includes preventing or reducing emissions to air and water, which we achieve first and foremost by operating our plants safely and efficiently. We are also committed to our responsibility for environmental protection throughout the entire value chain in order to reduce the impacts on air and water. In addition, we develop product solutions for our customers that enable them to reduce emissions. ESRS 2 IRO-1 As part of our double materiality assessment conducted in 2024 (see page 167), the topic Environment was identified as material. In particular, the assessment identified emissions to air and water as relevant subtopics for the business activities of BASF. Emissions to air in the form of air pollutants, such as nitrogen oxides and ammonia, are produced in connection with energy generation and in our production processes. We use water as a coolant, solvent and cleaning agent as well as to make our products. We utilize waterways for the purpose of transporting goods. Most of the water used at our production sites is purified and largely reused multiple times, before being discharged as wastewater. Organic substances and heavy metals, for instance, are thus emitted. Our double materiality assessment reveals nine material impacts on the environment and two material risks for BASF (see the table “Results of the double materiality assessment”). Regular emissions to air (excluding greenhouse gases; GHG) in connection with the manufacture of extracted raw materials Negative Upstream value chain (mining/mineral extraction industry) Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air pollution are generated in connection with the mining and extraction of raw materials in our upstream value chain in the mining and mineral extraction industries. Regular emissions to air (excluding GHG) in connection with the production of precursors and intermediates Negative Upstream value chain (excluding mining/ mineral extraction industry) Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air pollution are generated by the production of precursors and intermediates in our upstream value chain. Regular emissions to water Negative Upstream value chain Emissions to water contributing to water pollution are generated by the production and extraction of raw materials, precursors and intermediates in our upstream value chain. Regular emissions to air (excluding GHG) Negative BASF’s own operations Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air pollution, such as nitrogen oxides, particles and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), are generated in connection with production in our plants. Regular emissions to water Negative BASF’s own operations Emissions to water contributing to water pollution, such as nitrogen compounds, organic substances and heavy metals, are generated in connection with production in our plants. Regular emissions to air (excluding GHG) in connection with the usage, further processing, transport, storage and disposal of our products Negative Downstream value chain Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air pollution are generated in connection with the usage, further processing, transportation, storage and disposal of our products by our customers. Results of the double materiality assessment for E2 Pollution Prevention: Impacts Impacts Evaluation Placement in the value chain Description At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 205"
"Regular emissions to water Negative Downstream value chain Emissions to water contributing to water pollution are generated in connection with the usage, further processing, transportation, storage and disposal of our products by our customers. Chemical leakages Negative, potential BASF’s own operations, upstream and downstream value chain Potential chemical leakages in our own operations, as well as in upstream/downstream processing, may result in pollution of water and therefore environmental pollution. Impact on human health and the environment of substances of (very high) concern Negative, potential Downstream value chain Due to the sale of products containing substances of concern or of very high concern, irresponsible and improper handling of these products in the downstream value chain may result in water or soil pollution or to an adverse impact on the environment or human health. Results of the double materiality assessment for E2 Pollution Prevention: Impacts Impacts Evaluation Placement in the value chain Description Results of the double materiality assessment for E2 Pollution Prevention: Risks and opportunities Risks Evaluation Description Increased costs for water treatment due to regulatory changes. Negative Regulatory developments concerning emissions to water may require investments in our infrastructure and upgrades to our systems. Regulations with respect to substances of (very high) concern may have a negative impact on the market, for procurement, BASF’s own production or sales. Negative Regulatory changes on substances of concern or of very high concern, such as their restriction, may limit the availability of relevant raw materials and negatively impact market behavior and customer acceptance. As a result of our double materiality assessment, emissions into the soil are not deemed as material for BASF. Moreover, generated and used microplastic does not represent a material topic for BASF either. We systematically record all short and long-term opportunities and risks linked to environmental impacts as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional information, see page 87 onward). We considered all BASF sites and their operations as the basis for the double materiality assessment. Emissions to air and water are systematically documented and reviewed in a Group-wide database. Pollutant-related impacts are assessed and documented continuously. In addition, the screening of new sites includes environmental impact assessments by independent third parties. As part of internal approval processes, risks associated with environmental impacts are assessed and documented in an environmental statement. When assessing the upstream and downstream value chain, we are aware of the risks associated with the production and handling of chemical substances and draw on our own experience. We aim to even better understand our impact on our environment in terms of emissions to air and water and include the perspectives of surrounding communities in our decision-making and activities. We are therefore committed to dialog based on a spirit of trust and maintain close relations with surrounding communities at our BASF sites. We provide information on the topic of emissions to air and water, issue updates on the latest developments, set up hotlines for immediate contact and availability as well as hosting neighborhood forums where concerns about environmental impacts, such as emissions to air and water, can be voiced (see also page 308). In addition, we participate in dialog forums and advisory At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 206"
"bodies, such as our Nature Advisory Council, which we established together with external specialists, where we discuss topics related to nature and biodiversity (for more information, see page 309). Since 2023, we have also been using the new stakeholder engagement format of the Sustainability Lab, where around 100 external and internal experts discuss specific issues concerning sustainable development from various perspectives (for more information, see page 166). Also in the future, we plan to conduct the Sustainability Lab format on an event-driven basis. » For more information about the BASF Nature Advisory Council, see basf.com/en/nature-advisory-council » For more information on the BASF Sustainability Lab, see basf.com/en/sustainability-lab Strategy and governance E2-1 Explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope of application, accountability, impacts in the value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof, see General Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 151 onward. These include, among other things, our Responsible Care Management System and, as part of this, our global standards in terms of environmental protection, process safety, product safety and transportation safety as well as emergency and crisis management. BASF’s position on water protection, our risk-based sustainability management for procurement and the Supplier Code of Conduct can also be found there. Environmental protection in our production With its “Winning Ways” strategy, BASF intends to continue to drive forward the transformation of its production operations and its product portfolio. In order to prevent or reduce negative environmental impacts due to regular emissions to air and water, as well as due to potential product spills and leakages into water, a holistic approach is needed to ensure efficient and resource-saving production and continuous monitoring to protect the environment. We have therefore established comprehensive management and control systems for our own production. BASF is actively involved in the International Council of Chemical Associations’ (ICCA) global Responsible Care® initiative. Our Responsible Care Management System, based on the eponymous initiative, not only encompasses occupational health and safety requirements and standards (see page 278 onward), but also environmental protection. We aim to further reduce emissions to air from our production by means of process improvements and new technologies. Similarly, we strive to reduce negative impacts on water quality as part of responsible handling of water as a resource and sustainable water management. This is also set out in our position paper on water protection. » For more information on our position paper on water protection, see basf.com/water We have defined our global standards for emissions to air and water in Group-wide requirements, the implementation and compliance of which is the responsibility of the sites and Group companies. The requirements also cover the aspects of process and transportation safety in order to prevent production and transportation-related product spills and leakages into air and water as effectively as possible (for more information, see page 209 onward). For example, these stipulate that water protection concepts must be implemented at all production sites in order to prevent unforeseen emissions and the pollution of surface or ground water. We continuously update our requirements and guidelines, which can be accessed via an internal BASF database. To this end, we also exchange information with authorities, associations and international organizations. We also exchange information, experiences and practical examples via the global BASF network of experts. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 207"
"which would, however, not specifically affect BASF, could only arise in the event of an unforeseen proliferation of regulatory measures. The substances of concern or of very high concern deployed by BASF in global value chains in the 2024 business year are stated in the following tables. As an integrated chemical company, BASF manufactures a broad portfolio of products, many of which are further processed by customers in the chemical industry. We handle the substances in our production appropriately and supply our customers with products that can be used safely if handled properly. As a B2B company, we market only a very small portion of our products directly to consumers and end users. The values listed in the tables also include multiple counts if several main hazard classes apply to a substance. The values therefore do not correspond to the total tonnages actually introduced into the downstream value chain. Information about substances of concern (SoC) that are classified in one of the following hazard classes or hazard categories in Part 3 of Annex 4 of Regulation 1272/2008 (CLP Regulation) Main hazard classa Total volumes (aggregated) in metric tons per yearb Carcinogenity (Carc. 1; Carc. 2) 4,178,324 Germ cell mutagenicity (Muta. 1; Muta. 2) 2,058,739 Reproductive toxicity (Repr. 1; Repr. 2) 697,124 Endocrine disruptor for human health (ED HH 1; ED HH 2)c – Endocrine disruptor for the environment (ED ENV 1; ED ENV 2)c – Persistent, mobile and toxic (PMT) or very persistent and very mobile (vPvM)c – Persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) or very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB)c – Respiratory sensitization (Resp. sens. 1) 1,995,577 Skin sensitization (Skin sens. 1) 2,809,301 (Aquatic chronic 1; Aquatic chronic 2; Aquatic chronic 3; Aquatic chronic 4) 764,913 Damages the ozone layer (Ozone 1) 612 Specific target organ toxicity, repeated exposure (STOT RE 1; STOT RE 2) 3,442,402 Specific target organ toxicity, single exposure (STOT SE 1; STOT SE 2) 643,551 a Where components in a product/material are assigned to more than one main hazard class, the volume of components will be included in each hazard class, respectively. b Emissions (separate reporting via environmental legislation) not included c Not yet implemented part of the EU regulation At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 219"
"Information on substances of very high concern (SVHC) that correspond to the criteria pursuant to Article 57 and that have been identified pursuant to Article 59 (1) of the REACH regulation (EC) 1907/2006 Main hazard class as per REACH Article 57a Total volume (aggregated) in metric tons per yearb Carcinogenity (Carc. 1A; Carc. 1B) (Article 57a) 289,788 Germ cell mutagenicity (Muta 1A; Muta 1B) (Article 57b) 224,046 Reproductive toxicity (Repr .1A; Repr. 1B) (Article 57c) 67,739 Persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) Article (57d) 807 Very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB) (Article 57e) 1,593 Substances – such as those with endocrine disrupting properties or those with persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic properties or very persistent and very bioaccumulative properties that do not meet the criteria of items d or e – that according to scientific knowledge probably have severe impacts on human health or on the environment, which give rise to an equivalent level of concern to those other substances listed under a to e and that are identified, on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 59 (Article 57f). 46,354 a Where components in a product/material are assigned to more than one main hazard class, as nominated in the candidate list, the volume of components in each hazard class will be included, respectively. b Emissions (separate reporting via environmental legislation) not included At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 220"
"E3 Water ESRS E3 Water is of fundamental importance in chemical production along the entire value chain. It is used as a coolant, solvent and cleaning agent, and to make our products. Waterways are used to transport goods. At the same time, water is a scarce commodity in an increasing number of regions. That is why we promote the responsible use of this resource with sustainable water management. Our main business – the development, production and processing of chemicals – as well as the transportation of chemicals requires the responsible use of water as a resource. Firstly, we aim to use water as sparingly and efficiently as possible. Secondly, we want to minimize emissions of potentially harmful substances to water in our production processes and treat wastewater adequately. We address environmental, health and safety risks with a comprehensive Responsible Care Management System (see page 207). ESRS 2 IRO-1 As part of our double materiality assessment conducted in 2024 (see page 167), the topic Water was identified as material. The assessment identified six material impacts on water as a resource and one material risk for BASF (see the table “Results of the double materiality assessment”). Results of the double materiality assessment for E3 Water: Impacts Impacts Evaluation Placement in the value chain Description Limited availability due to water abstraction and consumption Negative Upstream value chain We impact water availability through water abstraction and consumption in our upstream value chain, particularly in water stress areas. Regular emissions to water Negative Upstream value chain Emissions to water contributing to water pollution are generated by the production and extraction of raw materials, precursors and intermediates in our upstream value chain. Limited availability due to water abstraction Negative BASF’s own operations Water abstraction for our production impacts water availability in the areas where our production sites are located, particularly in water stress areas. Regular emissions to water Negative BASF’s own operations Emissions to water contributing to water pollution, such as nitrogen compounds, organic substances and heavy metals, are generated in connection with production in our plants. Limited availability due to water abstraction and consumption Negative Downstream value chain We impact water availability through water abstraction and consumption in our downstream value chain, particularly in water stress areas. Regular emissions to water Negative Downstream value chain Emissions to water contributing to water pollution are generated in connection with the usage, further processing, transportation, storage and disposal of our products by our customers. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 221"
"Results of the double materiality assessment for E3 Water: Risks and opportunities Risk Evaluation Description Increased costs for water treatment due to regulatory changes Negative Regulatory developments concerning emissions to water may require investments in our infrastructure and upgrades to our systems. The three identified impacts related to water quality impairment from regular emissions to water along the value chain, as well as the identified risk from regulatory developments, are mainly covered in chapter E2 Pollution Prevention (see page 205). The use of marine resources, such as seawater as a water source or for wastewater discharge, is not considered material for BASF due to the small volumes involved. Our Responsible Care Management covers these aspects despite their lower relevance. We systematically record all short and long-term opportunities and risks that arise from water as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional information, see page 87 onward). As the basis for the double materiality assessment, all BASF sites were considered for our own operations. We systematically record and monitor water volumes and constituents in a Group-wide database. The impacts of water abstraction and wastewater discharge are continuously assessed and documented as part of permitting requirements. The screening of new sites also includes environmental impact assessments by independent third parties. As part of internal approval processes, risks associated with environmental impacts are assessed and documented in an environmental statement. When assessing the upstream and downstream value chain, we are aware of the risks associated with the production and handling of chemical substances and draw on our own experience. By engaging in open and trusting dialog, we strive for better understanding our impact on the environment and incorporate the perspectives of surrounding communities in our decision-making and doing. Our BASF production sites maintain close relationships with surrounding communities by providing information and updates on current developments, offering hotlines for immediate contact and availability as well as hosting neighborhood forums to address concerns about environmental impacts, such as water availability and quality (see also page 308). In addition, we rely on dialog forums and advisory bodies, such as our Nature Advisory Council, which we established together with external specialists, where we discuss topics related to nature and biodiversity (for more information, see page 309). Since 2023, we have also been using the new stakeholder engagement format of the Sustainability Lab, where around 100 external and internal experts discuss specific issues concerning sustainable development from various perspectives (for more information, see page 166). Also in the future, we plan to conduct the Sustainability Lab format on an event-driven basis. » For more information on the BASF Nature Advisory Council, see basf.com/en/nature-advisory-council » For more information on the BASF Sustainability Lab, see basf.com/en/sustainability-lab Strategy and governance E3-1 Explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope of application, accountability, impacts in the value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof, see General Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 151 onward. These include, among other things, our Responsible Care Management System and, as part of this, our global standards in terms of environmental protection, product safety and transportation safety. BASF’s position on water protection, our risk-based sustainability management for procurement and the Supplier Code of Conduct can also be found there. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 222"
"Water protection in our production We aim to reduce negative impacts on water availability caused by water abstraction in our own production. Likewise, we also strive to reduce water pollution from regular emissions to water. This requires a holistic approach and continuous control. That is why we have established comprehensive management and control systems for our own production. BASF is actively involved in the International Council of Chemical Associations’ (ICCA) global Responsible Care® initiative. Our Responsible Care Management System, based on the eponymous initiative, not only encompasses occupational health and safety requirements and standards (see page 278 onward), but also environmental protection. The responsible use of water as a resource is a core element of our Responsible Care Management System and an important part of our commitment to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This is also reflected in our position paper on water protection. We use Responsible Care audits, including in areas such as environment (air, water, waste), to monitor compliance with our Responsible Care Management System. » For more information on our position paper on water protection, see basf.com/water A key component of our strategy for many years now has been the introduction and implementation of sustainable water management, for which we have set a global target (see page 227). We have reviewed our water target in 2024 and assessed it as important for implementing our strategy. This is also consistent with recent scientific findings, such as the Planetary Boundaries reassessed in 2023 (Richardson et al. (2023); Stockholm Resilience Centre). We want to protect water as a resource, continuously improve water use efficiency and reduce emissions. These efforts focus on our Verbund sites and production sites in water stress areas.1 We look at water availability, water quality and the impact of our water use on the environment and other users. For this, we use the standard of the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) as guidance. AWS is a global multistakeholder organization that promotes the responsible use of water, which we are a member of. Our water consumption is low compared with the total water volume sourced (see information on Water balance on page 229) and therefore not a material topic for BASF in terms of the double materiality assessment. Our global standards and guidelines for water are defined in the Group-wide requirement Corporate Requirement Environmental Protection. Among other things, these stipulate that water protection concepts must be implemented at all production sites to prevent emissions and the pollution of surface or groundwater. The requirements also cover the aspects of process and transportation safety in order to prevent production and transport-related product spills and leakages into water bodies as effectively as possible. Our sites and Group companies are responsible for implementing and complying with internal requirements, accessible via an internal BASF database, and legal requirements. The Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit in the Corporate Center conducts regular audits to monitor this. During these audits, a safety and environmental profile is created, which shows if we are addressing the existing hazard potential properly. If this is not the case, corrective measures are determined, which are to be implemented within a specific time frame depending on the identified hazard potential. We monitor this in follow-up audits, among other things. BASF’s global network of experts shares information, insights and best practices on the responsible use of water on an ongoing basis. Our requirements and guidelines are continuously updated on a regular basis. To this end, we also exchange information with authorities, associations and international organizations. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 223 1 We define water stress areas as regions in which more than 40% of available water is used by industry, households and agriculture. Our definition is based on the Water Risk Atlas (Aqueduct 4.0) published by the World Resources Institute. For more information, see wri.org/aqueduct"
"Metrics E3-4 Water balance of the BASF Group in 2024 Million cubic meters per year a The difference between the volume of water abstracted and the volume discharged is primarily due to the limited accuracy in measuring water discharge. b Total from production processes, sanitation, rinsing and cleaning in production. Our water abstraction in 2024 amounted to 1,507 million cubic meters. This demand was covered for the most part by freshwater such as rivers and lakes. At some sites, we use alternative sources such as treated municipal wastewater, brackish water or seawater. A small part of the water we use reaches our sites as part of raw materials and steam, or is released in our production processes. Water use in 2024 totaled 7,102 million cubic meters. The total volume of recycled and reused water in 2024 amounted to 5,734 million cubic meters. We predominantly use water for cooling purposes (88% of total water abstraction), after which we discharge it back to our supply sources with no product contact. We reduce our water abstraction for cooling purposes mainly by using recooling plants. Around 12% of our total water abstraction is used in our production plants, for example, for extraction and dissolution processes or for cleaning. Here, too, we reduce our demand for water by reusing wastewater. Most of the water used for production purposes is discharged back to water bodies after being treated in our own or third-party wastewater treatment plants. The BASF Group’s water consumption describes the amount of water that is not discharged back into a water body, meaning that it is no longer available to other users. We calculate water consumption as the sum of evaporation in cooling processes, water content in our sales products and water consumed otherwise at our sites. Consumption is mainly attributable to the evaporation of water in recirculating cooling systems. A smaller amount is from the water contained in our products. Water consumption in 2024 amounted to around 76 million cubic meters. In 2024, around 30% of our production sites were located in water stress areas.6 These sites accounted for 19 million cubic meters, representing 1% of BASF’s total water abstraction. Water consumption at these sites amounted to 9 million cubic meters. Production sites located in areas affected by high or extremely high overall water risk6 (23% of our sites in 2024) accounted for 13 million cubic meters, or 1% of BASF’s total water abstraction. Their water consumption in 2024 amounted to 6 million cubic meters. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 229 6 Aqueduct 4.0 was used to identify sites with high or extremely high water stress and/or overall water risk."
"A general description of our measurement methods and a description of the data collection process, as well as general information on the estimation or rounding of individual sustainability parameters, can be found in the General Disclosures section of our Sustainability Statement on page 150 onward. Based on net revenue (in million €) and water consumption (in cubic meters), water intensity in 2024 amounted to 1,171 cubic meters per million € net revenue. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 230"
"E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems ESRS E4 Biodiversity is under threat. It is the foundation for functioning ecosystems. As a chemical company, we use valuable natural resources such as water, air and soil. At the same time, our business activities have an impact on these resources, for example through emissions to the environment or the sourcing of renewable raw materials. ESRS 2 IRO-1 As part of the double materiality assessment that we conducted for 2024 (see page 167), the topic Biodiversity and Ecosystems was defined as material. When performing the assessment, we drew on three sources of information, in particular: – Assessments of various stakeholders and assessments taken from specialist literature – Assessments by BASF experts – Digital sources The digital sources were evaluated using big data and AI analysis tools. We also used platforms such as the Biodiversity Risk Filter (BRF) of the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) and the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN). In 2024, we also discussed our approach to biodiversity in our Nature Advisory Council, a body dedicated to topics related to protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. The Nature Advisory Council supports BASF in obtaining an independent societal perspective on our activities in relation to nature and biodiversity topics. At the end of 2024, the Nature Advisory Council comprised five members from the field of science, relevant value chains and multilateral organizations. Affected communities were not involved in the identification of material topics for the Biodiversity and Ecosystems cluster. ESRS 2 SBM-3 As a chemical company, our business activities interface with nature, and therefore with biodiversity and ecosystems, in three key areas. These are: – Sourcing of raw materials – Operation of production plants – Attributes of our products In order to better categorize and understand the impact of BASF on nature at our production facilities, in their immediate surroundings and throughout the value chain, we use the five drivers of biodiversity loss as defined by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES): Land-use change, pollution, climate change, overexploitation of resources, and invasive species. We also followed this logic in our double materiality assessment (see page 167). As the topic categories Climate Change and Pollution are examined at length in the chapters E1 Climate Change (from page 178 onward) and E2 Pollution Prevention (see page 205 onward), they are not discussed in detail in this chapter. The use of water as a resource is also explored in detail separately (from page 221 onward). We did not examine the driver “invasive species” more closely, as we do not consider it relevant for BASF. Thus, this chapter focuses on the topics surrounding land use and the impacts of our business activities on the land. No significant impacts were identified with regard to desertification and soil sealing. We also At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 231"
"consider the condition of the natural environment in proximity to our relevant sites and in relevant value chains (see page 233). Our double materiality assessment indicates six material impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems as well as one associated material risk for BASF (see tables below). We systematically document opportunities and risks as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional information, see page 87 onward). Results of the double materiality assessment for E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems: Impacts Impacts Evaluation Placement in the value chain Description Need for land use due to the cultivation of renewable raw materials Negative Upstream value chain By procuring renewable raw materials, we provide impetus for their cultivation. This cultivation alters land use and can negatively impact ecosystems. Impact on land degradation due to the sourcing of raw materials Negative Upstream value chain By sourcing raw materials, we provide impetus for their cultivation and extraction. In some cases, this leads to land degradation. Land use by BASF sites Negative BASF’s own operations BASF uses many plots of land for various purposes, such as offices, production and agricultural testing grounds. Soil sealing, especially due to production plants in the chemical industry, represents a significant land use type. The loss of biodiversity may be facilitated by the use of crop protection products Negative, potential Downstream value chain In the downstream value chain, the use of crop protection products across large agricultural areas may have a negative impact on biodiversity. The use of industrial chemicals and their distribution in the environment may have a negative impact on species Negative, potential Downstream value chain The use of industrial chemicals and their distribution in the environment may have a negative impact on species and biodiversity. More sustainable intensification of farming Positive Downstream value chain The use of our products, including crop protection products, in agriculture enables farmers to increase their productivity, thus supporting food production. Results of the double materiality assessment for E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems: Risks and opportunities Risk Evaluation Description Regulatory requirements for the marketing of chemicals Negative Regulatory developments, prompted by actual or anticipated impacts of our products on the state of species, their population sizes or their risk of extinction, impact our opportunities to market chemicals. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 232"
"Strategy and governance E4-1 We are currently undergoing a transformation toward climate neutrality and observance of the planetary boundaries. To this end, we have set ourselves ambitious targets (see page 31) that impact our business models and our strategy as well as how they interface with nature, biodiversity and ecosystems. – We strive to use more and more renewable alternatives to fossil raw materials and energy. – We aim to continuously reduce emissions in the natural world and improve our resource use on an ongoing basis. – We manage our product portfolio with regard to the product-related contributions to greater sustainability (TripleS: Sustainable Solution Steering, see page 161). These three areas of transformation are also relevant to many of our stakeholders, such as investors, customers, legislators, suppliers, insurers and nongovernmental organizations. We actively seek out partnerships with relevant interest groups and organizations worldwide, for example in the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), to expand our knowledge, to raise awareness about biodiversity and to drive necessary actions forward. In the event that our business activities negatively impact or could negatively impact affected communities, we involve them or their representatives in one of our stakeholder engagement formats (see page 308). We generally consider the resilience of our business models at the level of our business units or operating divisions along the value chain (see page 169). The current resilience of our business models in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems was examined in 2024 in preparation for our double materiality assessment. In our Nature Advisory Council, we discussed aspects that were part of this assessment, such as our approach to renewable raw materials. Through the use of big data analysis, stakeholder viewpoints were also incorporated into our considerations. The assessment was conducted under the basic assumption of continuity concerning our current raw materials base. The examination focused on those business models connected with the impacts identified in this topic category: The use of industrial chemicals and the use of crop protection products. Overall, we assess our resilience level as high. As a chemical company, we still mainly use fossil raw materials. Our sourcing of renewable raw materials is diversified, leading to low dependence on biodiversity and ecosystem services. We regard the availability of water in sufficient quality and quantity as an important, but not material, dependency on ecosystem services. This dependency is documented as part of our opportunities and risk management and is addressed by means of our sustainable water management (see page 225). We therefore regard our physical risks as low. We actively pursue actions (see page 248) to reduce our dependency on fossil-based technologies and raw materials. This increases our dependency and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. The associated transitory and systemic risks have been considered and assessed as not material. In respect of our business model in the field of agriculture, the long-term market demand for crop protection products and support in food production results in a high level of resilience. The transitory and systemic risks associated with this line of business have been considered and assessed as important but not material. With a view to avoiding impacts on nature, we are guided by the risk mitigation hierarchy. If impacts cannot be minimized, we aim to reduce them, support the restoration of nature or contribute to the transformation of value chains toward better environmental outcomes. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 233"
"In relation to our impact in connection with the sourcing of renewable raw materials, we set ourselves the target in 2015 of purchasing 100% certified palm oil and palm kernel oil starting 2020. We regard this target as a key indicator of whether our measures in the upstream value chain are successful. In recent years, we have met this target. Due to insufficient availability of RSPO-certified palm kernel oil, we were unfortunately unable to meet this target in 2024, posting a figure of 98.1% (2023: 100%). In 2024, we were able to trace approx. 97% of our total volume of our global palm footprint5 back to the oil mill (2023: 96%). In view of volatile market dynamics, we are adjusting our palm-specific targets. We will continue to source 100% certified sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil to the extent that this is commercially available and possible. We are adjusting our aim of sourcing derivatives of palm oil and palm kernel oil as 100% certified products from 2025 (2024: 10.2%). Due to the lack of availability on the market, we are now aiming to achieve this target by 2030. RSPO certification will remain a preferred standard. If we consider alternative standards or systems, they must demonstrate an equally stringent focus on environmental protection, labor standards and human rights. In addition, we will strictly adhere to our responsible sourcing principles. Achieving our targets remains dependent on the availability of raw materials and economic feasibility. As part of our “Winning Ways” strategy, we have set ourselves a new target in the area of circular economy. We strive to almost double the sales revenue generated by so-called Loop Solutions to €10 billion by 2030, compared with the base year of 2023. We define Loop Solutions as products that make a positive contribution to the circular economy in line with the TripleS methodology. These are products that are based wholly or partially on renewable or recycled feedstocks, that support the recycling process, or that increase durability of materials or prolong their functional life (see page 252). As such, we aim to contribute to the more efficient use of resources and counteract climate change. This can also ease the pressure on ecosystems, as the use of recycled raw materials reduces demand for newly extracted raw materials. If fewer fossil raw materials are extracted or renewable raw materials harvested, this reduces the negative impacts on humans and the environment. As part of our Responsible Care Management System, for example, we review the effectiveness of our measures in terms of combating these impacts. We analyze our impacts in the downstream value chain by means of the TripleS method. We have set ourselves the target of considerably increasing sales that we generate through products that make a positive contribution to sustainability. We group these products together as Sustainable-Future Solutions. By 2030, more than 50% of BASF’s sales relevant to TripleS are to be attributable to Sustainable-Future Solutions. We are making good progress toward achieving this target (see page 161). Sustainable-Future Solutions also include products whose attributes have a positive impact on biodiversity and ecosystems, such as through the use of renewable or recycled raw materials. One example of this is surfactants made from certified, sustainable palm (kernel) oil, which are used in detergents, cleaning agents and dishwashing detergents. We do not rely on compensation measures to reach the aforementioned targets. With our selected measures and targets, we focus on avoiding or reducing negative impacts pursuant to the mitigation hierarchy. In terms of the impacts of our sites or our production activities, we have not set ourselves any dedicated targets on biodiversity and ecosystems. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 244 5 The global palm footprint comprises our sourcing of palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm-based primary derivatives."
"Metrics ESRS 2 SBM-3 ESRS 2 IRO-1 E4-5 All BASF production sites in proximity to nature reserves must document potential direct negative impacts on biodiversity-sensitive areas. No such impact was reported by any site for 2024. Since 2013, we have been analyzing production sites in terms of their proximity to nature reserves, including with the help of the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT). The sites have documented their results in our environmental database since 2021. In 2024, our assessment was expanded and now includes nature reserves pursuant to the classification of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) I, II and III as well as Ramsar, UNESCO Natural World Heritage Sites, Natura 2000 and Key Biodiversity Areas (KBAs). The sites document whether there are biodiversity-sensitive areas in their vicinity and whether they have had a negative impact on them. If such an instance occurs, we identify the cause of the negative impact. This could, for example, be a product leak, a habitat destruction due to construction work or the feeding in of untreated wastewater. Once we have concluded our investigation, we review the measures planned or already implemented in order to reduce or mitigate any impacts on nature. In 2024, nearly 15% of our production sites6 bordered a nature reserve or biodiversity-sensitive area; of which no sites reported negative impacts on nature reserves. Using the STAR (Species, Threat, Abatement and Restoration) tool, we also calculated the STAR values for our production sites based on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. This analysis covered the sites themselves and a radius of ten kilometers. The results indicate that some of our production sites are located in areas with high or very high STAR values. These values indicate, for instance, that these areas are home to a large number of threatened species. We took a closer look at the drivers of biodiversity loss at these sites. Drivers included tourism, fishing, invasive species and the occurrence of diseases unrelated to chemical production. » For more information on our commitment to biodiversity, see basf.com/biodiversity » For more information on our position on forest protection, see basf.com/forestprotection At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 245 6 For this analysis, production sites at which more than one BASF company operates were only counted once in order to avoid duplicate counting. “Neighboring” is deemed to mean within a radius of three kilometers."
"E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy ESRS E5 As the world’s population grows, so does demand for limited natural resources. At the same time, many valuable materials end up in landfill or in waste incineration. Using resources responsibly and closing loops are material for our business and achieving our sustainability targets. In our double materiality assessment, the topic Resource Use and Circular Economy was classified as material. For information on how the assessment was performed – including the tools used to do this – see the chapter General Disclosures, page 167 onward. We have identified five material impacts for BASF as a result of the assessment (see table below). The procurement and use of fossil raw materials negatively impact the environment through emissions, land use and environmental pollution. Waste arising at the end of the functional life of materials that are manufactured using our products may negatively impact the environment on disposal. At the same time, however, this waste also offers a potential opportunity for recycling raw materials and for closing material loops. We systematically record opportunities and risks as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional information, see page 87 onward). ESRS 2 IRO-1 To discuss critical issues and, if needed, develop solutions together, we seek dialog with our stakeholders. We are also involved in numerous sustainability initiatives to drive forward sustainability both in general and specifically in relation to our value chain. We are involved in networks, lobbying groups and associations in order to jointly promote sustainability topics. We cooperate with partners along the value chain, for example in the chemical industry’s Together for Sustainability initiative, and are involved in numerous networks such as the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF), the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), the Global Battery Alliance (GBA) and the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW). In doing so, we want to better understand requirements, trends and growth opportunities, and contribute to the development of standards. We use a Group-wide program to assess and develop new projects designed to promote the circular economy. We also address impacts, risks and opportunities by regularly assessing external, independent reports such as the Circularity Gap Report, which is published annually by the Circle Economy Foundation initiative. We have worked together with the WBCSD and other chemical companies to develop a Chemical Transformation Roadmap, which was published on the WBCSD website on October 1, 2024. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 246"
"Sourcing and use of fossil or renewable raw materials Negative Upstream value chain We negatively impact overshooting of the planetary boundaries by sourcing and using fossil and renewable raw materials, for example through emissions, land use and environmental pollution. Waste management in the upstream value chain Negative Upstream value chain We negatively impact the planetary boundaries through the waste arising in our upstream value chain as a result of sourcing, refining and processing. Use of fossil or renewable raw materials Negative BASF’s own operations, upstream and downstream value chain We negatively impact overshooting of the planetary boundaries by using, processing and combusting fossil or renewable raw materials, for example through emissions, land use and environmental pollution. Waste management in BASF’s own production Negative BASF’s own operations We negatively impact the planetary boundaries through the waste arising in our own production. Waste management in the downstream value chain Negative Downstream value chain We negatively impact the planetary boundaries through the waste arising at our customers. Results of the double materiality assessment for E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy Impacts Evaluation Placement in the value chain Description Strategy and governance E5-1 We are pursuing a holistic strategy to establish a circular economy and, at the same time, to reduce our company’s environmental footprint. We want to offer our customers innovative products and solutions to enable their green transformation. Our business units are therefore in close contact with our customers in order to better understand their sustainability needs and offer tailored BASF solutions. The insights from this dialog are also incorporated in our research projects and in innovation processes. Our strategy covers the entire value chain – from responsible sourcing and the efficient use of raw materials in our own processes and using by-products to developing resource-saving solutions for our customers. For explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope of application, accountability, impacts in the value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof, see General Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 151. Sourcing of raw materials Alongside economic, environmental and social criteria, we also consider aspects such as product safety and supply security when selecting suppliers and raw materials. Our procurement organization has set out guidelines for our upstream value chain in a global, risk-based management system. We have defined the standards for this in a global procurement requirement. The BASF Group uses this requirement to ensure that procurement processes are in line with our standards and with the legal guidelines. The requirement includes a supplier risk assessment, which also examines their sustainability performance. The aim here, among other things, is to combat the negative impacts on the environment of the procurement of both fossil and renewable raw materials. We endeavor to ensure compliance with this guideline using a multistage control process. The unit-specific risk management systems of our business units are supported and monitored during implementation according to minimum standards set by the Corporate Center units. The Corporate Audit unit, as the third instance involved, monitors the effectiveness and compliance with risk management. We require suppliers to comply with internationally recognized environmental standards. Our expectations are laid down in our Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 295), which is integrated into our purchasing conditions. This Code of Conduct, which also aims to address the negative impacts caused by our sourcing of fossil and renewable raw materials, covers protecting human rights, compliance with valid environmental regulations and the efficient use of resources, among other things. At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 247"
"The global procurement requirement is supplemented by specific internal guidelines, for example, on sourcing palm-based raw materials or certain mineral raw materials. The requirements regulate the sourcing of raw materials in general. They do not address a reduction in the use of fossil raw materials. As part of our new corporate strategy, the BASF Renewable Carbon unit within Global Procurement is continuing to drive the sourcing of renewable raw materials and biomass for BASF’s operating divisions. Use of fossil raw materials We are focusing on actions and on our circularity target to increasingly replace fossil raw materials with recycled or renewable raw materials. For many years, we have already been pursuing BASF’s Verbund concept1 to ensure the efficient use of raw materials. Intelligently linking and steering our plants and processes as set out in this concept creates efficient value chains. By-products from one plant are used as feedstocks elsewhere. This saves raw materials and energy. At the same time, the Verbund offers many opportunities to use renewable and recycled raw materials. Going forward, we want to better leverage this potential. Waste management in the value chain We rely on our sourcing requirements and our Supplier Code of Conduct to address waste management in our upstream value chain. The responsible management of resources and waste in our own production as well as of the negative impacts resulting from this are core elements of our Responsible Care Management System. We want to use this system to fulfill our corporate purpose of creating chemistry for a sustainable future. Specifically, we intend to use it continuously to improve our processes in the areas of safety, environmental protection and resource use. Our global standards and guidelines relating to waste are defined in the Group-wide Environmental Protection corporate requirement. This includes compliance with the waste management hierarchy: prevention, reuse, recycling, energy recovery, incineration, disposal. The sites and Group companies are responsible for implementing this requirement. The Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit in the Corporate Center conducts regular audits to monitor compliance with legal guidelines and internal requirements. BASF’s global network of experts shares information, experiences and best practices on an ongoing basis. Continuous monitoring, documentation and control of waste streams and contaminated sites as well as the implementation of improvement measures are an integral part of our environmental management. Actions E5-2 As part of our activities to achieve more sustainability, we are relying on recycled and renewable raw materials to replace fossil raw materials and reduce emissions along the value chain. We continuously evaluate whether fossil and petrochemical resources can be replaced with renewable or recycled alternatives. We are aiming to transition to a circular economy by focusing on using increased amounts of circular raw materials (both recycled and renewable), designing new material cycles and establishing new business models. We rely primarily on the following actions for this: – Responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials – Use of the mass balance approach – Partnerships to drive forward chemical recycling – Use of TripleS to steer our product portfolio toward more sustainability At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 248 1 The Verbund concept is not a BASF policy and therefore also not a policy as defined by the ESRSs."
