"Exor's ownership helps create environments where companies can thrive and helps empower leaders to build great companies. Exor does this by having an active role in the governance of the companies it owns and by working with fellow directors to create strong boards that can act as “critical friends” to those companies, challenging them to improve performance across all the dimensions of being a great company and supporting them when they face obstacles. Through this approach, Exor encourages its companies to set and achieve their sustainability goals while always being conscious of their autonomy. Some of the ways in which Exor supports its companies are outlined below. 1 CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE COMPANIES CAN THRIVE 2 EMPOWERING LEADERS TO BUILD GREAT COMPANIES 3 USING GOVERNANCE TO STEER OUR COMPANIES ✓Long-term committed capital ✓Use Exor's network to find new leaders ✓Build effective boards ✓Strong network ✓Act as a “critical-friend” to leaders in its companies ✓Support companies in their management successions ✓Support and challenge companies’ plans ✓Encourage the creation of strong and positive cultures ✓Play an active role in the boards of all its companies ✓Promote diversity and inclusiveness Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. It therefore recruits strong talent into its own organisation, offers equal opportunities, and creates a diverse and inclusive workforce. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair and it is the job of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them. AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Sustainability at Exor Exor publicly communicated its sustainability strategy in November 2021 at the Exor Investor Day, prior to which the strategy was presented to the ESG Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. In devising the strategy, Exor had carried out a detailed analysis to identify what topics were material for the Company as well as common across its investee companies, benchmarked the approach of other European holding peers, engaged with Exor employees from various functions, spoke to global sustainability leaders (both individuals & companies) and assessed international regulatory frameworks. As a result of this analysis, Exor established a set of key KPIs and targets it wanted to put in place for itself as well as an approach on how it would support its investee companies as a ""critical friend"" on their path to greatness. Exor believes that, to act in a responsible way, great companies should: • Align with best practices and reporting frameworks; • Identify priorities, set targets, measure and report progress; • Continue to raise the bar; • Aspire to industry sustainability leadership. 96 BOARD REPORT"
"Exor created a sustainability strategy that is structured into three parts: FOUNDATIONS • These are the fundamental sustainable governance procedures, policies and guidelines that Exor and its investee companies need to operate with integrity, responsibility and ethics PASSIONS • Exor has identified key passions that it expects all of its investee companies to pursue in ways that are aligned within their business strengths and priorities COMMUNICATION • Exor expects its investee companies to communicate their sustainability priorities and progress clearly to stakeholders and facilitates engagement across them to learn from each other and to work together where helpful Foundations Exor has identified a set of fundamental sustainable procedures, policies and guidelines that it applies to itself and encourages within all its companies. These foundational elements provide the starting conditions to create long-term sustainable value. They include but are not limited to: – Making sustainability a priority among leadership teams and boards; – Adopting a Code of Conduct and adhering to widely-recognised guidelines; – Implementing a whistle-blower mechanism; – Ensuring that risks are evaluated and mitigants are identified periodically. Exor will continue to review and add to this list of foundational elements over time. Passions In addition to these foundational elements, Exor has identified three “passions” that it is pursuing at Exor level and which it champions with its companies. While Exor respects the independence of its companies, it encourages all of them to adopt these passions as part of their sustainability plans. These passions have deep roots – they have emerged from Exor’s history and values, and have been refined through its discussions with stakeholders. Emissions reduction Education Diversity and inclusion We are committed to 21st century sustainable manufacturing with a clear path to carbon neutrality We have a history of championing the life changing power of education We believe hiring and empowering diverse talent leads to better business results Exor has made commitments in relation to each of these passions at holding company level and encourages all investee companies to include them in their own sustainability thinking. BOARD REPORT 97"
"Exor sustainability passions Commitments at Exor (holding level) Supporting its companies to: Emissions reduction • Achieve carbon neutrality by 2022 and net zero emissions by 2025 • Set reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions and measure Scope 3 Education • Reduce the gender gap in STEM subjects • Help high potential young entrepreneurs • Pursue company-relevant educational initiatives accompanied by clear metrics and targets Diversity and inclusion • Maintain 40/60 gender balance and consider diverse candidates for all new appointments • Set diversity targets and measure & report progress against them Emissions reduction: while its environmental impact as a standalone company is limited given its size, Exor still has a responsibility to reduce its own emissions. Exor has established a sustainable path towards climate neutrality, with specific targets and objectives at holding level, namely, to continue maintaining the carbon neutral status which Exor reached in 2022 for the coming years and net-zero emissions on a voluntary basis by 2025 (Scope 1 and 2). The Company continued working on identifying decarbonisation levers for its own operations in 2024 and maintains its focus on the accuracy of the calculations as it aims to reduce its GHG footprint (please refer to section 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change for more information). Actions taken in 2024 include switching the electricity supply of the London office to fully renewable sources and further office management actions. Carbon neutrality in 2024 was also achieved through offsetting its remaining emissions at its own operations level through a Ugandan reforestation project. The project consists of a long-term community-led agroforestry program with the aim to increase carbon sequestration, encourage sustainable land use practices, and provide performance based payments to farmers. The project is of key relevance as it aligns with Exor's passions for education and diversity & inclusion, and it focuses on educating and improving farmers' knowledge as well as on community involvement (particularly women) in land use planning. Exor encourages its investee companies to set reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions and measure Scope 3 emissions. Education: Exor commits to reducing the gender gap in STEM subjects via the Matabì initiative - Exor's flagship educational programme carried out in collaboration with Fondazione Agnelli. Please refer to the section on Matabì on page 126-127 for more information. Exor encourages its investee companies to pursue company-relevant educational initiatives accompanied by clear metrics and targets. Diversity and Inclusion: Exor commits to maintaining 40/60 gender balance and considering diverse candidates for all new appointments. Exor encourages its investee companies to set diversity targets and measure and report progress against them. More information can be found in section 3.2 Diversity and inclusion, reported on page 125-126. Communication Exor’s passions are aligned with a sub-set of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as shown below. Exor is using these for communication at the holding level and is also encouraging their use at investee level. 98 BOARD REPORT"
"Emissions reduction Education: decreasing inequalities and promoting innovation Diversity and inclusion Interests and views of stakeholders Exor strongly believes in maintaining a continuous dialogue with internal and external stakeholders. At the company level, the views of major stakeholder groups have been gathered using the engagement methods described below. Stakeholders are engaged for different purposes, as described in the table below. Stakeholder Areas of focus Engagement methods Exor employees Motivation and development, equal opportunities, health and safety, ethical business conduct and values Regular meetings and communications, annual review of objectives, internal initiatives and compensation Investors & analysts, rating agencies, media Market transparency, communications, financial and non-financial performance Annual and half-year reporting, investor events, meetings with investors, corporate website, press releases Investee companies Progress on paths to greatness, enablers and next steps Active representation and participation in the boards, regular communication and meetings Authorities and regulators Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, risk management Annual report and half-year reporting, corporate website and ad-hoc interactions where necessary Exor is committed to: – Maintaining a regular dialogue with each of these stakeholder groups; – Incorporating the needs and perspectives of Exor's stakeholders to generate value, shape the strategy and sustainability approach and support the identification of impacts, risks, and opportunities; – Being clear about its purpose, its values and its priorities both internally and externally; – Providing relevant information to each stakeholder group, while being accessible and responsive; – Promoting transparent capital markets, while aligning to best practices and disclosing information in an accurate, complete, balanced and reliable manner. The ESG Committee is informed twice a year on the progress of Exor's sustainability strategy and its various components. At these meetings, Exor presents the views and interests of stakeholders as part of its updates and, on occasion, invites stakeholders as guest presenters on certain topics. The Board of Directors also receives an annual update on Exor's sustainability strategy which presents the views and interests of stakeholders. With reference to the employees category, they are regularly engaged through an annual anonymous employee engagement survey, the annual Exor Day (an inclusion event that brings together all employees from all Exor offices) and individual feedback sessions between managers and the respective teams they oversee. For further information related to the specific stakeholder engagement for the first double materiality analysis see below. BOARD REPORT 99"
"1.4.The Double Materiality Assessment The process and methodology The double materiality assessment (DMA) identifies which sustainability topics are material for Exor and the subsequent sustainability disclosures that will be reported in line with the ESRS standards. Topics are deemed material if they exceed a threshold in terms of impact and/or financial materiality. Exor’s materiality assessment was conducted through a comprehensive process that aimed to identify, assess and prioritise both potential and actual impacts on people and the environment (inside-out approach), as well as risks and opportunities that may in turn have a financial effect on the company (outside-in approach). The DMA was carried out with a systematic process starting with a regulatory context analysis to outline how to apply CSRD reporting to an investment entity. Then a benchmark analysis was conducted on peers and best practitioners in order to identify the main themes applicable to Exor as an investor. Focus was also given to assessing Exor's value chain through its activities, geographies, business relationships and its main stakeholders such as its investee companies. Based on these results, a list of potential relevant impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) for Exor’s own operations and value chain were identified. As Exor is an investment entity, its own operations refer to Exor and its subsidiaries that provide investment-related support services, which is consistent with the Company's financial reporting. For value chain operations, the focus of the DMA was mainly on the downstream value chain related to Exor's investee companies arising from Exor's role as an investment entity. The downstream value chain relates only to the investee company and not the value chains of the investee companies themselves. The upstream value chain activities, as described above, were deemed irrelevant from a materiality perspective and therefore excluded. With regard to the identification process of IROs for the downstream value chain, it is important to note that the approach considered Exor's role as an investor in the investees, in line with its investment entity status. Exor has screened and analysed the business activities, operations and sectors of its main investee companies in order to identify actual and potential impacts, risks and opportunities in its downstream value chain, in particular related to climate change, pollution, water resource, biodiversity, circular economy and governance. Investee companies were analysed by sector. Where applicable, primary sources of information were used from investee companies, who had already performed their own DMAs. In particular, the results of the DMAs from the five largest public investee companies that represented 77% of the total GAV at 31 December 2024 were analysed and taken as primary data. This primary data covered the following ESRS sectors: Motor Vehicles and Medical Instruments. For the remaining sectors in the portfolio where primary information was not available (Recreation and Leisure, Textiles, Accessories, Footwear and Jewellery and Information Technology), IROs were selected based on what was assessed from SASB and MSCI Materiality Matrix. Thus, given Exor's large portfolio, it is clear that Exor has not directly performed technical analysis on environmental and governance impacts, risks and opportunities at investee level, except from climate change, however it relied on primary sources from the main investee companies and from sector data. Please find information on the assessment of climate risks and opportunities in section 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change. Risks and opportunities were identified starting from impacts and dependencies on resources and relationships, and in line with Exor's risk assessment and prior year TCFD reports. When assessing impact materiality, Exor addressed actual and potential negative impacts based on an average scoring of their scale, scope and irremediable character multiplied by likelihood. In the specific case of potential negative impacts on human rights, the scale was weighted as a more important factor than likelihood. For positive impacts, Exor used an average scoring of their scale and scope multiplied by likelihood. When assessing financial materiality, Exor addressed likelihood, magnitude (including the nature of the financial effects of the identified risks and opportunities), in line with the methodology and assessment used in Exor’s risk assessment and prior year TCFD reports. In performing the overall risk assessment sustainability-related risks were evaluated in the same manner as other risks to which Exor is exposed without giving a higher level of priority. Exor's risk assessment does not yet integrate all of the risks identified in the DMA process, however in the future an alignment exercise will be conducted. For further information see Risk Management - Key Risks and Key Trends. 100 BOARD REPORT"
"Impacts, risks and opportunities scoring regarding the value chain were weighted based on the portion of the GAV of the sector that the IRO was relevant to. Both the impact and financial materiality assessments used a scale of 1 to 5. Using a quantitative threshold of 12.5 for both perspectives (out of 25), Exor determined the relevant IROs for Exor's own operations and value chain and mapped them to the appropriate sustainability matter for reporting purposes. During the double materiality process, Exor consulted and involved a cross-functional set of employees in all steps of the process in order to guarantee the engagement of key internal stakeholders from the reporting, investments and legal teams as well as Exor's CFO and COO. Following the drafting of the DMA, stakeholder engagement, through specific interviews, was performed with a wider set of employees across all levels of the Company, investee companies beyond the five largest public ones and institutional investors in Exor to validate the results of the DMA through CSRD-focused interviews. The aim was to help ensure that the results accurately reflected the expectations and needs of various relevant stakeholder groups. The stakeholder engagement performed confirmed the initial results of the DMA and no new IROs or changes to material topics were identified. In the perspective of continuous improvement of the double materiality process that was carried out for the first time for the preparation of this Sustainability Statement, Exor will reflect on how to update the DMA analysis and structure a formal stakeholder engagement as an annual process given that it will refresh the double materiality assessment and review sustainability-related IROs on an annual basis. In addition, Exor will evaluate whether specific internal control procedures for the sustainability reporting are required. The process and results of the DMA were presented to a combined Audit and ESG Committee on 22 November 2024 and were then approved by the Board of Directors on 25 November 2024. The DMA results The outcome of the double materiality assessment identified a number of material IROs across Exor's own operations and the downstream value chain, related to seven ESRS topics. The material IROs are summarised in the table below, grouped and categorised into the following seven material topics: i. Emissions reduction and climate change; ii. Environmental impacts across the value chain; iii. Exor employees; iv. Diversity and inclusion; v. Working conditions in the value chain; vi. End users in the value chain; and vii. Corporate culture and business ethics. These topics will guide the structure of the present Sustainability Statement. There are no current financial effects from material risks and opportunities on Exor's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The ESRS topics of Water and Marine Resources, Biodiversity and Ecosystems and Affected Communities were not identified as material, as their related IROs did not exceed the threshold. Water and Marine Resources (E3) has been evaluated as not relevant since water consumption in business as usual of the sectors in which Exor's main investees operate is not significant. Biodiversity and Ecosystems (E4) has been evaluated as not relevant since the sites of Exor's main investees are not located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas. Affected Communities (S3) has been evaluated as not relevant since Exor's business model does not impact or is not impacted by local communities. Moreover, investee companies operations do not need licences to operate for their business as usual and do not have a significant impact on communities. For further elaboration on each material topic and related IROs, please refer to the topic-specific section's disclosures. For the resilience analysis conducted in relation to climate change, please refer to section 2.2 BOARD REPORT 101"
"Emissions reduction and climate change, reported on page 108. No other topic has been covered by a resilience analysis. ESRS Topic Material Topic Impact Financial E1 Climate Change Emissions reduction and climate change Negative actual impact in the value chain: GHG emissions generated by the motor vehicle sector contributing to climate change (including resource extraction and production of materials, transport, industrial processes, GHG emissions from the vehicles sold and the vehicles' end of life). (Short-Medium-Long term) Positive actual impact in the value chain: reduction of CO2 emissions through the sale of alternative products and services and low- carbon vehicles (batteries, alternative fuels, etc.). (Short-Medium-Long term) Risk in own operations: investment entities whose investments are in high-emissions sectors can potentially risk poorer investment returns as markets and regulations transition to a greener economic model. Other potential factors that could lead to weaker investment returns include technological shifts, fluctuations in supply and demand and policy changes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Risk in the value chain: business interruptions, loss in revenues, reduced product availability and an increase in repair costs or damaged buildings at an investee level caused by extreme weather events (hurricanes and floods) as well as longer shifts in climate patterns potentially leading to droughts, heat waves and water stress. (Short-Medium term) Risk in the value chain: reputational damage and loss of financial support due to failure to meet stakeholders' increasing expectations related to climate commitments and transparency of investee companies, also caused by delays in securing carbon removal technologies and new technology for electrification. (Medium-Long term) Opportunity in the value chain: the increasing customer demand and regulatory requirements for energy-efficient vehicles and equipment with a lower environmental impact may lead to expanded market share and revenue growth for investee companies. (Short-Medium-Long term) E2 Pollution Environmental impacts across the value chain Risk in the value chain: environmental and health issues caused by the air pollution related to operations at investee-company level, especially related to industrial processes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Risk in the value chain: the emergence of laws regarding the use of harmful substances in consumer products of manufacturing/ industrial investee companies may lead to increased regulatory oversight and financial losses due to reputational harm.(Short- Medium-Long Term) 102 BOARD REPORT"
"The sustainability matters identified as “material” for Exor, for impact materiality, financial materiality, or both, are those that exceed the threshold described above. The material topics identified in the DMA as described above, as well as more detailed descriptions of their associated IROs and sub topics, are presented in the next sections across the environmental, social and governance sections. A comprehensive list of the ESRS disclosure requirements that Exor adheres to is found in the ESRS Content Index table at the end of the Sustainability Statement. Moreover, a list of data points derived from other EU legislation is provided, offering a comprehensive overview of the relevant information is provided in the section ESRS Content Index and EU Legislation Datapoints. 2. Environmental information 2.1 EU Taxonomy disclosure Introduced by the European Union in June 2020, the Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (the Regulation) provides a classification system defining which economic activity can be considered as environmentally sustainable. The Regulation, which is part of a set of provisions implemented to reach the goal of making Europe a climate- neutral region by 2050, is designed to help private investors direct their flows to more sustainable economic activities avoiding cases of greenwashing. An economic activity is considered eligible if it is listed in the Regulation and can therefore potentially contribute to realising at least one of six environmental objectives: EU Taxonomy Objectives 1) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 2) Climate change adaptation (CCA) 3) Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources (WTR) 4) Transition to a circular economy (CE) 5) Pollution prevention and control (PPC) 6) Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO) Taxonomy alignment of activities is set out in Article 3 of the Regulation: • contributes substantially to one or more of the environmental objectives by meeting the technical screening criteria defined for this economic activity; • does no significant harm to the other five objectives; and • complies with the minimum safeguards The Climate Delegated Act was published by the commission on June 4 2021 and came into effect in 2022. The Climate Delegated Act regulates the first two objectives – Climate Change Mitigation and Climate Change Adaptation – establishing technical screening criteria for economic activities that can contribute substantially to them causing no significant harm to any of the other environmental objective. During 2023, the European Commission published: – the Delegated Act 2023/2485 (published on 27 June 2023) which amended the Climate Delegated Act by introducing new activities and establishing additional technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which certain economic activities qualify to contribute substantially to the first two existing objectives – Climate Change Mitigation and Climate Change Adaptation. – The “Environmental Delegated Act” (published on 21 November 2023), which establishes the technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which an economic activity qualifies as contributing substantially to the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, to the transition to a 106 BOARD REPORT"
"circular economy, to pollution prevention and control, or to the protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems and for determining whether that economic activity causes no significant harm to any of the other environmental objectives. In the reporting and financial year of 2023, companies in scope had to disclose, in addition to the KPIs related to eligible and aligned activities to the two environmental objectives, also the portion of turnover, CapEx and OpEx of their “Taxonomy-eligible” and “Taxonomy-non eligible” activities for the other four environmental objectives. From the reporting and financial year of 2024 onwards, instead, companies are required to report also on the alignment of the activities that contribute substantially to the other four environmental objectives. For 2023 reporting, Exor’s EU-Taxonomy assessment reported the KPIs as a consolidated result of its operating subsidiaries (CNH Industrial, Iveco Group, Ferrari, GEDI, Juventus) that identified eligible and aligned activities in consistency with the criteria reported in the Regulation (EU) 2020/852. For 2024, Exor changed its financial reporting to that of an investment entity under IFRS 10. As a consequence, in order to align the scope of EU-Taxonomy reporting consistently with how turnover, CapEx and OpEx are presented in the consolidated financial statements, the EU-Taxonomy assessment for 2024 includes only Exor and the entities which it consolidates that provide investment services. For the reporting for the financial year 2024, an assessment of the eligibility of the activities of Exor and its consolidated subsidiaries was performed, matching them with those listed in the Delegated Regulations (Climate Delegated Act, Complementary Climate Delegated Act, Environmental Delegated Act and Delegated Act 2023/2485) of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. There were no eligible activities identified, therefore no further assessment has been carried out. In addition, based on paragraph 1.1.3. of the Delegated Regulation, Exor considers the value of the denominator of the KPI related to OpEx, as required by the Regulation, to be immaterial for the business model. Therefore, Exor has not conducted the analysis for calculating the numerator of the KPI related to OpEx. All tables related to the EU Taxonomy are outlined in the Annex of this Sustainability Statement on page 144-150. BOARD REPORT 107"
"2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change Relevant sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities Climate change adaptation Risk in own operations: investment entities whose investments are in high-emissions sectors can potentially risk poorer investment returns as markets and regulations transition to a greener economic model. Other potential factors that could lead to weaker investment returns include technological shifts, fluctuations in supply and demand and policy changes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Risk in the value chain: business interruptions, loss in revenues, reduced product availability and an increase in repair costs or damaged buildings at an investee level caused by extreme weather events (hurricane, floods) as well as longer shifts in climate patterns potentially leading to droughts, heat waves and water stress. (Short-Medium term) Climate change mitigation Negative actual impact in the value chain: GHG emissions generated by the motor vehicle sector contributing to climate change (including resource extraction and production of materials, transport, industrial processes, GHG emissions from the vehicles sold and the vehicles' end of life). (Short-Medium-Long term) Positive actual impact in the value chain: reduction of CO2 emissions through the sale of alternative products and services and low-carbon vehicles (batteries, alternative fuels, etc.). (Short-Medium-Long term) Risk in the value chain: reputational damage and loss of financial support due to failure to meet stakeholders' increasing expectations related to climate commitments and transparency of investee companies, also caused by delays in securing carbon removal technologies and new technology for electrification. (Medium-Long term) Opportunity in the value chain: the increasing customer demand and regulatory requirements for energy-efficient vehicles and equipment with a lower environmental impact may lead to expanded market share and revenue growth for investee companies. (Short-Medium-Long term) The DMA identified climate change as the most material topic and as sub-topics climate change mitigation for the downstream value chain (investee companies) and climate change adaptation for both its own operations and the value chain. Given its nature, Exor has carried out a resilience assessment of its strategy and business model in relation to climate change for its downstream value chain activities through its investee companies, who operate across diverse sectors and play a key role in the transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. This exposes Exor to sector-specific risks and opportunities, which it addresses by analysing climate scenarios aligned with a 2°C or lower pathway. These analyses help Exor assess its strategy’s resilience and are considered as part of overall capital allocation decisions. In 2023, Exor identified its climate-related risks and opportunities in line with TCFD recommendations, based on its composition and has quantitatively assessed those that are most relevant. The investee companies in scope were Ferrari, Stellantis, CNH Industrial and Iveco Group, as they account for approximately 99% of the CO2 emissions deriving from the investee companies and considering the nature of their business, they are likely to have a high level of exposure to both transition and physical climate change risks and opportunities in the short, medium and long term. Climate-related scenario analysis Scenario analysis Exor's resilience strategy has been assessed at the investee company level by considering different climate scenarios defined by internationally accredited providers (IEA, IPCC - SSP/RCP), which use advanced statistical modelling in order to give representation of climate state and climate-related policy evolution. 108 BOARD REPORT"
"Climate change effects could have extended impacts over time, often exacerbated in the long term, and scenario analysis is useful to better understand potential negative or positive impacts on Exor’s business, strategy and financial planning in the short term (by 2027), medium term (by 2031) and long term (by 2036). The impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities are evaluated starting from reference scenarios, which represent the strategic overview of each of the investee companies in scope as publicly disclosed. Reference scenarios are then reviewed in relation to physical and transitional climate factors, which are more or less stressed in alternative scenarios, according to the expected climate-related development. Exor identified four different climate pathway scenarios, also taking into consideration assets and infrastructure, which could encompass climate-related policy evolution, climate change effects on socioeconomic development and direct physical effects on the global environmental state due to the expected increase of global mean temperature. The identified scenarios are the following: • “Business as usual” scenario (IEA - STEPS, IPCC - SSP2/RCP6) which represents the current “as is” situation in terms of the regulatory framework in place to fight climate change issues and, consequently, of external market variables following the current trend. It also considers both current socio-economic development and population projections, connected to long-term trends of climate change effects on the environment, as expected today; • “Slowed down” scenario (IPCC - SSP3/RCP6), with long-term trends reflecting today's expectations on climate effects on the environment, represents a slower socio-economic development, with fragmentation between advanced and developing countries. This would result in overall higher global population projections; • “Intermediate” scenario (IEA - APS), which assumes that all climate commitments announced by governments around the world to fight climate change are met successfully. This scenario is considered as a step towards the most ambitious results, but not yet sufficient to reach net-zero emissions. • “Accelerated” scenario (IEA - NZE, IPCC - SSP1/RCP2.6), describes a regulatory framework set to reach the most ambitious targets of emission reduction by 2050 (Net Zero). In this scenario, the market demand is strongly focused on sustainable products and green energy transition. It also assumes socio- economic development based on sustainability, connected to less critical climate change effects on the environmental state, which results in lower global population projections. Risks and Opportunities Due to the complexity of the investee companies, both in terms of industry heterogeneity, high profile and market relevance, Exor adopted a bottom-up approach to identify climate change risks and opportunities, considering their respective climate-related commitment and disclosure maturity. Exor started by analysing risks and opportunities identified by the in-scope investee companies and subsequently identified the most relevant cross-companies climate risks and opportunities for Exor as a company based on material financial impact in terms of Gross Asset Value (GAV) and future investment return. The investee companies in scope operate in the automotive, agriculture and construction, luxury performance sports cars, commercial vehicles and powertrains industries. Although those industries have their own specificities and characteristics, there are certain transitional and physical climate-related risks and opportunities in common. For this reason, Exor has assessed the climate risks and opportunities that might have a significant impact on its GAV. The following tables represent climate-related risks and opportunities that have been assessed through scenario analysis. BOARD REPORT 109"
"Climate-related Risks Description # Classification Risk Event Impact description 1 (Transition) Policy & Legal: new or more stringent regulations on carbon pricing mechanism on Scope 1 & 2 in specific countries where investee companies mainly operate. Introduction of new regulation on carbon pricing mechanism and potential increase of carbon tax on Scope 1 & 2. Impact on Exor's GAV due to the increase of investee-company operating costs related to cash outflows for the payment of carbon tax due to emerging regulation and increase of carbon prices. 2 (Transition) Market: rapid spread of low emission products is increasing sharply and it is expected to keep growing in the future. Inability of the investee companies to adapt in time to the transition of electric vehicles (BEV and FCEV). Impact on Exor's GAV due to potential loss in revenues at investee-company level due to electric vehicle strategy roll out not being aligned with future market demand in the different climate pathway scenarios. 3 (Transition) Policy & Legal: more stringent regulations on CO2 emissions thresholds for vehicles sold based on portfolio mix in countries where it is applicable. Higher penalties for exceeding CO2 emissions levels applied to investee- company vehicles sold in specific countries based on portfolio composition. Impact on Exor's GAV due to the increase in investee-company operating costs related to the payment of penalties for exceeding CO2 emissions levels for vehicles. 4 (Physical) Acute: event-driven risks including increased severity of extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and floods. (Physical) Chronic: longer-term shifts in climate patterns might cause droughts, heat waves and water stress. Business interruption or loss in productivity at investee-company level. Impact on Exor's GAV due to loss in revenues, reduced product availability and an increase in repair costs of damaged buildings at investee-company level. Climate-related Opportunities Description # Classification Opportunity Event Impact description 1 (Transition) Product and services, Technology: development of new products and services through R&D and innovation Investee companies product portfolio extension, through the development of precision farming solutions and hydrogen technology. Impact on Exor's GAV due to an increase in investee-company revenues related to the development of new products and services. 2 (Transition) Energy efficiency: energy efficiency projects through decarbonisation strategy Energy efficiency projects, aimed primarily at reducing CO2 emissions and reaching decarbonisation targets at investee level. Impact on Exor's GAV due to operating costs savings at investee- company level. 110 BOARD REPORT"
"Climate-related Opportunities Impact - Scenario analysis # Climate factor Risk event Scenario Time horizon Short term Medium term Long term 1 Socio-economic development, market demand of food, changes in customer preferences, increase of global temperature Investee companies' product portfolio extension, through the development of precision farming solutions and hydrogen technology A Marginal Marginal Marginal C Marginal Marginal Marginal D Marginal Marginal Marginal 2 Shifting to renewable energy sources Energy efficiency projects at the investee level, aimed primarily at reducing CO2 emissions and reaching decarbonisation targets A Marginal Limited Limited C Marginal Marginal Marginal D Marginal Limited Medium Scenarios: A (business as usual), B (intermediate scenario), C (accelerated scenario) and D (slowed-down) Economic thresholds (% of GAV at risk): No impact (0% ), Marginal (0-0.25%), Limited (0.25-1%), Medium (1-2%), Significant (2-4%) and Extreme (>4%) All the in-scope investee companies have decarbonisation strategies to reduce their Scope 1 & 2 emissions related to manufacturing processes and production facilities, thus the evolution of carbon tax and its price increase, in the considered scenarios, would have little impact on Exor’s GAV in the period of analysis. According to the IEA World Energy Outlook, climate-related scenarios forecasted prices are in line with the 2022 assessment, except the business-as-usual scenario, which reports a restrained increase. Considering the main industries that the investee companies operate in, major effort is associated with the transition towards lower emissions vehicles - BEV and FCEV (passenger cars, commercial vehicles, agricultural machinery, and luxury performance sports cars). In particular, the assessed risk is related to the inability of the in-scope investee companies to adapt in time to the transition towards electric vehicles, and it may result in a loss in revenues and competitiveness with a potential negative financial impact on Exor GAV. Electric vehicles' sales growth rate changes differently in climate scenarios and in markets where the investee companies operate, with major growth expected in the accelerated scenario rather than in the intermediate or business as usual ones, even if electric vehicles' sales growth rate in the business-as-usual scenario has shown a strong increase with respect to the 2022 assessment. As a result of the analysis, the portfolio assessment showed a high level of resilience in all the climate change scenarios and reference time frames. In-scope investee companies’ transition plans towards BEV and FCEV vehicles demonstrate alignment with industry specificities and to future BEV market development in the geographies where they operate. Furthermore, the transition towards low emission vehicles is necessary to comply with vehicle emissions regulations, which are expected to be more stringent in the future. The failure to comply with these regulations may result in considerable penalties and reputational damages at the level of the in-scope investee companies and, as a consequence, negatively impact Exor’s GAV. Compliance with vehicle emissions regulations can be achieved through the development of new technologies (e.g. electric drive systems), that usually require large capital investments. The in-scope investee companies have already presented low emission vehicles roll out plans and electrification strategies as part of their strategic targets. The investee companies are switching towards the production of low emissions vehicles, which supports the high level of resilience of the portfolio to the tightening of emissions thresholds for cars, vans and trucks manufacturers, in all climate change scenarios and time frames in the analysis. BOARD REPORT 113"
"Nonetheless, with respect to climate-related risks and opportunities, GHG emissions and decarbonisation strategies are not the only relevant issues that could affect the main industries of Exor's investee companies. Acute and chronic physical risks such as heat waves, droughts and water stress, could cause business interruption or a loss in productivity in the investee companies. From Exor’s point of view, given the geographic diversification and the extended manufacturing network of the investee companies, it is unlikely that the identified climate factors occur everywhere at the same time. This means a lower financial risk impact for Exor’s GAV, with respect to a single in-scope investee company risk which could be more relevant. Potential opportunities could also be driven by the expansion of the product portfolio currently in place. The shift in consumer preferences towards sustainable solutions, driven by increased climate-awareness, requires manufacturers to adapt to evolving market demands. The investee companies have already developed new sustainable products and services, and they will continue to enlarge their product portfolio through the development of sustainable products and services to capture the growth potential in the reference markets of precision farming solutions, electric agricultural equipment and hydrogen powered solutions for commercial vehicles. Technology innovation could help realise market opportunities by using more efficient digital equipment; for instance, in the agricultural business, climate change will affect global food demand projections and, at the same time, will increase the need to make the best use of cultivable land. The investee companies working in this segment are already implementing precision farming solutions, which will become indispensable solutions for future agriculture management, above all in the slowed-down climate scenario, where global food consumption is greater due to high demographic projections. Another climate-related opportunity that Exor identified across its largest public investee companies is related to the development of energy efficiency projects through decarbonisation strategy. All of the investee companies in the scope of the analysis have energy efficiency projects in the pipeline, aimed primarily at reducing CO2 emissions and reaching decarbonisation targets. Energy efficiency investments will generate operating cost savings which, from Exor’s portfolio perspective, could result in opportunities both in terms of economic value (indirect impact on GAV due to savings on investees operating costs) and reputation. In fact, an investee company committing to reach carbon neutrality could result in higher access to capital, for example through the financing of new and existing projects with environmental benefits, using alternative financing solutions such as green bonds. Exor will continue to monitor the relevant physical and transition risks with the aim of reducing their potential impacts through risk-response strategy and, at the same time, will also be seeking new climate-related opportunities in the sectors in which its investee companies operate. Moreover, Exor will monitor other potential and relevant climate-related risks and opportunities arising from the expansion of its portfolio with other investee companies. 2.2.1 Approach to climate change in Exor Impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change are primarily focused on Exor's downstream value chain. Although the sub-topic climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations given its limited size as an outcome of the double materiality assessment, Exor reached and maintained the carbon neutral status in 2023, as described in section 1.3 Strategy and business model. Climate change adaptation emerged as a material matter for Exor due to the risk of investing in high-emissions sectors that could lead to poorer investment returns as markets and regulations to transition to a greener economic model. As disclosed above, climate change adaptation arises due to Exor's business as an investor and not as a result of its general operating activities. Considering the nature of the investments and the wide sectors in which Exor invests, it does not have policy or actions related to this topic. Exor, however, considers climate change as part of its due diligence process when evaluating new investments. 114 BOARD REPORT"
"2.2.2 Emissions reduction in the value chain Exor encourages its investee companies to set reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions and measure Scope 3 emissions by sharing best practices as well as supporting and challenging their respective sustainability strategies via its board representation. Investee companies like Philips and Iveco Group have publicly committed to Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) goals, reinforcing their dedication to emissions reduction and net-zero ambitions. Exor also encourages all of its public investee companies to have robust sustainability governance, adhere to international guidelines, and implement risk evaluation systems to address climate risks. Notable efforts include CNH Industrial and Ferrari’s leadership in sustainable practices, Stellantis’ expansion in electric vehicles (EVs), and Iveco Group’s focus on low-carbon solutions. Exor continues to champion climate action across its portfolio, driving a collective transition towards a sustainable future. Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Climate Change Mitigation 5 100% 4 88% 5 100% 5 100% Climate Change Adaptation 4 44% 3 32% 4 44% 2 30% % of adjusted GAV: total contribution of # of investee companies (from Ferrari, Stellantis, Philips, CNH and Iveco Group) divided by the total GAV contribution of those 5 companies As illustrated in the above table, climate change mitigation is a key priority for Exor’s investee companies, as reducing emissions, adopting sustainable practices, and meeting climate goals are vital for both their environmental responsibility and long-term success, given their industrial context. At the same time, these companies are vulnerable to the impacts of climate change like extreme weather events and hazards. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: Ferrari's Environmental Practice highlights its commitment to minimising its environmental impact. The company focuses on cutting greenhouse gas emissions throughout product life cycles, minimising water use, reusing waste materials, monitoring emissions, and protecting biodiversity in affected areas. Ferrari's decarbonization strategy defined in 2022 is aligned with the trajectory “well below 2°C” in order to contribute to ambitions at the international, national and regional level and entails a reduction of at least 90% of Scope 1 and 2 (market-based method) absolute CO2eq emissions and a reduction of at least 40% of Scope 3 emissions per car, with respect to 2021. In this context, Ferrari's most significant environmental efforts are deployed through a program for the reduction of polluting and GHG emissions, both direct and indirect. • Stellantis: Stellantis has undertaken key actions to address climate change by preventing, mitigating, and remediating its impacts, while also managing climate-related risks and opportunities. These initiatives align with the company's policy objectives and GHG emission reduction targets, as outlined in its Dare Forward strategic plan (reducing absolute GHG emissions across scopes 1, 2, and 3 compared to the 2021 base year, lowering GHG emissions intensity per vehicle across these scopes, and reducing absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions). Stellantis focuses on three main decarbonisation levers: a low- carbon product portfolio, a sustainable supply chain, and the efficiency of its own operations. BOARD REPORT 115"
"• Philips: Philips has defined a Climate Action Program, which aims to reduce emissions across the entire value chain. The company has set emission reduction targets approved by the SBTi, aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Key actions include energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels, using renewable energy, and collaborating with suppliers and customers to amplify the impact and reduce the footprint across the value chain. Exor's Carbon Footprint Exor believes that, in order to pursue its passion of emissions reduction, the starting point is to calculate and monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at its own operations level but in particular in relation to its investee companies. Exor has measured and disclosed all its GHG footprints from 2019, well before the Company was subject to the requirements of the CSRD, demonstrating its long-term vision and strong commitment to sustainability. Even though climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations, in addition to Scope 3 data, it has also disclosed information related to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in continuity with historical reporting. Exor has calculated its GHG inventory in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative classifies GHG emissions into three “Scopes”: • Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by Exor; • Scope 2 covers indirect emissions that Exor causes from the generation of purchased electricity; • Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that originate from the value chain of the reporting company. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated according to the activity-based method which allows the calculation of GHG emissions associated with the company-specific activities, processes and/or products on the basis of detailed consumption data such as energy bills and information provided by buildings’ owners (with IEA and DEFRA emission factors), while a hybrid approach was adopted for Scope 3 emissions, incorporating both activity-based (with DEFRA emission factors) and spend-based, (adapting EPA emission factors) or average- based methods, depending on the Scope 3 Category. The table shows Exor's GHG emissions, broken down into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 116 BOARD REPORT"
"All units are (tCO2eq) 2024 Milestones and target years 2025 2030 2050 △ (base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 n.a n.a n.a n.a Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) —% n.a n.a n.a n.a Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 25 n.a n.a n.a n.a Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 n.a n.a n.a n.a Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42,344,330 n.a n.a n.a n.a 1 Purchased goods and services 686 n.a n.a n.a n.a 2 Capital goods N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 3 Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 n.a n.a n.a n.a 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 5 n.a n.a n.a n.a 5 Waste generated in operations 1 n.a n.a n.a n.a 6 Business travel 176 n.a n.a n.a n.a 7 Employee commuting 8 n.a n.a n.a n.a 8 Upstream leased assets 4 n.a n.a n.a n.a 9 Downstream transportation N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 10 Processing of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 11 Use of sold products 0 n.a n.a n.a n.a 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 13 Downstream leased assets N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 14 Franchises N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 15 Investments 42,343,442 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 42,344,366 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions (market- based) 42,344,351 n.a n.a n.a n.a Given the nature and scale of its business activities, Scope 3 emissions represent the most significant share of Exor’s overall carbon footprint. In line with the GHG Protocol guidelines, Exor has conducted a detailed assessment of its operations and investment portfolio to determine the materiality of each Scope 3 category. As a result, Categories 9 (“Downstream transportation and distribution”), 10 (“Processing of sold products”), 12 (“End-of-life treatment of sold products”), 13 (“Downstream leased assets”), and 14 (“Franchises”) have been excluded from the footprint calculation, as they are not deemed relevant to Exor’s business model. At the same time, Category 4 (“Upstream transportation and distribution”) has been incorporated into the Scope 3 reporting perimeter as of 2023 to enhance the completeness of the emissions inventory. Beyond its direct operations — where Scope 3 emissions primarily stem from purchased goods and services, capital goods, and business travel — Exor’s investment portfolio constitutes the predominant driver of its emissions profile. The nature of Exor’s business model means that Category 15 (“Investments”) accounts for the vast majority of its carbon footprint. Accordingly, the assessment of financed emissions follows the PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, ensuring methodological robustness, transparency, and consistency with international best practices. BOARD REPORT 117"
"Relevant sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities Corporate culture Risk in own operations: the lack of transparency in Exor's tax approach and/or the wrong interpretation of tax regulations can cause reputational damage and sanctions. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Risk in own operations: the unauthorised use or access to company information due to an inadequate safeguard of the information itself, (breach of confidentiality and privacy), inadequate segregation of duties, cyber security and/or misuse of company name, like scamming. Geopolitical developments lead to an increase of cyber related attacks. (Short-Medium- Term) Protection of whistleblowers Positive actual impact in own operations: implementing a whistle-blower mechanism guarantees the protection of whistleblowers and a transparent corporate culture where stakeholders can report violations confidentiality. (Short- Medium-Long Term) Management of relationships with suppliers including payment practices Positive actual impact in the value chain: helping suppliers at an investee- company level to improve their responsible practices through industry collaboration and standardised responsible procurement practices. (Medium-Long Term) Corporate culture and protection of whistleblowers are the two sub-topics identified as relevant for Exor’s own operations. In particular, the risk of tax transparency and the positive impact of relying on a strong whistle- blower mechanism were assessed in consideration of Exor’s activity and location. Policies and corporate culture In relation to policies on business conduct matters, Exor has established mechanisms for identifying, reporting and investigating concerns about unlawful behaviour or behaviour that contradicts Exor’s Code of Conduct, including anti-bribery and corruption, and insider trading policies. Moreover, Exor has defined a tax approach in order to apply responsible tax behaviour and has also established rules addressing conflicts of interests, related party conflicts and the relationship with shareholders. Exor has in place an anti-bribery policy that supports the principles of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Code of Conduct As described in section 3.1, Exor employees, Exor’s governance model, regulating the decision-making process and approach of the Company and its employees in the interest of its stakeholders is firmly based on the Code. Together with the other policies and procedures of the Company, the Code of Conduct constitutes the primary set of values in the Exor governance framework. Exor conducts its business with integrity and with respect for all its stakeholders, while safeguarding its corporate image and reputation, by following and respecting the values, principles and commitments as laid down in the Code. Its rigorous observance is required of all people in the Company. During 2024, there were no reports made regarding non-compliance with the Code. Whistleblowing mechanism Exor has implemented a whistleblowing mechanism for its internal stakeholders to raise their concerns directly. All new employees are informed of the existence of the whistleblowing mechanism and policy and required to read it. No specific training is delivered to employees on The Exor Whistleblowing Service and it is managed by the Head of Legal. BOARD REPORT 133"
"Reporting a violation of the Code of Conduct helps, among other things, to protect Exor’s company’s reputation. Employees have a duty to report on a breach or a potential breach of the Code of Conduct, laws or our policies and procedures in respect of Exor and its organisation. Violations (or potential violations) of the Code of Conduct may be reported – anonymously – using The Exor Whistleblowing Service (accessible at the Company’s website) or by contacting the Head of Legal. All concerns raised are treated with the utmost confidentiality, protecting the information and data contained therein, as well as the identity of the party that raised the concern and the other parties involved. Any form of retaliation, threats, penalties or discrimination is expressly prohibited, both against these parties and against anyone who participated in the investigations. There is no specific measures for the protection of whistleblowers as these concepts are outlined in Exor's Code of Conduct. Exor does not currently have a policy for training within the organisation on business conduct. 4.1.2. Governance in the value chain Exor believes that a clear governance framework is essential to encouraging its companies to adopt its sustainability framework and through its presence in the boards of its companies, Exor champions and supports their progress on sustainability issues. Exor has no specific policies in place. Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Topics ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Business Conduct Management of relationships with suppliers including payment practices 5 100% 5 100% 5 100% 2 14% Exor’s investee companies implement policies that promote accountability, integrity, and fairness across their practices. This includes addressing fair and sustainable practices in relationships with suppliers across the value chain, which covers the proper implementation of payment practices. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: the company establishes clear relationships with suppliers through purchase contracts and the Statement of Commitment, ensuring compliance with the Code of Conduct and compliance practices. In 2024, Ferrari strengthened supplier engagement with Tier 1 and Tier 2 to reduce GHG emissions, collecting data through Life Cycle Assessments (LCA). In collaboration with Drive Sustainability, the company also monitored key suppliers’ ESG performance, promoting a more sustainable supply chain. • Stellantis: to promote stability, resilience and efficiency in its supply base, Stellantis has adopted strategic policies and procedures, including the Stellantis Code of Conduct which reflects the company’s core business conduct values and promotes fair and resilient business practices throughout the supply chain and Global Responsible Purchasing Guidelines, which establishes expectations regarding suppliers’ environmental, social and governance practices. 134 BOARD REPORT"
"ESRS Content Index Disclosure requirement and related datapoint Page number/paragraph Sustainability Statement 2024 ESRS 2 - GENERAL DISCLOSURES BP-1 General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation (see page 88) BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation (see page 89) GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 90-91) GOV-2 Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking's administrative, management and supervisory bodies General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 92) GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 92) GOV-4 Statement on due diligence General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 93-94) GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 94) SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model (see page 95-98) SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model (see page 98-99) SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment (see page 100- 105) IRO-1 Description of the process to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment (see page 99-100) IRO-2 Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking's Sustainability Statement General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment (see page 106) ESRS E1 CLIMATE CHANGE IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change (see page 108) E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change - 2.2.1 Approach to climate change in Exor (see page 114) BOARD REPORT 135"
"E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change - 2.2.1 Approach to climate change in Exor (see page 114) E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change - 2.2.1 Approach to climate change in Exor (see page 114) E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change - 2.2.2 Emission reduction in the value chain (see page 116-118) ESRS E2 POLLUTION IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E2-1 Policies related to pollution Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E2-3 Targets related to pollution Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) ESRS E5 RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) ESRS S1 OWN WORKFORCE SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model (see page 98-99) SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 121) S1-1 Policies related to own workforce Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 121-122) S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workforce and workers' representatives about impacts Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 123) 136 BOARD REPORT"
"S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 123) S1-4 Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 123-124) S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 124) S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking's employees Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 124) S1-9 Diversity metrics Social information - 3.2.1 Diversity in Exor (see page 125-126) S1-14 Health and safety metrics Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 125) S1-16 Remuneration metrics (pay gap and total remuneration) Social information - 3.2.1 Diversity in Exor (see page 126-128) S1-17 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts Social information - 3.2.1 Diversity in Exor (see page 128) ESRS S2 WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain (see page 128-129) S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain (see page 128-129) S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain (see page 128-129) S2-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain (see page 128-129) ESRS S4 CONSUMERS AND END-USERS SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain (see page 130-131) S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain (see page 130-131) S4-4 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end- users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain (see page 130-131) BOARD REPORT 137"
"Exor's ownership helps create environments where companies can thrive and helps empower leaders to build great companies. Exor does this by having an active role in the governance of the companies it owns and by working with fellow directors to create strong boards that can act as “critical friends” to those companies, challenging them to improve performance across all the dimensions of being a great company and supporting them when they face obstacles. Through this approach, Exor encourages its companies to set and achieve their sustainability goals while always being conscious of their autonomy. Some of the ways in which Exor supports its companies are outlined below. 1 CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE COMPANIES CAN THRIVE 2 EMPOWERING LEADERS TO BUILD GREAT COMPANIES 3 USING GOVERNANCE TO STEER OUR COMPANIES ✓Long-term committed capital ✓Use Exor's network to find new leaders ✓Build effective boards ✓Strong network ✓Act as a “critical-friend” to leaders in its companies ✓Support companies in their management successions ✓Support and challenge companies’ plans ✓Encourage the creation of strong and positive cultures ✓Play an active role in the boards of all its companies ✓Promote diversity and inclusiveness Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. It therefore recruits strong talent into its own organisation, offers equal opportunities, and creates a diverse and inclusive workforce. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair and it is the job of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them. AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Sustainability at Exor Exor publicly communicated its sustainability strategy in November 2021 at the Exor Investor Day, prior to which the strategy was presented to the ESG Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. In devising the strategy, Exor had carried out a detailed analysis to identify what topics were material for the Company as well as common across its investee companies, benchmarked the approach of other European holding peers, engaged with Exor employees from various functions, spoke to global sustainability leaders (both individuals & companies) and assessed international regulatory frameworks. As a result of this analysis, Exor established a set of key KPIs and targets it wanted to put in place for itself as well as an approach on how it would support its investee companies as a ""critical friend"" on their path to greatness. Exor believes that, to act in a responsible way, great companies should: • Align with best practices and reporting frameworks; • Identify priorities, set targets, measure and report progress; • Continue to raise the bar; • Aspire to industry sustainability leadership. 96 BOARD REPORT"
"Exor created a sustainability strategy that is structured into three parts: FOUNDATIONS • These are the fundamental sustainable governance procedures, policies and guidelines that Exor and its investee companies need to operate with integrity, responsibility and ethics PASSIONS • Exor has identified key passions that it expects all of its investee companies to pursue in ways that are aligned within their business strengths and priorities COMMUNICATION • Exor expects its investee companies to communicate their sustainability priorities and progress clearly to stakeholders and facilitates engagement across them to learn from each other and to work together where helpful Foundations Exor has identified a set of fundamental sustainable procedures, policies and guidelines that it applies to itself and encourages within all its companies. These foundational elements provide the starting conditions to create long-term sustainable value. They include but are not limited to: – Making sustainability a priority among leadership teams and boards; – Adopting a Code of Conduct and adhering to widely-recognised guidelines; – Implementing a whistle-blower mechanism; – Ensuring that risks are evaluated and mitigants are identified periodically. Exor will continue to review and add to this list of foundational elements over time. Passions In addition to these foundational elements, Exor has identified three “passions” that it is pursuing at Exor level and which it champions with its companies. While Exor respects the independence of its companies, it encourages all of them to adopt these passions as part of their sustainability plans. These passions have deep roots – they have emerged from Exor’s history and values, and have been refined through its discussions with stakeholders. Emissions reduction Education Diversity and inclusion We are committed to 21st century sustainable manufacturing with a clear path to carbon neutrality We have a history of championing the life changing power of education We believe hiring and empowering diverse talent leads to better business results Exor has made commitments in relation to each of these passions at holding company level and encourages all investee companies to include them in their own sustainability thinking. BOARD REPORT 97"
"Exor sustainability passions Commitments at Exor (holding level) Supporting its companies to: Emissions reduction • Achieve carbon neutrality by 2022 and net zero emissions by 2025 • Set reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions and measure Scope 3 Education • Reduce the gender gap in STEM subjects • Help high potential young entrepreneurs • Pursue company-relevant educational initiatives accompanied by clear metrics and targets Diversity and inclusion • Maintain 40/60 gender balance and consider diverse candidates for all new appointments • Set diversity targets and measure & report progress against them Emissions reduction: while its environmental impact as a standalone company is limited given its size, Exor still has a responsibility to reduce its own emissions. Exor has established a sustainable path towards climate neutrality, with specific targets and objectives at holding level, namely, to continue maintaining the carbon neutral status which Exor reached in 2022 for the coming years and net-zero emissions on a voluntary basis by 2025 (Scope 1 and 2). The Company continued working on identifying decarbonisation levers for its own operations in 2024 and maintains its focus on the accuracy of the calculations as it aims to reduce its GHG footprint (please refer to section 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change for more information). Actions taken in 2024 include switching the electricity supply of the London office to fully renewable sources and further office management actions. Carbon neutrality in 2024 was also achieved through offsetting its remaining emissions at its own operations level through a Ugandan reforestation project. The project consists of a long-term community-led agroforestry program with the aim to increase carbon sequestration, encourage sustainable land use practices, and provide performance based payments to farmers. The project is of key relevance as it aligns with Exor's passions for education and diversity & inclusion, and it focuses on educating and improving farmers' knowledge as well as on community involvement (particularly women) in land use planning. Exor encourages its investee companies to set reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions and measure Scope 3 emissions. Education: Exor commits to reducing the gender gap in STEM subjects via the Matabì initiative - Exor's flagship educational programme carried out in collaboration with Fondazione Agnelli. Please refer to the section on Matabì on page 126-127 for more information. Exor encourages its investee companies to pursue company-relevant educational initiatives accompanied by clear metrics and targets. Diversity and Inclusion: Exor commits to maintaining 40/60 gender balance and considering diverse candidates for all new appointments. Exor encourages its investee companies to set diversity targets and measure and report progress against them. More information can be found in section 3.2 Diversity and inclusion, reported on page 125-126. Communication Exor’s passions are aligned with a sub-set of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as shown below. Exor is using these for communication at the holding level and is also encouraging their use at investee level. 98 BOARD REPORT"
"Emissions reduction Education: decreasing inequalities and promoting innovation Diversity and inclusion Interests and views of stakeholders Exor strongly believes in maintaining a continuous dialogue with internal and external stakeholders. At the company level, the views of major stakeholder groups have been gathered using the engagement methods described below. Stakeholders are engaged for different purposes, as described in the table below. Stakeholder Areas of focus Engagement methods Exor employees Motivation and development, equal opportunities, health and safety, ethical business conduct and values Regular meetings and communications, annual review of objectives, internal initiatives and compensation Investors & analysts, rating agencies, media Market transparency, communications, financial and non-financial performance Annual and half-year reporting, investor events, meetings with investors, corporate website, press releases Investee companies Progress on paths to greatness, enablers and next steps Active representation and participation in the boards, regular communication and meetings Authorities and regulators Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, risk management Annual report and half-year reporting, corporate website and ad-hoc interactions where necessary Exor is committed to: – Maintaining a regular dialogue with each of these stakeholder groups; – Incorporating the needs and perspectives of Exor's stakeholders to generate value, shape the strategy and sustainability approach and support the identification of impacts, risks, and opportunities; – Being clear about its purpose, its values and its priorities both internally and externally; – Providing relevant information to each stakeholder group, while being accessible and responsive; – Promoting transparent capital markets, while aligning to best practices and disclosing information in an accurate, complete, balanced and reliable manner. The ESG Committee is informed twice a year on the progress of Exor's sustainability strategy and its various components. At these meetings, Exor presents the views and interests of stakeholders as part of its updates and, on occasion, invites stakeholders as guest presenters on certain topics. The Board of Directors also receives an annual update on Exor's sustainability strategy which presents the views and interests of stakeholders. With reference to the employees category, they are regularly engaged through an annual anonymous employee engagement survey, the annual Exor Day (an inclusion event that brings together all employees from all Exor offices) and individual feedback sessions between managers and the respective teams they oversee. For further information related to the specific stakeholder engagement for the first double materiality analysis see below. BOARD REPORT 99"
"1.4.The Double Materiality Assessment The process and methodology The double materiality assessment (DMA) identifies which sustainability topics are material for Exor and the subsequent sustainability disclosures that will be reported in line with the ESRS standards. Topics are deemed material if they exceed a threshold in terms of impact and/or financial materiality. Exor’s materiality assessment was conducted through a comprehensive process that aimed to identify, assess and prioritise both potential and actual impacts on people and the environment (inside-out approach), as well as risks and opportunities that may in turn have a financial effect on the company (outside-in approach). The DMA was carried out with a systematic process starting with a regulatory context analysis to outline how to apply CSRD reporting to an investment entity. Then a benchmark analysis was conducted on peers and best practitioners in order to identify the main themes applicable to Exor as an investor. Focus was also given to assessing Exor's value chain through its activities, geographies, business relationships and its main stakeholders such as its investee companies. Based on these results, a list of potential relevant impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) for Exor’s own operations and value chain were identified. As Exor is an investment entity, its own operations refer to Exor and its subsidiaries that provide investment-related support services, which is consistent with the Company's financial reporting. For value chain operations, the focus of the DMA was mainly on the downstream value chain related to Exor's investee companies arising from Exor's role as an investment entity. The downstream value chain relates only to the investee company and not the value chains of the investee companies themselves. The upstream value chain activities, as described above, were deemed irrelevant from a materiality perspective and therefore excluded. With regard to the identification process of IROs for the downstream value chain, it is important to note that the approach considered Exor's role as an investor in the investees, in line with its investment entity status. Exor has screened and analysed the business activities, operations and sectors of its main investee companies in order to identify actual and potential impacts, risks and opportunities in its downstream value chain, in particular related to climate change, pollution, water resource, biodiversity, circular economy and governance. Investee companies were analysed by sector. Where applicable, primary sources of information were used from investee companies, who had already performed their own DMAs. In particular, the results of the DMAs from the five largest public investee companies that represented 77% of the total GAV at 31 December 2024 were analysed and taken as primary data. This primary data covered the following ESRS sectors: Motor Vehicles and Medical Instruments. For the remaining sectors in the portfolio where primary information was not available (Recreation and Leisure, Textiles, Accessories, Footwear and Jewellery and Information Technology), IROs were selected based on what was assessed from SASB and MSCI Materiality Matrix. Thus, given Exor's large portfolio, it is clear that Exor has not directly performed technical analysis on environmental and governance impacts, risks and opportunities at investee level, except from climate change, however it relied on primary sources from the main investee companies and from sector data. Please find information on the assessment of climate risks and opportunities in section 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change. Risks and opportunities were identified starting from impacts and dependencies on resources and relationships, and in line with Exor's risk assessment and prior year TCFD reports. When assessing impact materiality, Exor addressed actual and potential negative impacts based on an average scoring of their scale, scope and irremediable character multiplied by likelihood. In the specific case of potential negative impacts on human rights, the scale was weighted as a more important factor than likelihood. For positive impacts, Exor used an average scoring of their scale and scope multiplied by likelihood. When assessing financial materiality, Exor addressed likelihood, magnitude (including the nature of the financial effects of the identified risks and opportunities), in line with the methodology and assessment used in Exor’s risk assessment and prior year TCFD reports. In performing the overall risk assessment sustainability-related risks were evaluated in the same manner as other risks to which Exor is exposed without giving a higher level of priority. Exor's risk assessment does not yet integrate all of the risks identified in the DMA process, however in the future an alignment exercise will be conducted. For further information see Risk Management - Key Risks and Key Trends. 100 BOARD REPORT"
"Impacts, risks and opportunities scoring regarding the value chain were weighted based on the portion of the GAV of the sector that the IRO was relevant to. Both the impact and financial materiality assessments used a scale of 1 to 5. Using a quantitative threshold of 12.5 for both perspectives (out of 25), Exor determined the relevant IROs for Exor's own operations and value chain and mapped them to the appropriate sustainability matter for reporting purposes. During the double materiality process, Exor consulted and involved a cross-functional set of employees in all steps of the process in order to guarantee the engagement of key internal stakeholders from the reporting, investments and legal teams as well as Exor's CFO and COO. Following the drafting of the DMA, stakeholder engagement, through specific interviews, was performed with a wider set of employees across all levels of the Company, investee companies beyond the five largest public ones and institutional investors in Exor to validate the results of the DMA through CSRD-focused interviews. The aim was to help ensure that the results accurately reflected the expectations and needs of various relevant stakeholder groups. The stakeholder engagement performed confirmed the initial results of the DMA and no new IROs or changes to material topics were identified. In the perspective of continuous improvement of the double materiality process that was carried out for the first time for the preparation of this Sustainability Statement, Exor will reflect on how to update the DMA analysis and structure a formal stakeholder engagement as an annual process given that it will refresh the double materiality assessment and review sustainability-related IROs on an annual basis. In addition, Exor will evaluate whether specific internal control procedures for the sustainability reporting are required. The process and results of the DMA were presented to a combined Audit and ESG Committee on 22 November 2024 and were then approved by the Board of Directors on 25 November 2024. The DMA results The outcome of the double materiality assessment identified a number of material IROs across Exor's own operations and the downstream value chain, related to seven ESRS topics. The material IROs are summarised in the table below, grouped and categorised into the following seven material topics: i. Emissions reduction and climate change; ii. Environmental impacts across the value chain; iii. Exor employees; iv. Diversity and inclusion; v. Working conditions in the value chain; vi. End users in the value chain; and vii. Corporate culture and business ethics. These topics will guide the structure of the present Sustainability Statement. There are no current financial effects from material risks and opportunities on Exor's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The ESRS topics of Water and Marine Resources, Biodiversity and Ecosystems and Affected Communities were not identified as material, as their related IROs did not exceed the threshold. Water and Marine Resources (E3) has been evaluated as not relevant since water consumption in business as usual of the sectors in which Exor's main investees operate is not significant. Biodiversity and Ecosystems (E4) has been evaluated as not relevant since the sites of Exor's main investees are not located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas. Affected Communities (S3) has been evaluated as not relevant since Exor's business model does not impact or is not impacted by local communities. Moreover, investee companies operations do not need licences to operate for their business as usual and do not have a significant impact on communities. For further elaboration on each material topic and related IROs, please refer to the topic-specific section's disclosures. For the resilience analysis conducted in relation to climate change, please refer to section 2.2 BOARD REPORT 101"
"Emissions reduction and climate change, reported on page 108. No other topic has been covered by a resilience analysis. ESRS Topic Material Topic Impact Financial E1 Climate Change Emissions reduction and climate change Negative actual impact in the value chain: GHG emissions generated by the motor vehicle sector contributing to climate change (including resource extraction and production of materials, transport, industrial processes, GHG emissions from the vehicles sold and the vehicles' end of life). (Short-Medium-Long term) Positive actual impact in the value chain: reduction of CO2 emissions through the sale of alternative products and services and low- carbon vehicles (batteries, alternative fuels, etc.). (Short-Medium-Long term) Risk in own operations: investment entities whose investments are in high-emissions sectors can potentially risk poorer investment returns as markets and regulations transition to a greener economic model. Other potential factors that could lead to weaker investment returns include technological shifts, fluctuations in supply and demand and policy changes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Risk in the value chain: business interruptions, loss in revenues, reduced product availability and an increase in repair costs or damaged buildings at an investee level caused by extreme weather events (hurricanes and floods) as well as longer shifts in climate patterns potentially leading to droughts, heat waves and water stress. (Short-Medium term) Risk in the value chain: reputational damage and loss of financial support due to failure to meet stakeholders' increasing expectations related to climate commitments and transparency of investee companies, also caused by delays in securing carbon removal technologies and new technology for electrification. (Medium-Long term) Opportunity in the value chain: the increasing customer demand and regulatory requirements for energy-efficient vehicles and equipment with a lower environmental impact may lead to expanded market share and revenue growth for investee companies. (Short-Medium-Long term) E2 Pollution Environmental impacts across the value chain Risk in the value chain: environmental and health issues caused by the air pollution related to operations at investee-company level, especially related to industrial processes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Risk in the value chain: the emergence of laws regarding the use of harmful substances in consumer products of manufacturing/ industrial investee companies may lead to increased regulatory oversight and financial losses due to reputational harm.(Short- Medium-Long Term) 102 BOARD REPORT"
"The sustainability matters identified as “material” for Exor, for impact materiality, financial materiality, or both, are those that exceed the threshold described above. The material topics identified in the DMA as described above, as well as more detailed descriptions of their associated IROs and sub topics, are presented in the next sections across the environmental, social and governance sections. A comprehensive list of the ESRS disclosure requirements that Exor adheres to is found in the ESRS Content Index table at the end of the Sustainability Statement. Moreover, a list of data points derived from other EU legislation is provided, offering a comprehensive overview of the relevant information is provided in the section ESRS Content Index and EU Legislation Datapoints. 2. Environmental information 2.1 EU Taxonomy disclosure Introduced by the European Union in June 2020, the Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (the Regulation) provides a classification system defining which economic activity can be considered as environmentally sustainable. The Regulation, which is part of a set of provisions implemented to reach the goal of making Europe a climate- neutral region by 2050, is designed to help private investors direct their flows to more sustainable economic activities avoiding cases of greenwashing. An economic activity is considered eligible if it is listed in the Regulation and can therefore potentially contribute to realising at least one of six environmental objectives: EU Taxonomy Objectives 1) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 2) Climate change adaptation (CCA) 3) Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources (WTR) 4) Transition to a circular economy (CE) 5) Pollution prevention and control (PPC) 6) Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO) Taxonomy alignment of activities is set out in Article 3 of the Regulation: • contributes substantially to one or more of the environmental objectives by meeting the technical screening criteria defined for this economic activity; • does no significant harm to the other five objectives; and • complies with the minimum safeguards The Climate Delegated Act was published by the commission on June 4 2021 and came into effect in 2022. The Climate Delegated Act regulates the first two objectives – Climate Change Mitigation and Climate Change Adaptation – establishing technical screening criteria for economic activities that can contribute substantially to them causing no significant harm to any of the other environmental objective. During 2023, the European Commission published: – the Delegated Act 2023/2485 (published on 27 June 2023) which amended the Climate Delegated Act by introducing new activities and establishing additional technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which certain economic activities qualify to contribute substantially to the first two existing objectives – Climate Change Mitigation and Climate Change Adaptation. – The “Environmental Delegated Act” (published on 21 November 2023), which establishes the technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which an economic activity qualifies as contributing substantially to the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, to the transition to a 106 BOARD REPORT"
"circular economy, to pollution prevention and control, or to the protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems and for determining whether that economic activity causes no significant harm to any of the other environmental objectives. In the reporting and financial year of 2023, companies in scope had to disclose, in addition to the KPIs related to eligible and aligned activities to the two environmental objectives, also the portion of turnover, CapEx and OpEx of their “Taxonomy-eligible” and “Taxonomy-non eligible” activities for the other four environmental objectives. From the reporting and financial year of 2024 onwards, instead, companies are required to report also on the alignment of the activities that contribute substantially to the other four environmental objectives. For 2023 reporting, Exor’s EU-Taxonomy assessment reported the KPIs as a consolidated result of its operating subsidiaries (CNH Industrial, Iveco Group, Ferrari, GEDI, Juventus) that identified eligible and aligned activities in consistency with the criteria reported in the Regulation (EU) 2020/852. For 2024, Exor changed its financial reporting to that of an investment entity under IFRS 10. As a consequence, in order to align the scope of EU-Taxonomy reporting consistently with how turnover, CapEx and OpEx are presented in the consolidated financial statements, the EU-Taxonomy assessment for 2024 includes only Exor and the entities which it consolidates that provide investment services. For the reporting for the financial year 2024, an assessment of the eligibility of the activities of Exor and its consolidated subsidiaries was performed, matching them with those listed in the Delegated Regulations (Climate Delegated Act, Complementary Climate Delegated Act, Environmental Delegated Act and Delegated Act 2023/2485) of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. There were no eligible activities identified, therefore no further assessment has been carried out. In addition, based on paragraph 1.1.3. of the Delegated Regulation, Exor considers the value of the denominator of the KPI related to OpEx, as required by the Regulation, to be immaterial for the business model. Therefore, Exor has not conducted the analysis for calculating the numerator of the KPI related to OpEx. All tables related to the EU Taxonomy are outlined in the Annex of this Sustainability Statement on page 144-150. BOARD REPORT 107"
"2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change Relevant sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities Climate change adaptation Risk in own operations: investment entities whose investments are in high-emissions sectors can potentially risk poorer investment returns as markets and regulations transition to a greener economic model. Other potential factors that could lead to weaker investment returns include technological shifts, fluctuations in supply and demand and policy changes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Risk in the value chain: business interruptions, loss in revenues, reduced product availability and an increase in repair costs or damaged buildings at an investee level caused by extreme weather events (hurricane, floods) as well as longer shifts in climate patterns potentially leading to droughts, heat waves and water stress. (Short-Medium term) Climate change mitigation Negative actual impact in the value chain: GHG emissions generated by the motor vehicle sector contributing to climate change (including resource extraction and production of materials, transport, industrial processes, GHG emissions from the vehicles sold and the vehicles' end of life). (Short-Medium-Long term) Positive actual impact in the value chain: reduction of CO2 emissions through the sale of alternative products and services and low-carbon vehicles (batteries, alternative fuels, etc.). (Short-Medium-Long term) Risk in the value chain: reputational damage and loss of financial support due to failure to meet stakeholders' increasing expectations related to climate commitments and transparency of investee companies, also caused by delays in securing carbon removal technologies and new technology for electrification. (Medium-Long term) Opportunity in the value chain: the increasing customer demand and regulatory requirements for energy-efficient vehicles and equipment with a lower environmental impact may lead to expanded market share and revenue growth for investee companies. (Short-Medium-Long term) The DMA identified climate change as the most material topic and as sub-topics climate change mitigation for the downstream value chain (investee companies) and climate change adaptation for both its own operations and the value chain. Given its nature, Exor has carried out a resilience assessment of its strategy and business model in relation to climate change for its downstream value chain activities through its investee companies, who operate across diverse sectors and play a key role in the transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. This exposes Exor to sector-specific risks and opportunities, which it addresses by analysing climate scenarios aligned with a 2°C or lower pathway. These analyses help Exor assess its strategy’s resilience and are considered as part of overall capital allocation decisions. In 2023, Exor identified its climate-related risks and opportunities in line with TCFD recommendations, based on its composition and has quantitatively assessed those that are most relevant. The investee companies in scope were Ferrari, Stellantis, CNH Industrial and Iveco Group, as they account for approximately 99% of the CO2 emissions deriving from the investee companies and considering the nature of their business, they are likely to have a high level of exposure to both transition and physical climate change risks and opportunities in the short, medium and long term. Climate-related scenario analysis Scenario analysis Exor's resilience strategy has been assessed at the investee company level by considering different climate scenarios defined by internationally accredited providers (IEA, IPCC - SSP/RCP), which use advanced statistical modelling in order to give representation of climate state and climate-related policy evolution. 108 BOARD REPORT"
"Climate change effects could have extended impacts over time, often exacerbated in the long term, and scenario analysis is useful to better understand potential negative or positive impacts on Exor’s business, strategy and financial planning in the short term (by 2027), medium term (by 2031) and long term (by 2036). The impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities are evaluated starting from reference scenarios, which represent the strategic overview of each of the investee companies in scope as publicly disclosed. Reference scenarios are then reviewed in relation to physical and transitional climate factors, which are more or less stressed in alternative scenarios, according to the expected climate-related development. Exor identified four different climate pathway scenarios, also taking into consideration assets and infrastructure, which could encompass climate-related policy evolution, climate change effects on socioeconomic development and direct physical effects on the global environmental state due to the expected increase of global mean temperature. The identified scenarios are the following: • “Business as usual” scenario (IEA - STEPS, IPCC - SSP2/RCP6) which represents the current “as is” situation in terms of the regulatory framework in place to fight climate change issues and, consequently, of external market variables following the current trend. It also considers both current socio-economic development and population projections, connected to long-term trends of climate change effects on the environment, as expected today; • “Slowed down” scenario (IPCC - SSP3/RCP6), with long-term trends reflecting today's expectations on climate effects on the environment, represents a slower socio-economic development, with fragmentation between advanced and developing countries. This would result in overall higher global population projections; • “Intermediate” scenario (IEA - APS), which assumes that all climate commitments announced by governments around the world to fight climate change are met successfully. This scenario is considered as a step towards the most ambitious results, but not yet sufficient to reach net-zero emissions. • “Accelerated” scenario (IEA - NZE, IPCC - SSP1/RCP2.6), describes a regulatory framework set to reach the most ambitious targets of emission reduction by 2050 (Net Zero). In this scenario, the market demand is strongly focused on sustainable products and green energy transition. It also assumes socio- economic development based on sustainability, connected to less critical climate change effects on the environmental state, which results in lower global population projections. Risks and Opportunities Due to the complexity of the investee companies, both in terms of industry heterogeneity, high profile and market relevance, Exor adopted a bottom-up approach to identify climate change risks and opportunities, considering their respective climate-related commitment and disclosure maturity. Exor started by analysing risks and opportunities identified by the in-scope investee companies and subsequently identified the most relevant cross-companies climate risks and opportunities for Exor as a company based on material financial impact in terms of Gross Asset Value (GAV) and future investment return. The investee companies in scope operate in the automotive, agriculture and construction, luxury performance sports cars, commercial vehicles and powertrains industries. Although those industries have their own specificities and characteristics, there are certain transitional and physical climate-related risks and opportunities in common. For this reason, Exor has assessed the climate risks and opportunities that might have a significant impact on its GAV. The following tables represent climate-related risks and opportunities that have been assessed through scenario analysis. BOARD REPORT 109"
"Climate-related Risks Description # Classification Risk Event Impact description 1 (Transition) Policy & Legal: new or more stringent regulations on carbon pricing mechanism on Scope 1 & 2 in specific countries where investee companies mainly operate. Introduction of new regulation on carbon pricing mechanism and potential increase of carbon tax on Scope 1 & 2. Impact on Exor's GAV due to the increase of investee-company operating costs related to cash outflows for the payment of carbon tax due to emerging regulation and increase of carbon prices. 2 (Transition) Market: rapid spread of low emission products is increasing sharply and it is expected to keep growing in the future. Inability of the investee companies to adapt in time to the transition of electric vehicles (BEV and FCEV). Impact on Exor's GAV due to potential loss in revenues at investee-company level due to electric vehicle strategy roll out not being aligned with future market demand in the different climate pathway scenarios. 3 (Transition) Policy & Legal: more stringent regulations on CO2 emissions thresholds for vehicles sold based on portfolio mix in countries where it is applicable. Higher penalties for exceeding CO2 emissions levels applied to investee- company vehicles sold in specific countries based on portfolio composition. Impact on Exor's GAV due to the increase in investee-company operating costs related to the payment of penalties for exceeding CO2 emissions levels for vehicles. 4 (Physical) Acute: event-driven risks including increased severity of extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and floods. (Physical) Chronic: longer-term shifts in climate patterns might cause droughts, heat waves and water stress. Business interruption or loss in productivity at investee-company level. Impact on Exor's GAV due to loss in revenues, reduced product availability and an increase in repair costs of damaged buildings at investee-company level. Climate-related Opportunities Description # Classification Opportunity Event Impact description 1 (Transition) Product and services, Technology: development of new products and services through R&D and innovation Investee companies product portfolio extension, through the development of precision farming solutions and hydrogen technology. Impact on Exor's GAV due to an increase in investee-company revenues related to the development of new products and services. 2 (Transition) Energy efficiency: energy efficiency projects through decarbonisation strategy Energy efficiency projects, aimed primarily at reducing CO2 emissions and reaching decarbonisation targets at investee level. Impact on Exor's GAV due to operating costs savings at investee- company level. 110 BOARD REPORT"
"Climate-related Opportunities Impact - Scenario analysis # Climate factor Risk event Scenario Time horizon Short term Medium term Long term 1 Socio-economic development, market demand of food, changes in customer preferences, increase of global temperature Investee companies' product portfolio extension, through the development of precision farming solutions and hydrogen technology A Marginal Marginal Marginal C Marginal Marginal Marginal D Marginal Marginal Marginal 2 Shifting to renewable energy sources Energy efficiency projects at the investee level, aimed primarily at reducing CO2 emissions and reaching decarbonisation targets A Marginal Limited Limited C Marginal Marginal Marginal D Marginal Limited Medium Scenarios: A (business as usual), B (intermediate scenario), C (accelerated scenario) and D (slowed-down) Economic thresholds (% of GAV at risk): No impact (0% ), Marginal (0-0.25%), Limited (0.25-1%), Medium (1-2%), Significant (2-4%) and Extreme (>4%) All the in-scope investee companies have decarbonisation strategies to reduce their Scope 1 & 2 emissions related to manufacturing processes and production facilities, thus the evolution of carbon tax and its price increase, in the considered scenarios, would have little impact on Exor’s GAV in the period of analysis. According to the IEA World Energy Outlook, climate-related scenarios forecasted prices are in line with the 2022 assessment, except the business-as-usual scenario, which reports a restrained increase. Considering the main industries that the investee companies operate in, major effort is associated with the transition towards lower emissions vehicles - BEV and FCEV (passenger cars, commercial vehicles, agricultural machinery, and luxury performance sports cars). In particular, the assessed risk is related to the inability of the in-scope investee companies to adapt in time to the transition towards electric vehicles, and it may result in a loss in revenues and competitiveness with a potential negative financial impact on Exor GAV. Electric vehicles' sales growth rate changes differently in climate scenarios and in markets where the investee companies operate, with major growth expected in the accelerated scenario rather than in the intermediate or business as usual ones, even if electric vehicles' sales growth rate in the business-as-usual scenario has shown a strong increase with respect to the 2022 assessment. As a result of the analysis, the portfolio assessment showed a high level of resilience in all the climate change scenarios and reference time frames. In-scope investee companies’ transition plans towards BEV and FCEV vehicles demonstrate alignment with industry specificities and to future BEV market development in the geographies where they operate. Furthermore, the transition towards low emission vehicles is necessary to comply with vehicle emissions regulations, which are expected to be more stringent in the future. The failure to comply with these regulations may result in considerable penalties and reputational damages at the level of the in-scope investee companies and, as a consequence, negatively impact Exor’s GAV. Compliance with vehicle emissions regulations can be achieved through the development of new technologies (e.g. electric drive systems), that usually require large capital investments. The in-scope investee companies have already presented low emission vehicles roll out plans and electrification strategies as part of their strategic targets. The investee companies are switching towards the production of low emissions vehicles, which supports the high level of resilience of the portfolio to the tightening of emissions thresholds for cars, vans and trucks manufacturers, in all climate change scenarios and time frames in the analysis. BOARD REPORT 113"
"Nonetheless, with respect to climate-related risks and opportunities, GHG emissions and decarbonisation strategies are not the only relevant issues that could affect the main industries of Exor's investee companies. Acute and chronic physical risks such as heat waves, droughts and water stress, could cause business interruption or a loss in productivity in the investee companies. From Exor’s point of view, given the geographic diversification and the extended manufacturing network of the investee companies, it is unlikely that the identified climate factors occur everywhere at the same time. This means a lower financial risk impact for Exor’s GAV, with respect to a single in-scope investee company risk which could be more relevant. Potential opportunities could also be driven by the expansion of the product portfolio currently in place. The shift in consumer preferences towards sustainable solutions, driven by increased climate-awareness, requires manufacturers to adapt to evolving market demands. The investee companies have already developed new sustainable products and services, and they will continue to enlarge their product portfolio through the development of sustainable products and services to capture the growth potential in the reference markets of precision farming solutions, electric agricultural equipment and hydrogen powered solutions for commercial vehicles. Technology innovation could help realise market opportunities by using more efficient digital equipment; for instance, in the agricultural business, climate change will affect global food demand projections and, at the same time, will increase the need to make the best use of cultivable land. The investee companies working in this segment are already implementing precision farming solutions, which will become indispensable solutions for future agriculture management, above all in the slowed-down climate scenario, where global food consumption is greater due to high demographic projections. Another climate-related opportunity that Exor identified across its largest public investee companies is related to the development of energy efficiency projects through decarbonisation strategy. All of the investee companies in the scope of the analysis have energy efficiency projects in the pipeline, aimed primarily at reducing CO2 emissions and reaching decarbonisation targets. Energy efficiency investments will generate operating cost savings which, from Exor’s portfolio perspective, could result in opportunities both in terms of economic value (indirect impact on GAV due to savings on investees operating costs) and reputation. In fact, an investee company committing to reach carbon neutrality could result in higher access to capital, for example through the financing of new and existing projects with environmental benefits, using alternative financing solutions such as green bonds. Exor will continue to monitor the relevant physical and transition risks with the aim of reducing their potential impacts through risk-response strategy and, at the same time, will also be seeking new climate-related opportunities in the sectors in which its investee companies operate. Moreover, Exor will monitor other potential and relevant climate-related risks and opportunities arising from the expansion of its portfolio with other investee companies. 2.2.1 Approach to climate change in Exor Impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change are primarily focused on Exor's downstream value chain. Although the sub-topic climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations given its limited size as an outcome of the double materiality assessment, Exor reached and maintained the carbon neutral status in 2023, as described in section 1.3 Strategy and business model. Climate change adaptation emerged as a material matter for Exor due to the risk of investing in high-emissions sectors that could lead to poorer investment returns as markets and regulations to transition to a greener economic model. As disclosed above, climate change adaptation arises due to Exor's business as an investor and not as a result of its general operating activities. Considering the nature of the investments and the wide sectors in which Exor invests, it does not have policy or actions related to this topic. Exor, however, considers climate change as part of its due diligence process when evaluating new investments. 114 BOARD REPORT"
"2.2.2 Emissions reduction in the value chain Exor encourages its investee companies to set reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions and measure Scope 3 emissions by sharing best practices as well as supporting and challenging their respective sustainability strategies via its board representation. Investee companies like Philips and Iveco Group have publicly committed to Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) goals, reinforcing their dedication to emissions reduction and net-zero ambitions. Exor also encourages all of its public investee companies to have robust sustainability governance, adhere to international guidelines, and implement risk evaluation systems to address climate risks. Notable efforts include CNH Industrial and Ferrari’s leadership in sustainable practices, Stellantis’ expansion in electric vehicles (EVs), and Iveco Group’s focus on low-carbon solutions. Exor continues to champion climate action across its portfolio, driving a collective transition towards a sustainable future. Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Climate Change Mitigation 5 100% 4 88% 5 100% 5 100% Climate Change Adaptation 4 44% 3 32% 4 44% 2 30% % of adjusted GAV: total contribution of # of investee companies (from Ferrari, Stellantis, Philips, CNH and Iveco Group) divided by the total GAV contribution of those 5 companies As illustrated in the above table, climate change mitigation is a key priority for Exor’s investee companies, as reducing emissions, adopting sustainable practices, and meeting climate goals are vital for both their environmental responsibility and long-term success, given their industrial context. At the same time, these companies are vulnerable to the impacts of climate change like extreme weather events and hazards. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: Ferrari's Environmental Practice highlights its commitment to minimising its environmental impact. The company focuses on cutting greenhouse gas emissions throughout product life cycles, minimising water use, reusing waste materials, monitoring emissions, and protecting biodiversity in affected areas. Ferrari's decarbonization strategy defined in 2022 is aligned with the trajectory “well below 2°C” in order to contribute to ambitions at the international, national and regional level and entails a reduction of at least 90% of Scope 1 and 2 (market-based method) absolute CO2eq emissions and a reduction of at least 40% of Scope 3 emissions per car, with respect to 2021. In this context, Ferrari's most significant environmental efforts are deployed through a program for the reduction of polluting and GHG emissions, both direct and indirect. • Stellantis: Stellantis has undertaken key actions to address climate change by preventing, mitigating, and remediating its impacts, while also managing climate-related risks and opportunities. These initiatives align with the company's policy objectives and GHG emission reduction targets, as outlined in its Dare Forward strategic plan (reducing absolute GHG emissions across scopes 1, 2, and 3 compared to the 2021 base year, lowering GHG emissions intensity per vehicle across these scopes, and reducing absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions). Stellantis focuses on three main decarbonisation levers: a low- carbon product portfolio, a sustainable supply chain, and the efficiency of its own operations. BOARD REPORT 115"
"• Philips: Philips has defined a Climate Action Program, which aims to reduce emissions across the entire value chain. The company has set emission reduction targets approved by the SBTi, aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Key actions include energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels, using renewable energy, and collaborating with suppliers and customers to amplify the impact and reduce the footprint across the value chain. Exor's Carbon Footprint Exor believes that, in order to pursue its passion of emissions reduction, the starting point is to calculate and monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at its own operations level but in particular in relation to its investee companies. Exor has measured and disclosed all its GHG footprints from 2019, well before the Company was subject to the requirements of the CSRD, demonstrating its long-term vision and strong commitment to sustainability. Even though climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations, in addition to Scope 3 data, it has also disclosed information related to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in continuity with historical reporting. Exor has calculated its GHG inventory in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative classifies GHG emissions into three “Scopes”: • Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by Exor; • Scope 2 covers indirect emissions that Exor causes from the generation of purchased electricity; • Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that originate from the value chain of the reporting company. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated according to the activity-based method which allows the calculation of GHG emissions associated with the company-specific activities, processes and/or products on the basis of detailed consumption data such as energy bills and information provided by buildings’ owners (with IEA and DEFRA emission factors), while a hybrid approach was adopted for Scope 3 emissions, incorporating both activity-based (with DEFRA emission factors) and spend-based, (adapting EPA emission factors) or average- based methods, depending on the Scope 3 Category. The table shows Exor's GHG emissions, broken down into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 116 BOARD REPORT"
"All units are (tCO2eq) 2024 Milestones and target years 2025 2030 2050 △ (base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 n.a n.a n.a n.a Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) —% n.a n.a n.a n.a Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 25 n.a n.a n.a n.a Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 n.a n.a n.a n.a Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42,344,330 n.a n.a n.a n.a 1 Purchased goods and services 686 n.a n.a n.a n.a 2 Capital goods N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 3 Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 n.a n.a n.a n.a 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 5 n.a n.a n.a n.a 5 Waste generated in operations 1 n.a n.a n.a n.a 6 Business travel 176 n.a n.a n.a n.a 7 Employee commuting 8 n.a n.a n.a n.a 8 Upstream leased assets 4 n.a n.a n.a n.a 9 Downstream transportation N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 10 Processing of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 11 Use of sold products 0 n.a n.a n.a n.a 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 13 Downstream leased assets N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 14 Franchises N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 15 Investments 42,343,442 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 42,344,366 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions (market- based) 42,344,351 n.a n.a n.a n.a Given the nature and scale of its business activities, Scope 3 emissions represent the most significant share of Exor’s overall carbon footprint. In line with the GHG Protocol guidelines, Exor has conducted a detailed assessment of its operations and investment portfolio to determine the materiality of each Scope 3 category. As a result, Categories 9 (“Downstream transportation and distribution”), 10 (“Processing of sold products”), 12 (“End-of-life treatment of sold products”), 13 (“Downstream leased assets”), and 14 (“Franchises”) have been excluded from the footprint calculation, as they are not deemed relevant to Exor’s business model. At the same time, Category 4 (“Upstream transportation and distribution”) has been incorporated into the Scope 3 reporting perimeter as of 2023 to enhance the completeness of the emissions inventory. Beyond its direct operations — where Scope 3 emissions primarily stem from purchased goods and services, capital goods, and business travel — Exor’s investment portfolio constitutes the predominant driver of its emissions profile. The nature of Exor’s business model means that Category 15 (“Investments”) accounts for the vast majority of its carbon footprint. Accordingly, the assessment of financed emissions follows the PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, ensuring methodological robustness, transparency, and consistency with international best practices. BOARD REPORT 117"
"Relevant sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities Corporate culture Risk in own operations: the lack of transparency in Exor's tax approach and/or the wrong interpretation of tax regulations can cause reputational damage and sanctions. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Risk in own operations: the unauthorised use or access to company information due to an inadequate safeguard of the information itself, (breach of confidentiality and privacy), inadequate segregation of duties, cyber security and/or misuse of company name, like scamming. Geopolitical developments lead to an increase of cyber related attacks. (Short-Medium- Term) Protection of whistleblowers Positive actual impact in own operations: implementing a whistle-blower mechanism guarantees the protection of whistleblowers and a transparent corporate culture where stakeholders can report violations confidentiality. (Short- Medium-Long Term) Management of relationships with suppliers including payment practices Positive actual impact in the value chain: helping suppliers at an investee- company level to improve their responsible practices through industry collaboration and standardised responsible procurement practices. (Medium-Long Term) Corporate culture and protection of whistleblowers are the two sub-topics identified as relevant for Exor’s own operations. In particular, the risk of tax transparency and the positive impact of relying on a strong whistle- blower mechanism were assessed in consideration of Exor’s activity and location. Policies and corporate culture In relation to policies on business conduct matters, Exor has established mechanisms for identifying, reporting and investigating concerns about unlawful behaviour or behaviour that contradicts Exor’s Code of Conduct, including anti-bribery and corruption, and insider trading policies. Moreover, Exor has defined a tax approach in order to apply responsible tax behaviour and has also established rules addressing conflicts of interests, related party conflicts and the relationship with shareholders. Exor has in place an anti-bribery policy that supports the principles of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Code of Conduct As described in section 3.1, Exor employees, Exor’s governance model, regulating the decision-making process and approach of the Company and its employees in the interest of its stakeholders is firmly based on the Code. Together with the other policies and procedures of the Company, the Code of Conduct constitutes the primary set of values in the Exor governance framework. Exor conducts its business with integrity and with respect for all its stakeholders, while safeguarding its corporate image and reputation, by following and respecting the values, principles and commitments as laid down in the Code. Its rigorous observance is required of all people in the Company. During 2024, there were no reports made regarding non-compliance with the Code. Whistleblowing mechanism Exor has implemented a whistleblowing mechanism for its internal stakeholders to raise their concerns directly. All new employees are informed of the existence of the whistleblowing mechanism and policy and required to read it. No specific training is delivered to employees on The Exor Whistleblowing Service and it is managed by the Head of Legal. BOARD REPORT 133"
"Reporting a violation of the Code of Conduct helps, among other things, to protect Exor’s company’s reputation. Employees have a duty to report on a breach or a potential breach of the Code of Conduct, laws or our policies and procedures in respect of Exor and its organisation. Violations (or potential violations) of the Code of Conduct may be reported – anonymously – using The Exor Whistleblowing Service (accessible at the Company’s website) or by contacting the Head of Legal. All concerns raised are treated with the utmost confidentiality, protecting the information and data contained therein, as well as the identity of the party that raised the concern and the other parties involved. Any form of retaliation, threats, penalties or discrimination is expressly prohibited, both against these parties and against anyone who participated in the investigations. There is no specific measures for the protection of whistleblowers as these concepts are outlined in Exor's Code of Conduct. Exor does not currently have a policy for training within the organisation on business conduct. 4.1.2. Governance in the value chain Exor believes that a clear governance framework is essential to encouraging its companies to adopt its sustainability framework and through its presence in the boards of its companies, Exor champions and supports their progress on sustainability issues. Exor has no specific policies in place. Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Topics ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Business Conduct Management of relationships with suppliers including payment practices 5 100% 5 100% 5 100% 2 14% Exor’s investee companies implement policies that promote accountability, integrity, and fairness across their practices. This includes addressing fair and sustainable practices in relationships with suppliers across the value chain, which covers the proper implementation of payment practices. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: the company establishes clear relationships with suppliers through purchase contracts and the Statement of Commitment, ensuring compliance with the Code of Conduct and compliance practices. In 2024, Ferrari strengthened supplier engagement with Tier 1 and Tier 2 to reduce GHG emissions, collecting data through Life Cycle Assessments (LCA). In collaboration with Drive Sustainability, the company also monitored key suppliers’ ESG performance, promoting a more sustainable supply chain. • Stellantis: to promote stability, resilience and efficiency in its supply base, Stellantis has adopted strategic policies and procedures, including the Stellantis Code of Conduct which reflects the company’s core business conduct values and promotes fair and resilient business practices throughout the supply chain and Global Responsible Purchasing Guidelines, which establishes expectations regarding suppliers’ environmental, social and governance practices. 134 BOARD REPORT"
"ESRS Content Index Disclosure requirement and related datapoint Page number/paragraph Sustainability Statement 2024 ESRS 2 - GENERAL DISCLOSURES BP-1 General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation (see page 88) BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation (see page 89) GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 90-91) GOV-2 Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking's administrative, management and supervisory bodies General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 92) GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 92) GOV-4 Statement on due diligence General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 93-94) GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting General information - 1.2 Governance (see page 94) SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model (see page 95-98) SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model (see page 98-99) SBM-3 - Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment (see page 100- 105) IRO-1 Description of the process to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment (see page 99-100) IRO-2 Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking's Sustainability Statement General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment (see page 106) ESRS E1 CLIMATE CHANGE IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change (see page 108) E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change - 2.2.1 Approach to climate change in Exor (see page 114) BOARD REPORT 135"
"E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change - 2.2.1 Approach to climate change in Exor (see page 114) E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change - 2.2.1 Approach to climate change in Exor (see page 114) E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Environmental information - 2.2 Emissions reduction and climate change - 2.2.2 Emission reduction in the value chain (see page 116-118) ESRS E2 POLLUTION IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E2-1 Policies related to pollution Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E2-3 Targets related to pollution Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) ESRS E5 RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain (see page 118-120) ESRS S1 OWN WORKFORCE SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model (see page 98-99) SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 121) S1-1 Policies related to own workforce Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 121-122) S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workforce and workers' representatives about impacts Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 123) 136 BOARD REPORT"
"S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 123) S1-4 Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 123-124) S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 124) S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking's employees Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 124) S1-9 Diversity metrics Social information - 3.2.1 Diversity in Exor (see page 125-126) S1-14 Health and safety metrics Social information - 3.1 Exor employees (see page 125) S1-16 Remuneration metrics (pay gap and total remuneration) Social information - 3.2.1 Diversity in Exor (see page 126-128) S1-17 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts Social information - 3.2.1 Diversity in Exor (see page 128) ESRS S2 WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain (see page 128-129) S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain (see page 128-129) S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain (see page 128-129) S2-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain (see page 128-129) ESRS S4 CONSUMERS AND END-USERS SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain (see page 130-131) S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain (see page 130-131) S4-4 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end- users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain (see page 130-131) BOARD REPORT 137"
"There is significant sustainability and business-conduct knowledge across Exor's Board of Directors and employees. This is further supported by accessing the knowledge present in the sustainability teams at the investee companies as well as Exor's network of expert advisors and consultants. Access to this knowledge helps Exor better identify, analyse and manage sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. More information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report, reported on page 66 and following pages. Sustainability Information Flows The Board of Directors, supported by the ESG Committee, oversees progress on Exor’s three sustainability passions of emissions reduction, education and diversity & inclusion, and also addresses the material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. The Board of Directors receives updates at least annually both from the ESG Committee and Exor's Leadership Team on topics such as material impacts, risks, opportunities, due diligence implementation, and the outcomes and effectiveness of policies, actions, metrics, and adopted targets. These bodies consider impacts, risks, and opportunities when overseeing the strategy, making decisions on major transactions, and managing risks, while also considering trade-offs associated with those impacts, risks and opportunities. Over the course of the year, the ESG Committee receives various updates from the Exor team on sustainability- related items and provides constructive feedback. These updates include Exor's progress and the evolution of its sustainability strategy, an annual update on the sustainability actions, targets, and performance of investee companies with a value of greater than 1% of Exor's Gross Asset Value, presentations from partners related to Exor's initiatives e.g. Fondazione Agnelli on Matabì (Exor's flagship education initiative), sustainability-linked compensation items and Exor's sustainability-related reporting. For the first year of ESRS reporting, the Board of Directors, the ESG Committee and the Audit Committee have all been involved in the process and have reviewed and approved the list of material impacts, risks and opportunities that resulted from the Double Materiality Assessment (described later in this section). Members of both the Audit and ESG Committees review the material included in Exor's sustainability reporting with the Audit Committee providing a recommendation to the Board of Directors for approval of the Sustainability Statement and, also in 2024, approval of Exor's first double materiality analysis. The Board of Directors of Exor approves the consolidated financial statements, which include the Company's sustainability reporting and company financial statements. Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes The remuneration of Executive Directors and management is subject to Exor's achievements, which include those related to sustainability, and is periodically reviewed by the Compensation Committee which assesses the adequacy of the performance measures used to support sustainable long-term value creation. The objective of Exor's Remuneration Policy, approved and adopted by the general meeting of shareholders held on 28 May 2024, is to provide a compensation structure that allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the most highly qualified executives to promote the growth and sustainable success of the Company and its business and that creates long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders in a manner consistent with the Company’s core business and leadership values. For these objectives to be achieved, the Remuneration Policy is determined considering (i) best practices in compensation policy design (in accordance, inter alia, with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code); and (ii) the need for sustainable compensation and aligned with the medium-to-long-term interests of all stakeholders. Executive remuneration may consist of the following primary components: i) base salary; ii) short-term incentive; iii) long-term incentive; and iv) retirement and other benefits. Each year Executive Directors may be awarded short-term and long-term incentives, depending on the performance during the relevant timeframe, including in relation to non-financial metrics such as sustainability measures. Sustainability measures are usually considered through the use of benchmarks, monitoring of trends via input from external consultants as well as discussions between Exor's Leadership Team and the Compensation and ESG Committees before then with the Board of Directors. These metrics are defined at the beginning of the year and are rooted in the strategic plan of the Company. 92 BOARD REPORT"
"The Compensation Committee is responsible for submitting a clear and understandable proposal to the Board concerning the Executive Directors remuneration policy. The Board determines the compensation for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company in accordance with this Policy. The Compensation Committee may invite members of the Board, other competent functions (for example, legal or finance) or other relevant employees to their meetings. To avoid any conflicts of interest, the Compensation Committee meetings usually include a so-called ‘closed’ session, during which only members of the Compensation Committee are present and the other meeting attendees, including Executive Directors, are requested to leave. In this way, Executive Directors, other Board members and other meeting attendees are not involved in any decisions and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration to avoid any conflicts of interest. At least once every four years, the Committee will review the adequacy, overall coherence and effective application of the Policy and make recommendations to the Board in respect of any proposed changes, after which it will be submitted for approval to the general meeting of shareholders. For the 2024 long-term incentive plan, two sustainability components were integrated with each having a weighting of 10% (therefore representing 20% of the total long-term incentive component). One component was linked to Exor's flagship education initiative Matabì, which is carried out in collaboration with Fondazione Agnelli (please refer to page 126-128 in section 3. Social information for more information on the project) and the other was linked to the quality of the CSRD reporting. Remuneration related to sustainability metrics and additional information on the incentive scheme can be found in the Remuneration Report, reported on page 151 (ESG Targets reported at page 156) and the Remuneration Policy available on the corporate regulations page of Exor's website. Statement on due diligence The following table shows how and where the application of the main aspects and steps of the due diligence process are reflected in this Sustainability Statement: BOARD REPORT 93"
"Core elements of due diligence Paragraphs in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Sustainability Information Flows 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Interests and views of stakeholders 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology Identifying and assessing adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Taking actions to address those adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation - General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.2 Diversity and inclusion 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Although Exor considers sustainability aspects as part of the due diligence process when evaluating new investments, there is not a formalised sustainability due diligence process. Exor is reflecting on how best to implement sustainability screening in a more structured way when assessing new investment opportunities. Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting To assess the risk affecting the Company’s activities and the effectiveness of the internal control system, Exor has in place an internal control and risk management system based on the model provided by the COSO Framework (""Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Report – Enterprise Risk Management model"") and the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. There are no specific internal controls in relation to the disclosures within the Sustainability Statement due also to the limited information disclosed. Exor will evaluate for future Sustainability Statements whether specific controls are required. Exor has no risk assessment specifically dedicated to sustainability reporting and instead considers the potential associated risks under its risk of ""non/late compliance with applicable legislation/regulations or changes, Business Ethics and Sustainability requirements"". To support its compliance with the applicable sustainability regulatory requirements, Exor involves an external consultant, who helps to provide additional expertise and objectivity where necessary. In relation to the sustainability reporting process, Exor prepares all its own operations reporting internally. The Chief Financial Officer of Exor oversees and is responsible for the preparation of this data. Value chain reporting is prepared with the support of investee companies who complete a reporting package as requested by Exor. The management of the investee companies is responsible for the preparation and delivery of their respective data. 94 BOARD REPORT"
"As part of its sustainability reporting process, Exor ensures to involve an outsourced Internal Audit to provide constructive support as well as Exor's external (statutory) auditors to maintain alignment and transparency throughout. Exor aims to continuously improve its processes regarding the collection and internal control of sustainability data both for its own operations as well as the value chain. Any issues or improvements to this process are managed by Exor and then reported, where necessary, to the Audit and ESG Committees as operational updates. More information can be found in the Risk Management and Key risks and key trends section of the Annual Report, reported on page 59-65. 1.3. Strategy and business model Exor is headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, listed on Euronext Amsterdam and included in the AEX Index. Its Gross Asset Value (GAV) and Net Asset Value (NAV) amounted to approximately €42 billion and €38 billion at 31 December 2024, respectively, and it is one of Europe’s largest investment holding companies. Most of Exor's investments are in leading global companies, both public and private, in which it is often the largest shareholder and the investments are held for capital appreciation, often for long-term periods in accordance with Exor's portfolio review process. With the introduction of the CSRD, it is also relevant to describe Exor's upstream and downstream activities. Upstream activities include procurement and investor relations, including a limited number of suppliers of goods and services (e.g. office equipment, consultancy companies, etc). Downstream activities refer to activities that take place at the investee companies' level. For reporting purposes, given Exor's lean structure of 23 employees at 31 December 2024 (more details are provided in section 3.1 Exor employees) and the particular nature of the value chain, the upstream value chain was deemed as less relevant compared to the downstream value chain in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities. In particular, due to the size of Exor, the upstream value chain mainly relates to the provision of goods and services to the Company, which, given its size, are very limited. The downstream value chain is significant in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities due to the size and nature of investments and Exor's activity as an investor. Upstream Own Operations Downstream Goods and services suppliers Exor offices Investee companies Investors Workforce Exor's purpose and values Exor believes that great companies are not just those that perform to the highest standards but also those that seek out renewal and change and are distinctive in what they do. HOW WE BUILD: WHAT MAKES A COMPANY GREAT: • Leaders who perform and embody our values • Governance aligned with ownership and leadership • Progressing on path to greatness BUILD GREAT COMPANIES • Distinctive in what it does • Seek renewal and change • Acts in a responsible way • Performs to the highest standards BOARD REPORT 95"
"Exor's ownership helps create environments where companies can thrive and helps empower leaders to build great companies. Exor does this by having an active role in the governance of the companies it owns and by working with fellow directors to create strong boards that can act as “critical friends” to those companies, challenging them to improve performance across all the dimensions of being a great company and supporting them when they face obstacles. Through this approach, Exor encourages its companies to set and achieve their sustainability goals while always being conscious of their autonomy. Some of the ways in which Exor supports its companies are outlined below. 1 CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE COMPANIES CAN THRIVE 2 EMPOWERING LEADERS TO BUILD GREAT COMPANIES 3 USING GOVERNANCE TO STEER OUR COMPANIES ✓Long-term committed capital ✓Use Exor's network to find new leaders ✓Build effective boards ✓Strong network ✓Act as a “critical-friend” to leaders in its companies ✓Support companies in their management successions ✓Support and challenge companies’ plans ✓Encourage the creation of strong and positive cultures ✓Play an active role in the boards of all its companies ✓Promote diversity and inclusiveness Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. It therefore recruits strong talent into its own organisation, offers equal opportunities, and creates a diverse and inclusive workforce. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair and it is the job of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them. AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Sustainability at Exor Exor publicly communicated its sustainability strategy in November 2021 at the Exor Investor Day, prior to which the strategy was presented to the ESG Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. In devising the strategy, Exor had carried out a detailed analysis to identify what topics were material for the Company as well as common across its investee companies, benchmarked the approach of other European holding peers, engaged with Exor employees from various functions, spoke to global sustainability leaders (both individuals & companies) and assessed international regulatory frameworks. As a result of this analysis, Exor established a set of key KPIs and targets it wanted to put in place for itself as well as an approach on how it would support its investee companies as a ""critical friend"" on their path to greatness. Exor believes that, to act in a responsible way, great companies should: • Align with best practices and reporting frameworks; • Identify priorities, set targets, measure and report progress; • Continue to raise the bar; • Aspire to industry sustainability leadership. 96 BOARD REPORT"
"• Philips: Philips has defined a Climate Action Program, which aims to reduce emissions across the entire value chain. The company has set emission reduction targets approved by the SBTi, aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Key actions include energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels, using renewable energy, and collaborating with suppliers and customers to amplify the impact and reduce the footprint across the value chain. Exor's Carbon Footprint Exor believes that, in order to pursue its passion of emissions reduction, the starting point is to calculate and monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at its own operations level but in particular in relation to its investee companies. Exor has measured and disclosed all its GHG footprints from 2019, well before the Company was subject to the requirements of the CSRD, demonstrating its long-term vision and strong commitment to sustainability. Even though climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations, in addition to Scope 3 data, it has also disclosed information related to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in continuity with historical reporting. Exor has calculated its GHG inventory in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative classifies GHG emissions into three “Scopes”: • Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by Exor; • Scope 2 covers indirect emissions that Exor causes from the generation of purchased electricity; • Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that originate from the value chain of the reporting company. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated according to the activity-based method which allows the calculation of GHG emissions associated with the company-specific activities, processes and/or products on the basis of detailed consumption data such as energy bills and information provided by buildings’ owners (with IEA and DEFRA emission factors), while a hybrid approach was adopted for Scope 3 emissions, incorporating both activity-based (with DEFRA emission factors) and spend-based, (adapting EPA emission factors) or average- based methods, depending on the Scope 3 Category. The table shows Exor's GHG emissions, broken down into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 116 BOARD REPORT"
"All units are (tCO2eq) 2024 Milestones and target years 2025 2030 2050 △ (base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 n.a n.a n.a n.a Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) —% n.a n.a n.a n.a Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 25 n.a n.a n.a n.a Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 n.a n.a n.a n.a Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42,344,330 n.a n.a n.a n.a 1 Purchased goods and services 686 n.a n.a n.a n.a 2 Capital goods N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 3 Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 n.a n.a n.a n.a 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 5 n.a n.a n.a n.a 5 Waste generated in operations 1 n.a n.a n.a n.a 6 Business travel 176 n.a n.a n.a n.a 7 Employee commuting 8 n.a n.a n.a n.a 8 Upstream leased assets 4 n.a n.a n.a n.a 9 Downstream transportation N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 10 Processing of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 11 Use of sold products 0 n.a n.a n.a n.a 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 13 Downstream leased assets N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 14 Franchises N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 15 Investments 42,343,442 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 42,344,366 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions (market- based) 42,344,351 n.a n.a n.a n.a Given the nature and scale of its business activities, Scope 3 emissions represent the most significant share of Exor’s overall carbon footprint. In line with the GHG Protocol guidelines, Exor has conducted a detailed assessment of its operations and investment portfolio to determine the materiality of each Scope 3 category. As a result, Categories 9 (“Downstream transportation and distribution”), 10 (“Processing of sold products”), 12 (“End-of-life treatment of sold products”), 13 (“Downstream leased assets”), and 14 (“Franchises”) have been excluded from the footprint calculation, as they are not deemed relevant to Exor’s business model. At the same time, Category 4 (“Upstream transportation and distribution”) has been incorporated into the Scope 3 reporting perimeter as of 2023 to enhance the completeness of the emissions inventory. Beyond its direct operations — where Scope 3 emissions primarily stem from purchased goods and services, capital goods, and business travel — Exor’s investment portfolio constitutes the predominant driver of its emissions profile. The nature of Exor’s business model means that Category 15 (“Investments”) accounts for the vast majority of its carbon footprint. Accordingly, the assessment of financed emissions follows the PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, ensuring methodological robustness, transparency, and consistency with international best practices. BOARD REPORT 117"
"The calculation of financed emissions relies on a structured approach based on PCAF’s prescribed methodologies. For listed equity investments, emissions are allocated using Exor’s proportional share of enterprise value including cash (EVIC), ensuring an accurate representation of its financial exposure to emissions-intensive activities. Regarding Scope 3 Category 15, in line with PCAF’s data quality scoring system, Exor has also continued to refine the accuracy of its financed emissions calculations by incorporating a more granular assessment of primary data sources, where available, and progressively reducing reliance on estimated emission factors for investee companies. For the calculation of the 2024 carbon footprint, only 1 in-scope investee company provided a PCAF data quality score lower than 1 (i.e. verified emissions), as it is yet to publish its annual sustainability reporting. Exor will continue to support its investee companies to accurately calculate their GHG footprint as a means to improve the accuracy of its own footprint. The refinement of Exor’s methodology has been a key focus throughout 2024, with a concerted effort to improve the quality of underlying data inputs and enhance the representativeness of reported emissions. As part of this continuous improvement process, Exor has updated the emission factors applied to selected Scope 3 categories, further strengthening the reliability of its carbon footprint assessment. The integration of refined metrics supports a more robust evaluation of emissions across its investment portfolio and aligns with the company’s broader approach to sustainability governance. The ongoing refinement of the methodology ensures that reported emissions more accurately reflect the underlying carbon intensity of investee companies, reinforcing the credibility of the overall emissions inventory. 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain Material sub-topics Material sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities E2 Pollution Pollution of air Risk in the value chain: environmental and health issues caused by the air pollution related to operations at investee-company level, especially related to industrial processes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Substances of concern Risk in the value chain: the emergence of laws regarding the use of harmful substances in consumer products of manufacturing/industrial investee companies may lead to increased regulatory oversight and financial losses due to reputational harm. (Short-Medium-Long Term) E5 Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use Resource outflows related to products and services Positive actual impact in the value chain: sourcing through the use of bio- sourced materials, recycled materials and materials of natural origin reducing resource depletion, such as use of water, deforestation and impact on local wildlife by embedding circular economy practices (e.g. marketing reconditioned products, reducing waste and resource extraction, also through repair, remanufacturing, reuse, recycling, revalorisation) (Medium-Long- Term) Waste Negative actual impact in the value chain: generation of waste linked to operational processes at investee companies, including hazardous waste and generation of plastics, packaging, electronic waste, deriving from their own operations and upstream activities. (Short-Medium Term) 118 BOARD REPORT"
"Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Topics ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Pollution Pollution of air 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% Substances of concern 2 73% 2 73% 2 73% 0 —% Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use 5 100% 4 83% 5 100% 3 27% Resource outflows related to products and services 3 86% 2 68% 2 30% 1 12% Waste 3 71% 3 71% 3 71% 2 14% % of adjusted GAV: total contribution of # of investee companies (from Ferrari, Stellantis, Philips, CNH and Iveco Group) divided by the total GAV contribution of those 5 companies The topic of pollution in the investee companies mainly relates to pollution of air and substances of concern, due to the activities carried out in their respective production lines. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • CNH: CNH is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its industrial processes by monitoring and managing air pollutant emissions. Alongside the GHG emissions, the company carefully monitors emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from its machinery and equipment, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions from its manufacturing processes, emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and inorganic particulate matter emitted by burning fossil fuels. • Iveco Group: Iveco Group has implemented several measures to reduce air pollution, focusing on reducing VOC emissions during painting processes and closely monitoring NOx, SOx, and particulate matter emissions. The company continuously optimises its manufacturing processes with advanced technologies, developing engines compatible with renewable fuels such as biomethane and hydrogen. Iveco Group adopts a precautionary approach in product design, manufacturing, logistics, and product end-of-life management. Additionally, Iveco Group applies technological solutions to ensure compliance with international air quality regulations and reduce CO2 emissions, enhancing environmental sustainability. BOARD REPORT 119"
"All in-scope investee companies demonstrated a focus on resource inflows and the efficient use of resources, highlighting their commitment to minimising the environmental impact of their operations and waste. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: Ferrari’s Environmental Practice promotes the reuse of waste materials in the production process according to a circular economy approach. It aims to reduce waste quantity and optimise the amount of materials sent to recovery plants. Ferrari has embraced circular economy principles by designing products with durability, repairability, and recyclability in mind. The minimum recyclability of vehicles sold is 85%, calculated in accordance with the standard ISO 22628: 2002. • Stellantis: Stellantis has integrated the principles of the circular economy into its business model, aiming to extend product lifespan and decrease natural resources usage. The company focuses on eco- design to reduce material consumption, promoting the use of green materials and responsibly managing the end-of-life products, vehicles and EV batteries, while seeking to reduce the usage of hazardous substances. Stellantis has developed a 4R strategy (Remanufacturing, Repair, Reuse, Recycle) and collaborates with suppliers and recycling operators to optimise resource use and improve vehicle recyclability. • Philips: Across its strategy for circularity, Philips has set targets to deliver the commitments to generate 25% of revenue from products, services and solutions contributing to circularity; design all new products introductions in line with EcoDesign requirements; embed circular practices at the company's sites and put zero waste to landfill; and offer responsible take-back on all professional equipment by 2025. 3. Social information 3.1 Exor employees Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair, and it is the duty of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them: AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Exor has a lean organisational structure at holding company level, employing 23 people at 31 December 2024. 120 BOARD REPORT"
"There is significant sustainability and business-conduct knowledge across Exor's Board of Directors and employees. This is further supported by accessing the knowledge present in the sustainability teams at the investee companies as well as Exor's network of expert advisors and consultants. Access to this knowledge helps Exor better identify, analyse and manage sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. More information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report, reported on page 66 and following pages. Sustainability Information Flows The Board of Directors, supported by the ESG Committee, oversees progress on Exor’s three sustainability passions of emissions reduction, education and diversity & inclusion, and also addresses the material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. The Board of Directors receives updates at least annually both from the ESG Committee and Exor's Leadership Team on topics such as material impacts, risks, opportunities, due diligence implementation, and the outcomes and effectiveness of policies, actions, metrics, and adopted targets. These bodies consider impacts, risks, and opportunities when overseeing the strategy, making decisions on major transactions, and managing risks, while also considering trade-offs associated with those impacts, risks and opportunities. Over the course of the year, the ESG Committee receives various updates from the Exor team on sustainability- related items and provides constructive feedback. These updates include Exor's progress and the evolution of its sustainability strategy, an annual update on the sustainability actions, targets, and performance of investee companies with a value of greater than 1% of Exor's Gross Asset Value, presentations from partners related to Exor's initiatives e.g. Fondazione Agnelli on Matabì (Exor's flagship education initiative), sustainability-linked compensation items and Exor's sustainability-related reporting. For the first year of ESRS reporting, the Board of Directors, the ESG Committee and the Audit Committee have all been involved in the process and have reviewed and approved the list of material impacts, risks and opportunities that resulted from the Double Materiality Assessment (described later in this section). Members of both the Audit and ESG Committees review the material included in Exor's sustainability reporting with the Audit Committee providing a recommendation to the Board of Directors for approval of the Sustainability Statement and, also in 2024, approval of Exor's first double materiality analysis. The Board of Directors of Exor approves the consolidated financial statements, which include the Company's sustainability reporting and company financial statements. Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes The remuneration of Executive Directors and management is subject to Exor's achievements, which include those related to sustainability, and is periodically reviewed by the Compensation Committee which assesses the adequacy of the performance measures used to support sustainable long-term value creation. The objective of Exor's Remuneration Policy, approved and adopted by the general meeting of shareholders held on 28 May 2024, is to provide a compensation structure that allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the most highly qualified executives to promote the growth and sustainable success of the Company and its business and that creates long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders in a manner consistent with the Company’s core business and leadership values. For these objectives to be achieved, the Remuneration Policy is determined considering (i) best practices in compensation policy design (in accordance, inter alia, with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code); and (ii) the need for sustainable compensation and aligned with the medium-to-long-term interests of all stakeholders. Executive remuneration may consist of the following primary components: i) base salary; ii) short-term incentive; iii) long-term incentive; and iv) retirement and other benefits. Each year Executive Directors may be awarded short-term and long-term incentives, depending on the performance during the relevant timeframe, including in relation to non-financial metrics such as sustainability measures. Sustainability measures are usually considered through the use of benchmarks, monitoring of trends via input from external consultants as well as discussions between Exor's Leadership Team and the Compensation and ESG Committees before then with the Board of Directors. These metrics are defined at the beginning of the year and are rooted in the strategic plan of the Company. 92 BOARD REPORT"
"The Compensation Committee is responsible for submitting a clear and understandable proposal to the Board concerning the Executive Directors remuneration policy. The Board determines the compensation for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company in accordance with this Policy. The Compensation Committee may invite members of the Board, other competent functions (for example, legal or finance) or other relevant employees to their meetings. To avoid any conflicts of interest, the Compensation Committee meetings usually include a so-called ‘closed’ session, during which only members of the Compensation Committee are present and the other meeting attendees, including Executive Directors, are requested to leave. In this way, Executive Directors, other Board members and other meeting attendees are not involved in any decisions and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration to avoid any conflicts of interest. At least once every four years, the Committee will review the adequacy, overall coherence and effective application of the Policy and make recommendations to the Board in respect of any proposed changes, after which it will be submitted for approval to the general meeting of shareholders. For the 2024 long-term incentive plan, two sustainability components were integrated with each having a weighting of 10% (therefore representing 20% of the total long-term incentive component). One component was linked to Exor's flagship education initiative Matabì, which is carried out in collaboration with Fondazione Agnelli (please refer to page 126-128 in section 3. Social information for more information on the project) and the other was linked to the quality of the CSRD reporting. Remuneration related to sustainability metrics and additional information on the incentive scheme can be found in the Remuneration Report, reported on page 151 (ESG Targets reported at page 156) and the Remuneration Policy available on the corporate regulations page of Exor's website. Statement on due diligence The following table shows how and where the application of the main aspects and steps of the due diligence process are reflected in this Sustainability Statement: BOARD REPORT 93"
"Core elements of due diligence Paragraphs in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Sustainability Information Flows 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Interests and views of stakeholders 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology Identifying and assessing adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Taking actions to address those adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation - General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.2 Diversity and inclusion 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Although Exor considers sustainability aspects as part of the due diligence process when evaluating new investments, there is not a formalised sustainability due diligence process. Exor is reflecting on how best to implement sustainability screening in a more structured way when assessing new investment opportunities. Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting To assess the risk affecting the Company’s activities and the effectiveness of the internal control system, Exor has in place an internal control and risk management system based on the model provided by the COSO Framework (""Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Report – Enterprise Risk Management model"") and the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. There are no specific internal controls in relation to the disclosures within the Sustainability Statement due also to the limited information disclosed. Exor will evaluate for future Sustainability Statements whether specific controls are required. Exor has no risk assessment specifically dedicated to sustainability reporting and instead considers the potential associated risks under its risk of ""non/late compliance with applicable legislation/regulations or changes, Business Ethics and Sustainability requirements"". To support its compliance with the applicable sustainability regulatory requirements, Exor involves an external consultant, who helps to provide additional expertise and objectivity where necessary. In relation to the sustainability reporting process, Exor prepares all its own operations reporting internally. The Chief Financial Officer of Exor oversees and is responsible for the preparation of this data. Value chain reporting is prepared with the support of investee companies who complete a reporting package as requested by Exor. The management of the investee companies is responsible for the preparation and delivery of their respective data. 94 BOARD REPORT"
"As part of its sustainability reporting process, Exor ensures to involve an outsourced Internal Audit to provide constructive support as well as Exor's external (statutory) auditors to maintain alignment and transparency throughout. Exor aims to continuously improve its processes regarding the collection and internal control of sustainability data both for its own operations as well as the value chain. Any issues or improvements to this process are managed by Exor and then reported, where necessary, to the Audit and ESG Committees as operational updates. More information can be found in the Risk Management and Key risks and key trends section of the Annual Report, reported on page 59-65. 1.3. Strategy and business model Exor is headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, listed on Euronext Amsterdam and included in the AEX Index. Its Gross Asset Value (GAV) and Net Asset Value (NAV) amounted to approximately €42 billion and €38 billion at 31 December 2024, respectively, and it is one of Europe’s largest investment holding companies. Most of Exor's investments are in leading global companies, both public and private, in which it is often the largest shareholder and the investments are held for capital appreciation, often for long-term periods in accordance with Exor's portfolio review process. With the introduction of the CSRD, it is also relevant to describe Exor's upstream and downstream activities. Upstream activities include procurement and investor relations, including a limited number of suppliers of goods and services (e.g. office equipment, consultancy companies, etc). Downstream activities refer to activities that take place at the investee companies' level. For reporting purposes, given Exor's lean structure of 23 employees at 31 December 2024 (more details are provided in section 3.1 Exor employees) and the particular nature of the value chain, the upstream value chain was deemed as less relevant compared to the downstream value chain in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities. In particular, due to the size of Exor, the upstream value chain mainly relates to the provision of goods and services to the Company, which, given its size, are very limited. The downstream value chain is significant in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities due to the size and nature of investments and Exor's activity as an investor. Upstream Own Operations Downstream Goods and services suppliers Exor offices Investee companies Investors Workforce Exor's purpose and values Exor believes that great companies are not just those that perform to the highest standards but also those that seek out renewal and change and are distinctive in what they do. HOW WE BUILD: WHAT MAKES A COMPANY GREAT: • Leaders who perform and embody our values • Governance aligned with ownership and leadership • Progressing on path to greatness BUILD GREAT COMPANIES • Distinctive in what it does • Seek renewal and change • Acts in a responsible way • Performs to the highest standards BOARD REPORT 95"
"Exor's ownership helps create environments where companies can thrive and helps empower leaders to build great companies. Exor does this by having an active role in the governance of the companies it owns and by working with fellow directors to create strong boards that can act as “critical friends” to those companies, challenging them to improve performance across all the dimensions of being a great company and supporting them when they face obstacles. Through this approach, Exor encourages its companies to set and achieve their sustainability goals while always being conscious of their autonomy. Some of the ways in which Exor supports its companies are outlined below. 1 CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE COMPANIES CAN THRIVE 2 EMPOWERING LEADERS TO BUILD GREAT COMPANIES 3 USING GOVERNANCE TO STEER OUR COMPANIES ✓Long-term committed capital ✓Use Exor's network to find new leaders ✓Build effective boards ✓Strong network ✓Act as a “critical-friend” to leaders in its companies ✓Support companies in their management successions ✓Support and challenge companies’ plans ✓Encourage the creation of strong and positive cultures ✓Play an active role in the boards of all its companies ✓Promote diversity and inclusiveness Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. It therefore recruits strong talent into its own organisation, offers equal opportunities, and creates a diverse and inclusive workforce. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair and it is the job of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them. AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Sustainability at Exor Exor publicly communicated its sustainability strategy in November 2021 at the Exor Investor Day, prior to which the strategy was presented to the ESG Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. In devising the strategy, Exor had carried out a detailed analysis to identify what topics were material for the Company as well as common across its investee companies, benchmarked the approach of other European holding peers, engaged with Exor employees from various functions, spoke to global sustainability leaders (both individuals & companies) and assessed international regulatory frameworks. As a result of this analysis, Exor established a set of key KPIs and targets it wanted to put in place for itself as well as an approach on how it would support its investee companies as a ""critical friend"" on their path to greatness. Exor believes that, to act in a responsible way, great companies should: • Align with best practices and reporting frameworks; • Identify priorities, set targets, measure and report progress; • Continue to raise the bar; • Aspire to industry sustainability leadership. 96 BOARD REPORT"
"• Philips: Philips has defined a Climate Action Program, which aims to reduce emissions across the entire value chain. The company has set emission reduction targets approved by the SBTi, aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Key actions include energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels, using renewable energy, and collaborating with suppliers and customers to amplify the impact and reduce the footprint across the value chain. Exor's Carbon Footprint Exor believes that, in order to pursue its passion of emissions reduction, the starting point is to calculate and monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at its own operations level but in particular in relation to its investee companies. Exor has measured and disclosed all its GHG footprints from 2019, well before the Company was subject to the requirements of the CSRD, demonstrating its long-term vision and strong commitment to sustainability. Even though climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations, in addition to Scope 3 data, it has also disclosed information related to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in continuity with historical reporting. Exor has calculated its GHG inventory in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative classifies GHG emissions into three “Scopes”: • Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by Exor; • Scope 2 covers indirect emissions that Exor causes from the generation of purchased electricity; • Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that originate from the value chain of the reporting company. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated according to the activity-based method which allows the calculation of GHG emissions associated with the company-specific activities, processes and/or products on the basis of detailed consumption data such as energy bills and information provided by buildings’ owners (with IEA and DEFRA emission factors), while a hybrid approach was adopted for Scope 3 emissions, incorporating both activity-based (with DEFRA emission factors) and spend-based, (adapting EPA emission factors) or average- based methods, depending on the Scope 3 Category. The table shows Exor's GHG emissions, broken down into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 116 BOARD REPORT"
"All units are (tCO2eq) 2024 Milestones and target years 2025 2030 2050 △ (base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 n.a n.a n.a n.a Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) —% n.a n.a n.a n.a Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 25 n.a n.a n.a n.a Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 n.a n.a n.a n.a Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42,344,330 n.a n.a n.a n.a 1 Purchased goods and services 686 n.a n.a n.a n.a 2 Capital goods N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 3 Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 n.a n.a n.a n.a 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 5 n.a n.a n.a n.a 5 Waste generated in operations 1 n.a n.a n.a n.a 6 Business travel 176 n.a n.a n.a n.a 7 Employee commuting 8 n.a n.a n.a n.a 8 Upstream leased assets 4 n.a n.a n.a n.a 9 Downstream transportation N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 10 Processing of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 11 Use of sold products 0 n.a n.a n.a n.a 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 13 Downstream leased assets N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 14 Franchises N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 15 Investments 42,343,442 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 42,344,366 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions (market- based) 42,344,351 n.a n.a n.a n.a Given the nature and scale of its business activities, Scope 3 emissions represent the most significant share of Exor’s overall carbon footprint. In line with the GHG Protocol guidelines, Exor has conducted a detailed assessment of its operations and investment portfolio to determine the materiality of each Scope 3 category. As a result, Categories 9 (“Downstream transportation and distribution”), 10 (“Processing of sold products”), 12 (“End-of-life treatment of sold products”), 13 (“Downstream leased assets”), and 14 (“Franchises”) have been excluded from the footprint calculation, as they are not deemed relevant to Exor’s business model. At the same time, Category 4 (“Upstream transportation and distribution”) has been incorporated into the Scope 3 reporting perimeter as of 2023 to enhance the completeness of the emissions inventory. Beyond its direct operations — where Scope 3 emissions primarily stem from purchased goods and services, capital goods, and business travel — Exor’s investment portfolio constitutes the predominant driver of its emissions profile. The nature of Exor’s business model means that Category 15 (“Investments”) accounts for the vast majority of its carbon footprint. Accordingly, the assessment of financed emissions follows the PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, ensuring methodological robustness, transparency, and consistency with international best practices. BOARD REPORT 117"
"The calculation of financed emissions relies on a structured approach based on PCAF’s prescribed methodologies. For listed equity investments, emissions are allocated using Exor’s proportional share of enterprise value including cash (EVIC), ensuring an accurate representation of its financial exposure to emissions-intensive activities. Regarding Scope 3 Category 15, in line with PCAF’s data quality scoring system, Exor has also continued to refine the accuracy of its financed emissions calculations by incorporating a more granular assessment of primary data sources, where available, and progressively reducing reliance on estimated emission factors for investee companies. For the calculation of the 2024 carbon footprint, only 1 in-scope investee company provided a PCAF data quality score lower than 1 (i.e. verified emissions), as it is yet to publish its annual sustainability reporting. Exor will continue to support its investee companies to accurately calculate their GHG footprint as a means to improve the accuracy of its own footprint. The refinement of Exor’s methodology has been a key focus throughout 2024, with a concerted effort to improve the quality of underlying data inputs and enhance the representativeness of reported emissions. As part of this continuous improvement process, Exor has updated the emission factors applied to selected Scope 3 categories, further strengthening the reliability of its carbon footprint assessment. The integration of refined metrics supports a more robust evaluation of emissions across its investment portfolio and aligns with the company’s broader approach to sustainability governance. The ongoing refinement of the methodology ensures that reported emissions more accurately reflect the underlying carbon intensity of investee companies, reinforcing the credibility of the overall emissions inventory. 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain Material sub-topics Material sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities E2 Pollution Pollution of air Risk in the value chain: environmental and health issues caused by the air pollution related to operations at investee-company level, especially related to industrial processes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Substances of concern Risk in the value chain: the emergence of laws regarding the use of harmful substances in consumer products of manufacturing/industrial investee companies may lead to increased regulatory oversight and financial losses due to reputational harm. (Short-Medium-Long Term) E5 Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use Resource outflows related to products and services Positive actual impact in the value chain: sourcing through the use of bio- sourced materials, recycled materials and materials of natural origin reducing resource depletion, such as use of water, deforestation and impact on local wildlife by embedding circular economy practices (e.g. marketing reconditioned products, reducing waste and resource extraction, also through repair, remanufacturing, reuse, recycling, revalorisation) (Medium-Long- Term) Waste Negative actual impact in the value chain: generation of waste linked to operational processes at investee companies, including hazardous waste and generation of plastics, packaging, electronic waste, deriving from their own operations and upstream activities. (Short-Medium Term) 118 BOARD REPORT"
"Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Topics ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Pollution Pollution of air 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% Substances of concern 2 73% 2 73% 2 73% 0 —% Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use 5 100% 4 83% 5 100% 3 27% Resource outflows related to products and services 3 86% 2 68% 2 30% 1 12% Waste 3 71% 3 71% 3 71% 2 14% % of adjusted GAV: total contribution of # of investee companies (from Ferrari, Stellantis, Philips, CNH and Iveco Group) divided by the total GAV contribution of those 5 companies The topic of pollution in the investee companies mainly relates to pollution of air and substances of concern, due to the activities carried out in their respective production lines. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • CNH: CNH is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its industrial processes by monitoring and managing air pollutant emissions. Alongside the GHG emissions, the company carefully monitors emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from its machinery and equipment, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions from its manufacturing processes, emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and inorganic particulate matter emitted by burning fossil fuels. • Iveco Group: Iveco Group has implemented several measures to reduce air pollution, focusing on reducing VOC emissions during painting processes and closely monitoring NOx, SOx, and particulate matter emissions. The company continuously optimises its manufacturing processes with advanced technologies, developing engines compatible with renewable fuels such as biomethane and hydrogen. Iveco Group adopts a precautionary approach in product design, manufacturing, logistics, and product end-of-life management. Additionally, Iveco Group applies technological solutions to ensure compliance with international air quality regulations and reduce CO2 emissions, enhancing environmental sustainability. BOARD REPORT 119"
"All in-scope investee companies demonstrated a focus on resource inflows and the efficient use of resources, highlighting their commitment to minimising the environmental impact of their operations and waste. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: Ferrari’s Environmental Practice promotes the reuse of waste materials in the production process according to a circular economy approach. It aims to reduce waste quantity and optimise the amount of materials sent to recovery plants. Ferrari has embraced circular economy principles by designing products with durability, repairability, and recyclability in mind. The minimum recyclability of vehicles sold is 85%, calculated in accordance with the standard ISO 22628: 2002. • Stellantis: Stellantis has integrated the principles of the circular economy into its business model, aiming to extend product lifespan and decrease natural resources usage. The company focuses on eco- design to reduce material consumption, promoting the use of green materials and responsibly managing the end-of-life products, vehicles and EV batteries, while seeking to reduce the usage of hazardous substances. Stellantis has developed a 4R strategy (Remanufacturing, Repair, Reuse, Recycle) and collaborates with suppliers and recycling operators to optimise resource use and improve vehicle recyclability. • Philips: Across its strategy for circularity, Philips has set targets to deliver the commitments to generate 25% of revenue from products, services and solutions contributing to circularity; design all new products introductions in line with EcoDesign requirements; embed circular practices at the company's sites and put zero waste to landfill; and offer responsible take-back on all professional equipment by 2025. 3. Social information 3.1 Exor employees Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair, and it is the duty of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them: AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Exor has a lean organisational structure at holding company level, employing 23 people at 31 December 2024. 120 BOARD REPORT"
"There is significant sustainability and business-conduct knowledge across Exor's Board of Directors and employees. This is further supported by accessing the knowledge present in the sustainability teams at the investee companies as well as Exor's network of expert advisors and consultants. Access to this knowledge helps Exor better identify, analyse and manage sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. More information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report, reported on page 66 and following pages. Sustainability Information Flows The Board of Directors, supported by the ESG Committee, oversees progress on Exor’s three sustainability passions of emissions reduction, education and diversity & inclusion, and also addresses the material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. The Board of Directors receives updates at least annually both from the ESG Committee and Exor's Leadership Team on topics such as material impacts, risks, opportunities, due diligence implementation, and the outcomes and effectiveness of policies, actions, metrics, and adopted targets. These bodies consider impacts, risks, and opportunities when overseeing the strategy, making decisions on major transactions, and managing risks, while also considering trade-offs associated with those impacts, risks and opportunities. Over the course of the year, the ESG Committee receives various updates from the Exor team on sustainability- related items and provides constructive feedback. These updates include Exor's progress and the evolution of its sustainability strategy, an annual update on the sustainability actions, targets, and performance of investee companies with a value of greater than 1% of Exor's Gross Asset Value, presentations from partners related to Exor's initiatives e.g. Fondazione Agnelli on Matabì (Exor's flagship education initiative), sustainability-linked compensation items and Exor's sustainability-related reporting. For the first year of ESRS reporting, the Board of Directors, the ESG Committee and the Audit Committee have all been involved in the process and have reviewed and approved the list of material impacts, risks and opportunities that resulted from the Double Materiality Assessment (described later in this section). Members of both the Audit and ESG Committees review the material included in Exor's sustainability reporting with the Audit Committee providing a recommendation to the Board of Directors for approval of the Sustainability Statement and, also in 2024, approval of Exor's first double materiality analysis. The Board of Directors of Exor approves the consolidated financial statements, which include the Company's sustainability reporting and company financial statements. Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes The remuneration of Executive Directors and management is subject to Exor's achievements, which include those related to sustainability, and is periodically reviewed by the Compensation Committee which assesses the adequacy of the performance measures used to support sustainable long-term value creation. The objective of Exor's Remuneration Policy, approved and adopted by the general meeting of shareholders held on 28 May 2024, is to provide a compensation structure that allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the most highly qualified executives to promote the growth and sustainable success of the Company and its business and that creates long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders in a manner consistent with the Company’s core business and leadership values. For these objectives to be achieved, the Remuneration Policy is determined considering (i) best practices in compensation policy design (in accordance, inter alia, with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code); and (ii) the need for sustainable compensation and aligned with the medium-to-long-term interests of all stakeholders. Executive remuneration may consist of the following primary components: i) base salary; ii) short-term incentive; iii) long-term incentive; and iv) retirement and other benefits. Each year Executive Directors may be awarded short-term and long-term incentives, depending on the performance during the relevant timeframe, including in relation to non-financial metrics such as sustainability measures. Sustainability measures are usually considered through the use of benchmarks, monitoring of trends via input from external consultants as well as discussions between Exor's Leadership Team and the Compensation and ESG Committees before then with the Board of Directors. These metrics are defined at the beginning of the year and are rooted in the strategic plan of the Company. 92 BOARD REPORT"
"The Compensation Committee is responsible for submitting a clear and understandable proposal to the Board concerning the Executive Directors remuneration policy. The Board determines the compensation for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company in accordance with this Policy. The Compensation Committee may invite members of the Board, other competent functions (for example, legal or finance) or other relevant employees to their meetings. To avoid any conflicts of interest, the Compensation Committee meetings usually include a so-called ‘closed’ session, during which only members of the Compensation Committee are present and the other meeting attendees, including Executive Directors, are requested to leave. In this way, Executive Directors, other Board members and other meeting attendees are not involved in any decisions and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration to avoid any conflicts of interest. At least once every four years, the Committee will review the adequacy, overall coherence and effective application of the Policy and make recommendations to the Board in respect of any proposed changes, after which it will be submitted for approval to the general meeting of shareholders. For the 2024 long-term incentive plan, two sustainability components were integrated with each having a weighting of 10% (therefore representing 20% of the total long-term incentive component). One component was linked to Exor's flagship education initiative Matabì, which is carried out in collaboration with Fondazione Agnelli (please refer to page 126-128 in section 3. Social information for more information on the project) and the other was linked to the quality of the CSRD reporting. Remuneration related to sustainability metrics and additional information on the incentive scheme can be found in the Remuneration Report, reported on page 151 (ESG Targets reported at page 156) and the Remuneration Policy available on the corporate regulations page of Exor's website. Statement on due diligence The following table shows how and where the application of the main aspects and steps of the due diligence process are reflected in this Sustainability Statement: BOARD REPORT 93"
"Core elements of due diligence Paragraphs in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Sustainability Information Flows 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Interests and views of stakeholders 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology Identifying and assessing adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Taking actions to address those adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation - General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.2 Diversity and inclusion 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Although Exor considers sustainability aspects as part of the due diligence process when evaluating new investments, there is not a formalised sustainability due diligence process. Exor is reflecting on how best to implement sustainability screening in a more structured way when assessing new investment opportunities. Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting To assess the risk affecting the Company’s activities and the effectiveness of the internal control system, Exor has in place an internal control and risk management system based on the model provided by the COSO Framework (""Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Report – Enterprise Risk Management model"") and the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. There are no specific internal controls in relation to the disclosures within the Sustainability Statement due also to the limited information disclosed. Exor will evaluate for future Sustainability Statements whether specific controls are required. Exor has no risk assessment specifically dedicated to sustainability reporting and instead considers the potential associated risks under its risk of ""non/late compliance with applicable legislation/regulations or changes, Business Ethics and Sustainability requirements"". To support its compliance with the applicable sustainability regulatory requirements, Exor involves an external consultant, who helps to provide additional expertise and objectivity where necessary. In relation to the sustainability reporting process, Exor prepares all its own operations reporting internally. The Chief Financial Officer of Exor oversees and is responsible for the preparation of this data. Value chain reporting is prepared with the support of investee companies who complete a reporting package as requested by Exor. The management of the investee companies is responsible for the preparation and delivery of their respective data. 94 BOARD REPORT"
"As part of its sustainability reporting process, Exor ensures to involve an outsourced Internal Audit to provide constructive support as well as Exor's external (statutory) auditors to maintain alignment and transparency throughout. Exor aims to continuously improve its processes regarding the collection and internal control of sustainability data both for its own operations as well as the value chain. Any issues or improvements to this process are managed by Exor and then reported, where necessary, to the Audit and ESG Committees as operational updates. More information can be found in the Risk Management and Key risks and key trends section of the Annual Report, reported on page 59-65. 1.3. Strategy and business model Exor is headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, listed on Euronext Amsterdam and included in the AEX Index. Its Gross Asset Value (GAV) and Net Asset Value (NAV) amounted to approximately €42 billion and €38 billion at 31 December 2024, respectively, and it is one of Europe’s largest investment holding companies. Most of Exor's investments are in leading global companies, both public and private, in which it is often the largest shareholder and the investments are held for capital appreciation, often for long-term periods in accordance with Exor's portfolio review process. With the introduction of the CSRD, it is also relevant to describe Exor's upstream and downstream activities. Upstream activities include procurement and investor relations, including a limited number of suppliers of goods and services (e.g. office equipment, consultancy companies, etc). Downstream activities refer to activities that take place at the investee companies' level. For reporting purposes, given Exor's lean structure of 23 employees at 31 December 2024 (more details are provided in section 3.1 Exor employees) and the particular nature of the value chain, the upstream value chain was deemed as less relevant compared to the downstream value chain in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities. In particular, due to the size of Exor, the upstream value chain mainly relates to the provision of goods and services to the Company, which, given its size, are very limited. The downstream value chain is significant in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities due to the size and nature of investments and Exor's activity as an investor. Upstream Own Operations Downstream Goods and services suppliers Exor offices Investee companies Investors Workforce Exor's purpose and values Exor believes that great companies are not just those that perform to the highest standards but also those that seek out renewal and change and are distinctive in what they do. HOW WE BUILD: WHAT MAKES A COMPANY GREAT: • Leaders who perform and embody our values • Governance aligned with ownership and leadership • Progressing on path to greatness BUILD GREAT COMPANIES • Distinctive in what it does • Seek renewal and change • Acts in a responsible way • Performs to the highest standards BOARD REPORT 95"
"Exor's ownership helps create environments where companies can thrive and helps empower leaders to build great companies. Exor does this by having an active role in the governance of the companies it owns and by working with fellow directors to create strong boards that can act as “critical friends” to those companies, challenging them to improve performance across all the dimensions of being a great company and supporting them when they face obstacles. Through this approach, Exor encourages its companies to set and achieve their sustainability goals while always being conscious of their autonomy. Some of the ways in which Exor supports its companies are outlined below. 1 CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE COMPANIES CAN THRIVE 2 EMPOWERING LEADERS TO BUILD GREAT COMPANIES 3 USING GOVERNANCE TO STEER OUR COMPANIES ✓Long-term committed capital ✓Use Exor's network to find new leaders ✓Build effective boards ✓Strong network ✓Act as a “critical-friend” to leaders in its companies ✓Support companies in their management successions ✓Support and challenge companies’ plans ✓Encourage the creation of strong and positive cultures ✓Play an active role in the boards of all its companies ✓Promote diversity and inclusiveness Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. It therefore recruits strong talent into its own organisation, offers equal opportunities, and creates a diverse and inclusive workforce. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair and it is the job of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them. AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Sustainability at Exor Exor publicly communicated its sustainability strategy in November 2021 at the Exor Investor Day, prior to which the strategy was presented to the ESG Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. In devising the strategy, Exor had carried out a detailed analysis to identify what topics were material for the Company as well as common across its investee companies, benchmarked the approach of other European holding peers, engaged with Exor employees from various functions, spoke to global sustainability leaders (both individuals & companies) and assessed international regulatory frameworks. As a result of this analysis, Exor established a set of key KPIs and targets it wanted to put in place for itself as well as an approach on how it would support its investee companies as a ""critical friend"" on their path to greatness. Exor believes that, to act in a responsible way, great companies should: • Align with best practices and reporting frameworks; • Identify priorities, set targets, measure and report progress; • Continue to raise the bar; • Aspire to industry sustainability leadership. 96 BOARD REPORT"
"• Philips: Philips has defined a Climate Action Program, which aims to reduce emissions across the entire value chain. The company has set emission reduction targets approved by the SBTi, aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Key actions include energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels, using renewable energy, and collaborating with suppliers and customers to amplify the impact and reduce the footprint across the value chain. Exor's Carbon Footprint Exor believes that, in order to pursue its passion of emissions reduction, the starting point is to calculate and monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at its own operations level but in particular in relation to its investee companies. Exor has measured and disclosed all its GHG footprints from 2019, well before the Company was subject to the requirements of the CSRD, demonstrating its long-term vision and strong commitment to sustainability. Even though climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations, in addition to Scope 3 data, it has also disclosed information related to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in continuity with historical reporting. Exor has calculated its GHG inventory in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative classifies GHG emissions into three “Scopes”: • Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by Exor; • Scope 2 covers indirect emissions that Exor causes from the generation of purchased electricity; • Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that originate from the value chain of the reporting company. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated according to the activity-based method which allows the calculation of GHG emissions associated with the company-specific activities, processes and/or products on the basis of detailed consumption data such as energy bills and information provided by buildings’ owners (with IEA and DEFRA emission factors), while a hybrid approach was adopted for Scope 3 emissions, incorporating both activity-based (with DEFRA emission factors) and spend-based, (adapting EPA emission factors) or average- based methods, depending on the Scope 3 Category. The table shows Exor's GHG emissions, broken down into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 116 BOARD REPORT"
"All units are (tCO2eq) 2024 Milestones and target years 2025 2030 2050 △ (base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 n.a n.a n.a n.a Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) —% n.a n.a n.a n.a Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 25 n.a n.a n.a n.a Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 n.a n.a n.a n.a Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42,344,330 n.a n.a n.a n.a 1 Purchased goods and services 686 n.a n.a n.a n.a 2 Capital goods N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 3 Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 n.a n.a n.a n.a 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 5 n.a n.a n.a n.a 5 Waste generated in operations 1 n.a n.a n.a n.a 6 Business travel 176 n.a n.a n.a n.a 7 Employee commuting 8 n.a n.a n.a n.a 8 Upstream leased assets 4 n.a n.a n.a n.a 9 Downstream transportation N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 10 Processing of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 11 Use of sold products 0 n.a n.a n.a n.a 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 13 Downstream leased assets N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 14 Franchises N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 15 Investments 42,343,442 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 42,344,366 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions (market- based) 42,344,351 n.a n.a n.a n.a Given the nature and scale of its business activities, Scope 3 emissions represent the most significant share of Exor’s overall carbon footprint. In line with the GHG Protocol guidelines, Exor has conducted a detailed assessment of its operations and investment portfolio to determine the materiality of each Scope 3 category. As a result, Categories 9 (“Downstream transportation and distribution”), 10 (“Processing of sold products”), 12 (“End-of-life treatment of sold products”), 13 (“Downstream leased assets”), and 14 (“Franchises”) have been excluded from the footprint calculation, as they are not deemed relevant to Exor’s business model. At the same time, Category 4 (“Upstream transportation and distribution”) has been incorporated into the Scope 3 reporting perimeter as of 2023 to enhance the completeness of the emissions inventory. Beyond its direct operations — where Scope 3 emissions primarily stem from purchased goods and services, capital goods, and business travel — Exor’s investment portfolio constitutes the predominant driver of its emissions profile. The nature of Exor’s business model means that Category 15 (“Investments”) accounts for the vast majority of its carbon footprint. Accordingly, the assessment of financed emissions follows the PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, ensuring methodological robustness, transparency, and consistency with international best practices. BOARD REPORT 117"
"The calculation of financed emissions relies on a structured approach based on PCAF’s prescribed methodologies. For listed equity investments, emissions are allocated using Exor’s proportional share of enterprise value including cash (EVIC), ensuring an accurate representation of its financial exposure to emissions-intensive activities. Regarding Scope 3 Category 15, in line with PCAF’s data quality scoring system, Exor has also continued to refine the accuracy of its financed emissions calculations by incorporating a more granular assessment of primary data sources, where available, and progressively reducing reliance on estimated emission factors for investee companies. For the calculation of the 2024 carbon footprint, only 1 in-scope investee company provided a PCAF data quality score lower than 1 (i.e. verified emissions), as it is yet to publish its annual sustainability reporting. Exor will continue to support its investee companies to accurately calculate their GHG footprint as a means to improve the accuracy of its own footprint. The refinement of Exor’s methodology has been a key focus throughout 2024, with a concerted effort to improve the quality of underlying data inputs and enhance the representativeness of reported emissions. As part of this continuous improvement process, Exor has updated the emission factors applied to selected Scope 3 categories, further strengthening the reliability of its carbon footprint assessment. The integration of refined metrics supports a more robust evaluation of emissions across its investment portfolio and aligns with the company’s broader approach to sustainability governance. The ongoing refinement of the methodology ensures that reported emissions more accurately reflect the underlying carbon intensity of investee companies, reinforcing the credibility of the overall emissions inventory. 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain Material sub-topics Material sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities E2 Pollution Pollution of air Risk in the value chain: environmental and health issues caused by the air pollution related to operations at investee-company level, especially related to industrial processes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Substances of concern Risk in the value chain: the emergence of laws regarding the use of harmful substances in consumer products of manufacturing/industrial investee companies may lead to increased regulatory oversight and financial losses due to reputational harm. (Short-Medium-Long Term) E5 Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use Resource outflows related to products and services Positive actual impact in the value chain: sourcing through the use of bio- sourced materials, recycled materials and materials of natural origin reducing resource depletion, such as use of water, deforestation and impact on local wildlife by embedding circular economy practices (e.g. marketing reconditioned products, reducing waste and resource extraction, also through repair, remanufacturing, reuse, recycling, revalorisation) (Medium-Long- Term) Waste Negative actual impact in the value chain: generation of waste linked to operational processes at investee companies, including hazardous waste and generation of plastics, packaging, electronic waste, deriving from their own operations and upstream activities. (Short-Medium Term) 118 BOARD REPORT"
"Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Topics ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Pollution Pollution of air 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% Substances of concern 2 73% 2 73% 2 73% 0 —% Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use 5 100% 4 83% 5 100% 3 27% Resource outflows related to products and services 3 86% 2 68% 2 30% 1 12% Waste 3 71% 3 71% 3 71% 2 14% % of adjusted GAV: total contribution of # of investee companies (from Ferrari, Stellantis, Philips, CNH and Iveco Group) divided by the total GAV contribution of those 5 companies The topic of pollution in the investee companies mainly relates to pollution of air and substances of concern, due to the activities carried out in their respective production lines. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • CNH: CNH is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its industrial processes by monitoring and managing air pollutant emissions. Alongside the GHG emissions, the company carefully monitors emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from its machinery and equipment, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions from its manufacturing processes, emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and inorganic particulate matter emitted by burning fossil fuels. • Iveco Group: Iveco Group has implemented several measures to reduce air pollution, focusing on reducing VOC emissions during painting processes and closely monitoring NOx, SOx, and particulate matter emissions. The company continuously optimises its manufacturing processes with advanced technologies, developing engines compatible with renewable fuels such as biomethane and hydrogen. Iveco Group adopts a precautionary approach in product design, manufacturing, logistics, and product end-of-life management. Additionally, Iveco Group applies technological solutions to ensure compliance with international air quality regulations and reduce CO2 emissions, enhancing environmental sustainability. BOARD REPORT 119"
"All in-scope investee companies demonstrated a focus on resource inflows and the efficient use of resources, highlighting their commitment to minimising the environmental impact of their operations and waste. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: Ferrari’s Environmental Practice promotes the reuse of waste materials in the production process according to a circular economy approach. It aims to reduce waste quantity and optimise the amount of materials sent to recovery plants. Ferrari has embraced circular economy principles by designing products with durability, repairability, and recyclability in mind. The minimum recyclability of vehicles sold is 85%, calculated in accordance with the standard ISO 22628: 2002. • Stellantis: Stellantis has integrated the principles of the circular economy into its business model, aiming to extend product lifespan and decrease natural resources usage. The company focuses on eco- design to reduce material consumption, promoting the use of green materials and responsibly managing the end-of-life products, vehicles and EV batteries, while seeking to reduce the usage of hazardous substances. Stellantis has developed a 4R strategy (Remanufacturing, Repair, Reuse, Recycle) and collaborates with suppliers and recycling operators to optimise resource use and improve vehicle recyclability. • Philips: Across its strategy for circularity, Philips has set targets to deliver the commitments to generate 25% of revenue from products, services and solutions contributing to circularity; design all new products introductions in line with EcoDesign requirements; embed circular practices at the company's sites and put zero waste to landfill; and offer responsible take-back on all professional equipment by 2025. 3. Social information 3.1 Exor employees Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair, and it is the duty of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them: AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Exor has a lean organisational structure at holding company level, employing 23 people at 31 December 2024. 120 BOARD REPORT"
"There is significant sustainability and business-conduct knowledge across Exor's Board of Directors and employees. This is further supported by accessing the knowledge present in the sustainability teams at the investee companies as well as Exor's network of expert advisors and consultants. Access to this knowledge helps Exor better identify, analyse and manage sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. More information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report, reported on page 66 and following pages. Sustainability Information Flows The Board of Directors, supported by the ESG Committee, oversees progress on Exor’s three sustainability passions of emissions reduction, education and diversity & inclusion, and also addresses the material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. The Board of Directors receives updates at least annually both from the ESG Committee and Exor's Leadership Team on topics such as material impacts, risks, opportunities, due diligence implementation, and the outcomes and effectiveness of policies, actions, metrics, and adopted targets. These bodies consider impacts, risks, and opportunities when overseeing the strategy, making decisions on major transactions, and managing risks, while also considering trade-offs associated with those impacts, risks and opportunities. Over the course of the year, the ESG Committee receives various updates from the Exor team on sustainability- related items and provides constructive feedback. These updates include Exor's progress and the evolution of its sustainability strategy, an annual update on the sustainability actions, targets, and performance of investee companies with a value of greater than 1% of Exor's Gross Asset Value, presentations from partners related to Exor's initiatives e.g. Fondazione Agnelli on Matabì (Exor's flagship education initiative), sustainability-linked compensation items and Exor's sustainability-related reporting. For the first year of ESRS reporting, the Board of Directors, the ESG Committee and the Audit Committee have all been involved in the process and have reviewed and approved the list of material impacts, risks and opportunities that resulted from the Double Materiality Assessment (described later in this section). Members of both the Audit and ESG Committees review the material included in Exor's sustainability reporting with the Audit Committee providing a recommendation to the Board of Directors for approval of the Sustainability Statement and, also in 2024, approval of Exor's first double materiality analysis. The Board of Directors of Exor approves the consolidated financial statements, which include the Company's sustainability reporting and company financial statements. Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes The remuneration of Executive Directors and management is subject to Exor's achievements, which include those related to sustainability, and is periodically reviewed by the Compensation Committee which assesses the adequacy of the performance measures used to support sustainable long-term value creation. The objective of Exor's Remuneration Policy, approved and adopted by the general meeting of shareholders held on 28 May 2024, is to provide a compensation structure that allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the most highly qualified executives to promote the growth and sustainable success of the Company and its business and that creates long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders in a manner consistent with the Company’s core business and leadership values. For these objectives to be achieved, the Remuneration Policy is determined considering (i) best practices in compensation policy design (in accordance, inter alia, with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code); and (ii) the need for sustainable compensation and aligned with the medium-to-long-term interests of all stakeholders. Executive remuneration may consist of the following primary components: i) base salary; ii) short-term incentive; iii) long-term incentive; and iv) retirement and other benefits. Each year Executive Directors may be awarded short-term and long-term incentives, depending on the performance during the relevant timeframe, including in relation to non-financial metrics such as sustainability measures. Sustainability measures are usually considered through the use of benchmarks, monitoring of trends via input from external consultants as well as discussions between Exor's Leadership Team and the Compensation and ESG Committees before then with the Board of Directors. These metrics are defined at the beginning of the year and are rooted in the strategic plan of the Company. 92 BOARD REPORT"
"The Compensation Committee is responsible for submitting a clear and understandable proposal to the Board concerning the Executive Directors remuneration policy. The Board determines the compensation for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company in accordance with this Policy. The Compensation Committee may invite members of the Board, other competent functions (for example, legal or finance) or other relevant employees to their meetings. To avoid any conflicts of interest, the Compensation Committee meetings usually include a so-called ‘closed’ session, during which only members of the Compensation Committee are present and the other meeting attendees, including Executive Directors, are requested to leave. In this way, Executive Directors, other Board members and other meeting attendees are not involved in any decisions and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration to avoid any conflicts of interest. At least once every four years, the Committee will review the adequacy, overall coherence and effective application of the Policy and make recommendations to the Board in respect of any proposed changes, after which it will be submitted for approval to the general meeting of shareholders. For the 2024 long-term incentive plan, two sustainability components were integrated with each having a weighting of 10% (therefore representing 20% of the total long-term incentive component). One component was linked to Exor's flagship education initiative Matabì, which is carried out in collaboration with Fondazione Agnelli (please refer to page 126-128 in section 3. Social information for more information on the project) and the other was linked to the quality of the CSRD reporting. Remuneration related to sustainability metrics and additional information on the incentive scheme can be found in the Remuneration Report, reported on page 151 (ESG Targets reported at page 156) and the Remuneration Policy available on the corporate regulations page of Exor's website. Statement on due diligence The following table shows how and where the application of the main aspects and steps of the due diligence process are reflected in this Sustainability Statement: BOARD REPORT 93"
"Core elements of due diligence Paragraphs in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Sustainability Information Flows 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Interests and views of stakeholders 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology Identifying and assessing adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Taking actions to address those adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation - General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.2 Diversity and inclusion 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Although Exor considers sustainability aspects as part of the due diligence process when evaluating new investments, there is not a formalised sustainability due diligence process. Exor is reflecting on how best to implement sustainability screening in a more structured way when assessing new investment opportunities. Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting To assess the risk affecting the Company’s activities and the effectiveness of the internal control system, Exor has in place an internal control and risk management system based on the model provided by the COSO Framework (""Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Report – Enterprise Risk Management model"") and the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. There are no specific internal controls in relation to the disclosures within the Sustainability Statement due also to the limited information disclosed. Exor will evaluate for future Sustainability Statements whether specific controls are required. Exor has no risk assessment specifically dedicated to sustainability reporting and instead considers the potential associated risks under its risk of ""non/late compliance with applicable legislation/regulations or changes, Business Ethics and Sustainability requirements"". To support its compliance with the applicable sustainability regulatory requirements, Exor involves an external consultant, who helps to provide additional expertise and objectivity where necessary. In relation to the sustainability reporting process, Exor prepares all its own operations reporting internally. The Chief Financial Officer of Exor oversees and is responsible for the preparation of this data. Value chain reporting is prepared with the support of investee companies who complete a reporting package as requested by Exor. The management of the investee companies is responsible for the preparation and delivery of their respective data. 94 BOARD REPORT"
"As part of its sustainability reporting process, Exor ensures to involve an outsourced Internal Audit to provide constructive support as well as Exor's external (statutory) auditors to maintain alignment and transparency throughout. Exor aims to continuously improve its processes regarding the collection and internal control of sustainability data both for its own operations as well as the value chain. Any issues or improvements to this process are managed by Exor and then reported, where necessary, to the Audit and ESG Committees as operational updates. More information can be found in the Risk Management and Key risks and key trends section of the Annual Report, reported on page 59-65. 1.3. Strategy and business model Exor is headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, listed on Euronext Amsterdam and included in the AEX Index. Its Gross Asset Value (GAV) and Net Asset Value (NAV) amounted to approximately €42 billion and €38 billion at 31 December 2024, respectively, and it is one of Europe’s largest investment holding companies. Most of Exor's investments are in leading global companies, both public and private, in which it is often the largest shareholder and the investments are held for capital appreciation, often for long-term periods in accordance with Exor's portfolio review process. With the introduction of the CSRD, it is also relevant to describe Exor's upstream and downstream activities. Upstream activities include procurement and investor relations, including a limited number of suppliers of goods and services (e.g. office equipment, consultancy companies, etc). Downstream activities refer to activities that take place at the investee companies' level. For reporting purposes, given Exor's lean structure of 23 employees at 31 December 2024 (more details are provided in section 3.1 Exor employees) and the particular nature of the value chain, the upstream value chain was deemed as less relevant compared to the downstream value chain in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities. In particular, due to the size of Exor, the upstream value chain mainly relates to the provision of goods and services to the Company, which, given its size, are very limited. The downstream value chain is significant in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities due to the size and nature of investments and Exor's activity as an investor. Upstream Own Operations Downstream Goods and services suppliers Exor offices Investee companies Investors Workforce Exor's purpose and values Exor believes that great companies are not just those that perform to the highest standards but also those that seek out renewal and change and are distinctive in what they do. HOW WE BUILD: WHAT MAKES A COMPANY GREAT: • Leaders who perform and embody our values • Governance aligned with ownership and leadership • Progressing on path to greatness BUILD GREAT COMPANIES • Distinctive in what it does • Seek renewal and change • Acts in a responsible way • Performs to the highest standards BOARD REPORT 95"
"Exor's ownership helps create environments where companies can thrive and helps empower leaders to build great companies. Exor does this by having an active role in the governance of the companies it owns and by working with fellow directors to create strong boards that can act as “critical friends” to those companies, challenging them to improve performance across all the dimensions of being a great company and supporting them when they face obstacles. Through this approach, Exor encourages its companies to set and achieve their sustainability goals while always being conscious of their autonomy. Some of the ways in which Exor supports its companies are outlined below. 1 CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE COMPANIES CAN THRIVE 2 EMPOWERING LEADERS TO BUILD GREAT COMPANIES 3 USING GOVERNANCE TO STEER OUR COMPANIES ✓Long-term committed capital ✓Use Exor's network to find new leaders ✓Build effective boards ✓Strong network ✓Act as a “critical-friend” to leaders in its companies ✓Support companies in their management successions ✓Support and challenge companies’ plans ✓Encourage the creation of strong and positive cultures ✓Play an active role in the boards of all its companies ✓Promote diversity and inclusiveness Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. It therefore recruits strong talent into its own organisation, offers equal opportunities, and creates a diverse and inclusive workforce. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair and it is the job of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them. AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Sustainability at Exor Exor publicly communicated its sustainability strategy in November 2021 at the Exor Investor Day, prior to which the strategy was presented to the ESG Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. In devising the strategy, Exor had carried out a detailed analysis to identify what topics were material for the Company as well as common across its investee companies, benchmarked the approach of other European holding peers, engaged with Exor employees from various functions, spoke to global sustainability leaders (both individuals & companies) and assessed international regulatory frameworks. As a result of this analysis, Exor established a set of key KPIs and targets it wanted to put in place for itself as well as an approach on how it would support its investee companies as a ""critical friend"" on their path to greatness. Exor believes that, to act in a responsible way, great companies should: • Align with best practices and reporting frameworks; • Identify priorities, set targets, measure and report progress; • Continue to raise the bar; • Aspire to industry sustainability leadership. 96 BOARD REPORT"
"• Philips: Philips has defined a Climate Action Program, which aims to reduce emissions across the entire value chain. The company has set emission reduction targets approved by the SBTi, aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Key actions include energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels, using renewable energy, and collaborating with suppliers and customers to amplify the impact and reduce the footprint across the value chain. Exor's Carbon Footprint Exor believes that, in order to pursue its passion of emissions reduction, the starting point is to calculate and monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at its own operations level but in particular in relation to its investee companies. Exor has measured and disclosed all its GHG footprints from 2019, well before the Company was subject to the requirements of the CSRD, demonstrating its long-term vision and strong commitment to sustainability. Even though climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations, in addition to Scope 3 data, it has also disclosed information related to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in continuity with historical reporting. Exor has calculated its GHG inventory in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative classifies GHG emissions into three “Scopes”: • Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by Exor; • Scope 2 covers indirect emissions that Exor causes from the generation of purchased electricity; • Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that originate from the value chain of the reporting company. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated according to the activity-based method which allows the calculation of GHG emissions associated with the company-specific activities, processes and/or products on the basis of detailed consumption data such as energy bills and information provided by buildings’ owners (with IEA and DEFRA emission factors), while a hybrid approach was adopted for Scope 3 emissions, incorporating both activity-based (with DEFRA emission factors) and spend-based, (adapting EPA emission factors) or average- based methods, depending on the Scope 3 Category. The table shows Exor's GHG emissions, broken down into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 116 BOARD REPORT"
"All units are (tCO2eq) 2024 Milestones and target years 2025 2030 2050 △ (base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 n.a n.a n.a n.a Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) —% n.a n.a n.a n.a Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 25 n.a n.a n.a n.a Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 n.a n.a n.a n.a Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42,344,330 n.a n.a n.a n.a 1 Purchased goods and services 686 n.a n.a n.a n.a 2 Capital goods N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 3 Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 n.a n.a n.a n.a 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 5 n.a n.a n.a n.a 5 Waste generated in operations 1 n.a n.a n.a n.a 6 Business travel 176 n.a n.a n.a n.a 7 Employee commuting 8 n.a n.a n.a n.a 8 Upstream leased assets 4 n.a n.a n.a n.a 9 Downstream transportation N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 10 Processing of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 11 Use of sold products 0 n.a n.a n.a n.a 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 13 Downstream leased assets N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 14 Franchises N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 15 Investments 42,343,442 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 42,344,366 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions (market- based) 42,344,351 n.a n.a n.a n.a Given the nature and scale of its business activities, Scope 3 emissions represent the most significant share of Exor’s overall carbon footprint. In line with the GHG Protocol guidelines, Exor has conducted a detailed assessment of its operations and investment portfolio to determine the materiality of each Scope 3 category. As a result, Categories 9 (“Downstream transportation and distribution”), 10 (“Processing of sold products”), 12 (“End-of-life treatment of sold products”), 13 (“Downstream leased assets”), and 14 (“Franchises”) have been excluded from the footprint calculation, as they are not deemed relevant to Exor’s business model. At the same time, Category 4 (“Upstream transportation and distribution”) has been incorporated into the Scope 3 reporting perimeter as of 2023 to enhance the completeness of the emissions inventory. Beyond its direct operations — where Scope 3 emissions primarily stem from purchased goods and services, capital goods, and business travel — Exor’s investment portfolio constitutes the predominant driver of its emissions profile. The nature of Exor’s business model means that Category 15 (“Investments”) accounts for the vast majority of its carbon footprint. Accordingly, the assessment of financed emissions follows the PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, ensuring methodological robustness, transparency, and consistency with international best practices. BOARD REPORT 117"
"The calculation of financed emissions relies on a structured approach based on PCAF’s prescribed methodologies. For listed equity investments, emissions are allocated using Exor’s proportional share of enterprise value including cash (EVIC), ensuring an accurate representation of its financial exposure to emissions-intensive activities. Regarding Scope 3 Category 15, in line with PCAF’s data quality scoring system, Exor has also continued to refine the accuracy of its financed emissions calculations by incorporating a more granular assessment of primary data sources, where available, and progressively reducing reliance on estimated emission factors for investee companies. For the calculation of the 2024 carbon footprint, only 1 in-scope investee company provided a PCAF data quality score lower than 1 (i.e. verified emissions), as it is yet to publish its annual sustainability reporting. Exor will continue to support its investee companies to accurately calculate their GHG footprint as a means to improve the accuracy of its own footprint. The refinement of Exor’s methodology has been a key focus throughout 2024, with a concerted effort to improve the quality of underlying data inputs and enhance the representativeness of reported emissions. As part of this continuous improvement process, Exor has updated the emission factors applied to selected Scope 3 categories, further strengthening the reliability of its carbon footprint assessment. The integration of refined metrics supports a more robust evaluation of emissions across its investment portfolio and aligns with the company’s broader approach to sustainability governance. The ongoing refinement of the methodology ensures that reported emissions more accurately reflect the underlying carbon intensity of investee companies, reinforcing the credibility of the overall emissions inventory. 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain Material sub-topics Material sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities E2 Pollution Pollution of air Risk in the value chain: environmental and health issues caused by the air pollution related to operations at investee-company level, especially related to industrial processes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Substances of concern Risk in the value chain: the emergence of laws regarding the use of harmful substances in consumer products of manufacturing/industrial investee companies may lead to increased regulatory oversight and financial losses due to reputational harm. (Short-Medium-Long Term) E5 Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use Resource outflows related to products and services Positive actual impact in the value chain: sourcing through the use of bio- sourced materials, recycled materials and materials of natural origin reducing resource depletion, such as use of water, deforestation and impact on local wildlife by embedding circular economy practices (e.g. marketing reconditioned products, reducing waste and resource extraction, also through repair, remanufacturing, reuse, recycling, revalorisation) (Medium-Long- Term) Waste Negative actual impact in the value chain: generation of waste linked to operational processes at investee companies, including hazardous waste and generation of plastics, packaging, electronic waste, deriving from their own operations and upstream activities. (Short-Medium Term) 118 BOARD REPORT"
"Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Topics ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Pollution Pollution of air 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% Substances of concern 2 73% 2 73% 2 73% 0 —% Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use 5 100% 4 83% 5 100% 3 27% Resource outflows related to products and services 3 86% 2 68% 2 30% 1 12% Waste 3 71% 3 71% 3 71% 2 14% % of adjusted GAV: total contribution of # of investee companies (from Ferrari, Stellantis, Philips, CNH and Iveco Group) divided by the total GAV contribution of those 5 companies The topic of pollution in the investee companies mainly relates to pollution of air and substances of concern, due to the activities carried out in their respective production lines. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • CNH: CNH is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its industrial processes by monitoring and managing air pollutant emissions. Alongside the GHG emissions, the company carefully monitors emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from its machinery and equipment, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions from its manufacturing processes, emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and inorganic particulate matter emitted by burning fossil fuels. • Iveco Group: Iveco Group has implemented several measures to reduce air pollution, focusing on reducing VOC emissions during painting processes and closely monitoring NOx, SOx, and particulate matter emissions. The company continuously optimises its manufacturing processes with advanced technologies, developing engines compatible with renewable fuels such as biomethane and hydrogen. Iveco Group adopts a precautionary approach in product design, manufacturing, logistics, and product end-of-life management. Additionally, Iveco Group applies technological solutions to ensure compliance with international air quality regulations and reduce CO2 emissions, enhancing environmental sustainability. BOARD REPORT 119"
"All in-scope investee companies demonstrated a focus on resource inflows and the efficient use of resources, highlighting their commitment to minimising the environmental impact of their operations and waste. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: Ferrari’s Environmental Practice promotes the reuse of waste materials in the production process according to a circular economy approach. It aims to reduce waste quantity and optimise the amount of materials sent to recovery plants. Ferrari has embraced circular economy principles by designing products with durability, repairability, and recyclability in mind. The minimum recyclability of vehicles sold is 85%, calculated in accordance with the standard ISO 22628: 2002. • Stellantis: Stellantis has integrated the principles of the circular economy into its business model, aiming to extend product lifespan and decrease natural resources usage. The company focuses on eco- design to reduce material consumption, promoting the use of green materials and responsibly managing the end-of-life products, vehicles and EV batteries, while seeking to reduce the usage of hazardous substances. Stellantis has developed a 4R strategy (Remanufacturing, Repair, Reuse, Recycle) and collaborates with suppliers and recycling operators to optimise resource use and improve vehicle recyclability. • Philips: Across its strategy for circularity, Philips has set targets to deliver the commitments to generate 25% of revenue from products, services and solutions contributing to circularity; design all new products introductions in line with EcoDesign requirements; embed circular practices at the company's sites and put zero waste to landfill; and offer responsible take-back on all professional equipment by 2025. 3. Social information 3.1 Exor employees Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair, and it is the duty of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them: AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Exor has a lean organisational structure at holding company level, employing 23 people at 31 December 2024. 120 BOARD REPORT"
"There is significant sustainability and business-conduct knowledge across Exor's Board of Directors and employees. This is further supported by accessing the knowledge present in the sustainability teams at the investee companies as well as Exor's network of expert advisors and consultants. Access to this knowledge helps Exor better identify, analyse and manage sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. More information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report, reported on page 66 and following pages. Sustainability Information Flows The Board of Directors, supported by the ESG Committee, oversees progress on Exor’s three sustainability passions of emissions reduction, education and diversity & inclusion, and also addresses the material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. The Board of Directors receives updates at least annually both from the ESG Committee and Exor's Leadership Team on topics such as material impacts, risks, opportunities, due diligence implementation, and the outcomes and effectiveness of policies, actions, metrics, and adopted targets. These bodies consider impacts, risks, and opportunities when overseeing the strategy, making decisions on major transactions, and managing risks, while also considering trade-offs associated with those impacts, risks and opportunities. Over the course of the year, the ESG Committee receives various updates from the Exor team on sustainability- related items and provides constructive feedback. These updates include Exor's progress and the evolution of its sustainability strategy, an annual update on the sustainability actions, targets, and performance of investee companies with a value of greater than 1% of Exor's Gross Asset Value, presentations from partners related to Exor's initiatives e.g. Fondazione Agnelli on Matabì (Exor's flagship education initiative), sustainability-linked compensation items and Exor's sustainability-related reporting. For the first year of ESRS reporting, the Board of Directors, the ESG Committee and the Audit Committee have all been involved in the process and have reviewed and approved the list of material impacts, risks and opportunities that resulted from the Double Materiality Assessment (described later in this section). Members of both the Audit and ESG Committees review the material included in Exor's sustainability reporting with the Audit Committee providing a recommendation to the Board of Directors for approval of the Sustainability Statement and, also in 2024, approval of Exor's first double materiality analysis. The Board of Directors of Exor approves the consolidated financial statements, which include the Company's sustainability reporting and company financial statements. Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes The remuneration of Executive Directors and management is subject to Exor's achievements, which include those related to sustainability, and is periodically reviewed by the Compensation Committee which assesses the adequacy of the performance measures used to support sustainable long-term value creation. The objective of Exor's Remuneration Policy, approved and adopted by the general meeting of shareholders held on 28 May 2024, is to provide a compensation structure that allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the most highly qualified executives to promote the growth and sustainable success of the Company and its business and that creates long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders in a manner consistent with the Company’s core business and leadership values. For these objectives to be achieved, the Remuneration Policy is determined considering (i) best practices in compensation policy design (in accordance, inter alia, with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code); and (ii) the need for sustainable compensation and aligned with the medium-to-long-term interests of all stakeholders. Executive remuneration may consist of the following primary components: i) base salary; ii) short-term incentive; iii) long-term incentive; and iv) retirement and other benefits. Each year Executive Directors may be awarded short-term and long-term incentives, depending on the performance during the relevant timeframe, including in relation to non-financial metrics such as sustainability measures. Sustainability measures are usually considered through the use of benchmarks, monitoring of trends via input from external consultants as well as discussions between Exor's Leadership Team and the Compensation and ESG Committees before then with the Board of Directors. These metrics are defined at the beginning of the year and are rooted in the strategic plan of the Company. 92 BOARD REPORT"
"The Compensation Committee is responsible for submitting a clear and understandable proposal to the Board concerning the Executive Directors remuneration policy. The Board determines the compensation for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company in accordance with this Policy. The Compensation Committee may invite members of the Board, other competent functions (for example, legal or finance) or other relevant employees to their meetings. To avoid any conflicts of interest, the Compensation Committee meetings usually include a so-called ‘closed’ session, during which only members of the Compensation Committee are present and the other meeting attendees, including Executive Directors, are requested to leave. In this way, Executive Directors, other Board members and other meeting attendees are not involved in any decisions and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration to avoid any conflicts of interest. At least once every four years, the Committee will review the adequacy, overall coherence and effective application of the Policy and make recommendations to the Board in respect of any proposed changes, after which it will be submitted for approval to the general meeting of shareholders. For the 2024 long-term incentive plan, two sustainability components were integrated with each having a weighting of 10% (therefore representing 20% of the total long-term incentive component). One component was linked to Exor's flagship education initiative Matabì, which is carried out in collaboration with Fondazione Agnelli (please refer to page 126-128 in section 3. Social information for more information on the project) and the other was linked to the quality of the CSRD reporting. Remuneration related to sustainability metrics and additional information on the incentive scheme can be found in the Remuneration Report, reported on page 151 (ESG Targets reported at page 156) and the Remuneration Policy available on the corporate regulations page of Exor's website. Statement on due diligence The following table shows how and where the application of the main aspects and steps of the due diligence process are reflected in this Sustainability Statement: BOARD REPORT 93"
"Core elements of due diligence Paragraphs in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Sustainability Information Flows 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Interests and views of stakeholders 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology Identifying and assessing adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Taking actions to address those adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation - General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.2 Diversity and inclusion 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Although Exor considers sustainability aspects as part of the due diligence process when evaluating new investments, there is not a formalised sustainability due diligence process. Exor is reflecting on how best to implement sustainability screening in a more structured way when assessing new investment opportunities. Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting To assess the risk affecting the Company’s activities and the effectiveness of the internal control system, Exor has in place an internal control and risk management system based on the model provided by the COSO Framework (""Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Report – Enterprise Risk Management model"") and the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. There are no specific internal controls in relation to the disclosures within the Sustainability Statement due also to the limited information disclosed. Exor will evaluate for future Sustainability Statements whether specific controls are required. Exor has no risk assessment specifically dedicated to sustainability reporting and instead considers the potential associated risks under its risk of ""non/late compliance with applicable legislation/regulations or changes, Business Ethics and Sustainability requirements"". To support its compliance with the applicable sustainability regulatory requirements, Exor involves an external consultant, who helps to provide additional expertise and objectivity where necessary. In relation to the sustainability reporting process, Exor prepares all its own operations reporting internally. The Chief Financial Officer of Exor oversees and is responsible for the preparation of this data. Value chain reporting is prepared with the support of investee companies who complete a reporting package as requested by Exor. The management of the investee companies is responsible for the preparation and delivery of their respective data. 94 BOARD REPORT"
"As part of its sustainability reporting process, Exor ensures to involve an outsourced Internal Audit to provide constructive support as well as Exor's external (statutory) auditors to maintain alignment and transparency throughout. Exor aims to continuously improve its processes regarding the collection and internal control of sustainability data both for its own operations as well as the value chain. Any issues or improvements to this process are managed by Exor and then reported, where necessary, to the Audit and ESG Committees as operational updates. More information can be found in the Risk Management and Key risks and key trends section of the Annual Report, reported on page 59-65. 1.3. Strategy and business model Exor is headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, listed on Euronext Amsterdam and included in the AEX Index. Its Gross Asset Value (GAV) and Net Asset Value (NAV) amounted to approximately €42 billion and €38 billion at 31 December 2024, respectively, and it is one of Europe’s largest investment holding companies. Most of Exor's investments are in leading global companies, both public and private, in which it is often the largest shareholder and the investments are held for capital appreciation, often for long-term periods in accordance with Exor's portfolio review process. With the introduction of the CSRD, it is also relevant to describe Exor's upstream and downstream activities. Upstream activities include procurement and investor relations, including a limited number of suppliers of goods and services (e.g. office equipment, consultancy companies, etc). Downstream activities refer to activities that take place at the investee companies' level. For reporting purposes, given Exor's lean structure of 23 employees at 31 December 2024 (more details are provided in section 3.1 Exor employees) and the particular nature of the value chain, the upstream value chain was deemed as less relevant compared to the downstream value chain in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities. In particular, due to the size of Exor, the upstream value chain mainly relates to the provision of goods and services to the Company, which, given its size, are very limited. The downstream value chain is significant in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities due to the size and nature of investments and Exor's activity as an investor. Upstream Own Operations Downstream Goods and services suppliers Exor offices Investee companies Investors Workforce Exor's purpose and values Exor believes that great companies are not just those that perform to the highest standards but also those that seek out renewal and change and are distinctive in what they do. HOW WE BUILD: WHAT MAKES A COMPANY GREAT: • Leaders who perform and embody our values • Governance aligned with ownership and leadership • Progressing on path to greatness BUILD GREAT COMPANIES • Distinctive in what it does • Seek renewal and change • Acts in a responsible way • Performs to the highest standards BOARD REPORT 95"
"Exor's ownership helps create environments where companies can thrive and helps empower leaders to build great companies. Exor does this by having an active role in the governance of the companies it owns and by working with fellow directors to create strong boards that can act as “critical friends” to those companies, challenging them to improve performance across all the dimensions of being a great company and supporting them when they face obstacles. Through this approach, Exor encourages its companies to set and achieve their sustainability goals while always being conscious of their autonomy. Some of the ways in which Exor supports its companies are outlined below. 1 CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE COMPANIES CAN THRIVE 2 EMPOWERING LEADERS TO BUILD GREAT COMPANIES 3 USING GOVERNANCE TO STEER OUR COMPANIES ✓Long-term committed capital ✓Use Exor's network to find new leaders ✓Build effective boards ✓Strong network ✓Act as a “critical-friend” to leaders in its companies ✓Support companies in their management successions ✓Support and challenge companies’ plans ✓Encourage the creation of strong and positive cultures ✓Play an active role in the boards of all its companies ✓Promote diversity and inclusiveness Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. It therefore recruits strong talent into its own organisation, offers equal opportunities, and creates a diverse and inclusive workforce. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair and it is the job of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them. AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Sustainability at Exor Exor publicly communicated its sustainability strategy in November 2021 at the Exor Investor Day, prior to which the strategy was presented to the ESG Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. In devising the strategy, Exor had carried out a detailed analysis to identify what topics were material for the Company as well as common across its investee companies, benchmarked the approach of other European holding peers, engaged with Exor employees from various functions, spoke to global sustainability leaders (both individuals & companies) and assessed international regulatory frameworks. As a result of this analysis, Exor established a set of key KPIs and targets it wanted to put in place for itself as well as an approach on how it would support its investee companies as a ""critical friend"" on their path to greatness. Exor believes that, to act in a responsible way, great companies should: • Align with best practices and reporting frameworks; • Identify priorities, set targets, measure and report progress; • Continue to raise the bar; • Aspire to industry sustainability leadership. 96 BOARD REPORT"
"• Philips: Philips has defined a Climate Action Program, which aims to reduce emissions across the entire value chain. The company has set emission reduction targets approved by the SBTi, aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Key actions include energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels, using renewable energy, and collaborating with suppliers and customers to amplify the impact and reduce the footprint across the value chain. Exor's Carbon Footprint Exor believes that, in order to pursue its passion of emissions reduction, the starting point is to calculate and monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at its own operations level but in particular in relation to its investee companies. Exor has measured and disclosed all its GHG footprints from 2019, well before the Company was subject to the requirements of the CSRD, demonstrating its long-term vision and strong commitment to sustainability. Even though climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations, in addition to Scope 3 data, it has also disclosed information related to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in continuity with historical reporting. Exor has calculated its GHG inventory in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative classifies GHG emissions into three “Scopes”: • Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by Exor; • Scope 2 covers indirect emissions that Exor causes from the generation of purchased electricity; • Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that originate from the value chain of the reporting company. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated according to the activity-based method which allows the calculation of GHG emissions associated with the company-specific activities, processes and/or products on the basis of detailed consumption data such as energy bills and information provided by buildings’ owners (with IEA and DEFRA emission factors), while a hybrid approach was adopted for Scope 3 emissions, incorporating both activity-based (with DEFRA emission factors) and spend-based, (adapting EPA emission factors) or average- based methods, depending on the Scope 3 Category. The table shows Exor's GHG emissions, broken down into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 116 BOARD REPORT"
"All units are (tCO2eq) 2024 Milestones and target years 2025 2030 2050 △ (base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 n.a n.a n.a n.a Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) —% n.a n.a n.a n.a Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 25 n.a n.a n.a n.a Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 n.a n.a n.a n.a Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42,344,330 n.a n.a n.a n.a 1 Purchased goods and services 686 n.a n.a n.a n.a 2 Capital goods N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 3 Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 n.a n.a n.a n.a 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 5 n.a n.a n.a n.a 5 Waste generated in operations 1 n.a n.a n.a n.a 6 Business travel 176 n.a n.a n.a n.a 7 Employee commuting 8 n.a n.a n.a n.a 8 Upstream leased assets 4 n.a n.a n.a n.a 9 Downstream transportation N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 10 Processing of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 11 Use of sold products 0 n.a n.a n.a n.a 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 13 Downstream leased assets N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 14 Franchises N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 15 Investments 42,343,442 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 42,344,366 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions (market- based) 42,344,351 n.a n.a n.a n.a Given the nature and scale of its business activities, Scope 3 emissions represent the most significant share of Exor’s overall carbon footprint. In line with the GHG Protocol guidelines, Exor has conducted a detailed assessment of its operations and investment portfolio to determine the materiality of each Scope 3 category. As a result, Categories 9 (“Downstream transportation and distribution”), 10 (“Processing of sold products”), 12 (“End-of-life treatment of sold products”), 13 (“Downstream leased assets”), and 14 (“Franchises”) have been excluded from the footprint calculation, as they are not deemed relevant to Exor’s business model. At the same time, Category 4 (“Upstream transportation and distribution”) has been incorporated into the Scope 3 reporting perimeter as of 2023 to enhance the completeness of the emissions inventory. Beyond its direct operations — where Scope 3 emissions primarily stem from purchased goods and services, capital goods, and business travel — Exor’s investment portfolio constitutes the predominant driver of its emissions profile. The nature of Exor’s business model means that Category 15 (“Investments”) accounts for the vast majority of its carbon footprint. Accordingly, the assessment of financed emissions follows the PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, ensuring methodological robustness, transparency, and consistency with international best practices. BOARD REPORT 117"
"The calculation of financed emissions relies on a structured approach based on PCAF’s prescribed methodologies. For listed equity investments, emissions are allocated using Exor’s proportional share of enterprise value including cash (EVIC), ensuring an accurate representation of its financial exposure to emissions-intensive activities. Regarding Scope 3 Category 15, in line with PCAF’s data quality scoring system, Exor has also continued to refine the accuracy of its financed emissions calculations by incorporating a more granular assessment of primary data sources, where available, and progressively reducing reliance on estimated emission factors for investee companies. For the calculation of the 2024 carbon footprint, only 1 in-scope investee company provided a PCAF data quality score lower than 1 (i.e. verified emissions), as it is yet to publish its annual sustainability reporting. Exor will continue to support its investee companies to accurately calculate their GHG footprint as a means to improve the accuracy of its own footprint. The refinement of Exor’s methodology has been a key focus throughout 2024, with a concerted effort to improve the quality of underlying data inputs and enhance the representativeness of reported emissions. As part of this continuous improvement process, Exor has updated the emission factors applied to selected Scope 3 categories, further strengthening the reliability of its carbon footprint assessment. The integration of refined metrics supports a more robust evaluation of emissions across its investment portfolio and aligns with the company’s broader approach to sustainability governance. The ongoing refinement of the methodology ensures that reported emissions more accurately reflect the underlying carbon intensity of investee companies, reinforcing the credibility of the overall emissions inventory. 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain Material sub-topics Material sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities E2 Pollution Pollution of air Risk in the value chain: environmental and health issues caused by the air pollution related to operations at investee-company level, especially related to industrial processes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Substances of concern Risk in the value chain: the emergence of laws regarding the use of harmful substances in consumer products of manufacturing/industrial investee companies may lead to increased regulatory oversight and financial losses due to reputational harm. (Short-Medium-Long Term) E5 Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use Resource outflows related to products and services Positive actual impact in the value chain: sourcing through the use of bio- sourced materials, recycled materials and materials of natural origin reducing resource depletion, such as use of water, deforestation and impact on local wildlife by embedding circular economy practices (e.g. marketing reconditioned products, reducing waste and resource extraction, also through repair, remanufacturing, reuse, recycling, revalorisation) (Medium-Long- Term) Waste Negative actual impact in the value chain: generation of waste linked to operational processes at investee companies, including hazardous waste and generation of plastics, packaging, electronic waste, deriving from their own operations and upstream activities. (Short-Medium Term) 118 BOARD REPORT"
"Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Topics ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Pollution Pollution of air 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% Substances of concern 2 73% 2 73% 2 73% 0 —% Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use 5 100% 4 83% 5 100% 3 27% Resource outflows related to products and services 3 86% 2 68% 2 30% 1 12% Waste 3 71% 3 71% 3 71% 2 14% % of adjusted GAV: total contribution of # of investee companies (from Ferrari, Stellantis, Philips, CNH and Iveco Group) divided by the total GAV contribution of those 5 companies The topic of pollution in the investee companies mainly relates to pollution of air and substances of concern, due to the activities carried out in their respective production lines. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • CNH: CNH is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its industrial processes by monitoring and managing air pollutant emissions. Alongside the GHG emissions, the company carefully monitors emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from its machinery and equipment, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions from its manufacturing processes, emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and inorganic particulate matter emitted by burning fossil fuels. • Iveco Group: Iveco Group has implemented several measures to reduce air pollution, focusing on reducing VOC emissions during painting processes and closely monitoring NOx, SOx, and particulate matter emissions. The company continuously optimises its manufacturing processes with advanced technologies, developing engines compatible with renewable fuels such as biomethane and hydrogen. Iveco Group adopts a precautionary approach in product design, manufacturing, logistics, and product end-of-life management. Additionally, Iveco Group applies technological solutions to ensure compliance with international air quality regulations and reduce CO2 emissions, enhancing environmental sustainability. BOARD REPORT 119"
"All in-scope investee companies demonstrated a focus on resource inflows and the efficient use of resources, highlighting their commitment to minimising the environmental impact of their operations and waste. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: Ferrari’s Environmental Practice promotes the reuse of waste materials in the production process according to a circular economy approach. It aims to reduce waste quantity and optimise the amount of materials sent to recovery plants. Ferrari has embraced circular economy principles by designing products with durability, repairability, and recyclability in mind. The minimum recyclability of vehicles sold is 85%, calculated in accordance with the standard ISO 22628: 2002. • Stellantis: Stellantis has integrated the principles of the circular economy into its business model, aiming to extend product lifespan and decrease natural resources usage. The company focuses on eco- design to reduce material consumption, promoting the use of green materials and responsibly managing the end-of-life products, vehicles and EV batteries, while seeking to reduce the usage of hazardous substances. Stellantis has developed a 4R strategy (Remanufacturing, Repair, Reuse, Recycle) and collaborates with suppliers and recycling operators to optimise resource use and improve vehicle recyclability. • Philips: Across its strategy for circularity, Philips has set targets to deliver the commitments to generate 25% of revenue from products, services and solutions contributing to circularity; design all new products introductions in line with EcoDesign requirements; embed circular practices at the company's sites and put zero waste to landfill; and offer responsible take-back on all professional equipment by 2025. 3. Social information 3.1 Exor employees Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair, and it is the duty of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them: AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Exor has a lean organisational structure at holding company level, employing 23 people at 31 December 2024. 120 BOARD REPORT"
"There is significant sustainability and business-conduct knowledge across Exor's Board of Directors and employees. This is further supported by accessing the knowledge present in the sustainability teams at the investee companies as well as Exor's network of expert advisors and consultants. Access to this knowledge helps Exor better identify, analyse and manage sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. More information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report, reported on page 66 and following pages. Sustainability Information Flows The Board of Directors, supported by the ESG Committee, oversees progress on Exor’s three sustainability passions of emissions reduction, education and diversity & inclusion, and also addresses the material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. The Board of Directors receives updates at least annually both from the ESG Committee and Exor's Leadership Team on topics such as material impacts, risks, opportunities, due diligence implementation, and the outcomes and effectiveness of policies, actions, metrics, and adopted targets. These bodies consider impacts, risks, and opportunities when overseeing the strategy, making decisions on major transactions, and managing risks, while also considering trade-offs associated with those impacts, risks and opportunities. Over the course of the year, the ESG Committee receives various updates from the Exor team on sustainability- related items and provides constructive feedback. These updates include Exor's progress and the evolution of its sustainability strategy, an annual update on the sustainability actions, targets, and performance of investee companies with a value of greater than 1% of Exor's Gross Asset Value, presentations from partners related to Exor's initiatives e.g. Fondazione Agnelli on Matabì (Exor's flagship education initiative), sustainability-linked compensation items and Exor's sustainability-related reporting. For the first year of ESRS reporting, the Board of Directors, the ESG Committee and the Audit Committee have all been involved in the process and have reviewed and approved the list of material impacts, risks and opportunities that resulted from the Double Materiality Assessment (described later in this section). Members of both the Audit and ESG Committees review the material included in Exor's sustainability reporting with the Audit Committee providing a recommendation to the Board of Directors for approval of the Sustainability Statement and, also in 2024, approval of Exor's first double materiality analysis. The Board of Directors of Exor approves the consolidated financial statements, which include the Company's sustainability reporting and company financial statements. Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes The remuneration of Executive Directors and management is subject to Exor's achievements, which include those related to sustainability, and is periodically reviewed by the Compensation Committee which assesses the adequacy of the performance measures used to support sustainable long-term value creation. The objective of Exor's Remuneration Policy, approved and adopted by the general meeting of shareholders held on 28 May 2024, is to provide a compensation structure that allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the most highly qualified executives to promote the growth and sustainable success of the Company and its business and that creates long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders in a manner consistent with the Company’s core business and leadership values. For these objectives to be achieved, the Remuneration Policy is determined considering (i) best practices in compensation policy design (in accordance, inter alia, with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code); and (ii) the need for sustainable compensation and aligned with the medium-to-long-term interests of all stakeholders. Executive remuneration may consist of the following primary components: i) base salary; ii) short-term incentive; iii) long-term incentive; and iv) retirement and other benefits. Each year Executive Directors may be awarded short-term and long-term incentives, depending on the performance during the relevant timeframe, including in relation to non-financial metrics such as sustainability measures. Sustainability measures are usually considered through the use of benchmarks, monitoring of trends via input from external consultants as well as discussions between Exor's Leadership Team and the Compensation and ESG Committees before then with the Board of Directors. These metrics are defined at the beginning of the year and are rooted in the strategic plan of the Company. 92 BOARD REPORT"
"The Compensation Committee is responsible for submitting a clear and understandable proposal to the Board concerning the Executive Directors remuneration policy. The Board determines the compensation for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company in accordance with this Policy. The Compensation Committee may invite members of the Board, other competent functions (for example, legal or finance) or other relevant employees to their meetings. To avoid any conflicts of interest, the Compensation Committee meetings usually include a so-called ‘closed’ session, during which only members of the Compensation Committee are present and the other meeting attendees, including Executive Directors, are requested to leave. In this way, Executive Directors, other Board members and other meeting attendees are not involved in any decisions and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration to avoid any conflicts of interest. At least once every four years, the Committee will review the adequacy, overall coherence and effective application of the Policy and make recommendations to the Board in respect of any proposed changes, after which it will be submitted for approval to the general meeting of shareholders. For the 2024 long-term incentive plan, two sustainability components were integrated with each having a weighting of 10% (therefore representing 20% of the total long-term incentive component). One component was linked to Exor's flagship education initiative Matabì, which is carried out in collaboration with Fondazione Agnelli (please refer to page 126-128 in section 3. Social information for more information on the project) and the other was linked to the quality of the CSRD reporting. Remuneration related to sustainability metrics and additional information on the incentive scheme can be found in the Remuneration Report, reported on page 151 (ESG Targets reported at page 156) and the Remuneration Policy available on the corporate regulations page of Exor's website. Statement on due diligence The following table shows how and where the application of the main aspects and steps of the due diligence process are reflected in this Sustainability Statement: BOARD REPORT 93"
"Core elements of due diligence Paragraphs in the Sustainability Statement Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy and business model 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Sustainability Information Flows 1. General information - 1.2 Governance - Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Interests and views of stakeholders 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology Identifying and assessing adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The process and methodology 1. General information - 1.4 The Double Materiality Assessment - The DMA results Taking actions to address those adverse impacts 1. General information - 1.1 Basis of preparation - General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating 1. General information - 1.3 Strategy and business model - Sustainability in Exor 2. Environmental information - 2.2 Emission reduction and climate change 2. Environmental information - 2.3 Environmental impacts in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.1 Exor employees 3. Social information - 3.2 Diversity and inclusion 3. Social information - 3.3 Working conditions in the value chain 3. Social information - 3.4 End users in the value chain 4. Governance information - 4.1.2 Governance in the value chain Although Exor considers sustainability aspects as part of the due diligence process when evaluating new investments, there is not a formalised sustainability due diligence process. Exor is reflecting on how best to implement sustainability screening in a more structured way when assessing new investment opportunities. Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting To assess the risk affecting the Company’s activities and the effectiveness of the internal control system, Exor has in place an internal control and risk management system based on the model provided by the COSO Framework (""Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Report – Enterprise Risk Management model"") and the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. There are no specific internal controls in relation to the disclosures within the Sustainability Statement due also to the limited information disclosed. Exor will evaluate for future Sustainability Statements whether specific controls are required. Exor has no risk assessment specifically dedicated to sustainability reporting and instead considers the potential associated risks under its risk of ""non/late compliance with applicable legislation/regulations or changes, Business Ethics and Sustainability requirements"". To support its compliance with the applicable sustainability regulatory requirements, Exor involves an external consultant, who helps to provide additional expertise and objectivity where necessary. In relation to the sustainability reporting process, Exor prepares all its own operations reporting internally. The Chief Financial Officer of Exor oversees and is responsible for the preparation of this data. Value chain reporting is prepared with the support of investee companies who complete a reporting package as requested by Exor. The management of the investee companies is responsible for the preparation and delivery of their respective data. 94 BOARD REPORT"
"As part of its sustainability reporting process, Exor ensures to involve an outsourced Internal Audit to provide constructive support as well as Exor's external (statutory) auditors to maintain alignment and transparency throughout. Exor aims to continuously improve its processes regarding the collection and internal control of sustainability data both for its own operations as well as the value chain. Any issues or improvements to this process are managed by Exor and then reported, where necessary, to the Audit and ESG Committees as operational updates. More information can be found in the Risk Management and Key risks and key trends section of the Annual Report, reported on page 59-65. 1.3. Strategy and business model Exor is headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, listed on Euronext Amsterdam and included in the AEX Index. Its Gross Asset Value (GAV) and Net Asset Value (NAV) amounted to approximately €42 billion and €38 billion at 31 December 2024, respectively, and it is one of Europe’s largest investment holding companies. Most of Exor's investments are in leading global companies, both public and private, in which it is often the largest shareholder and the investments are held for capital appreciation, often for long-term periods in accordance with Exor's portfolio review process. With the introduction of the CSRD, it is also relevant to describe Exor's upstream and downstream activities. Upstream activities include procurement and investor relations, including a limited number of suppliers of goods and services (e.g. office equipment, consultancy companies, etc). Downstream activities refer to activities that take place at the investee companies' level. For reporting purposes, given Exor's lean structure of 23 employees at 31 December 2024 (more details are provided in section 3.1 Exor employees) and the particular nature of the value chain, the upstream value chain was deemed as less relevant compared to the downstream value chain in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities. In particular, due to the size of Exor, the upstream value chain mainly relates to the provision of goods and services to the Company, which, given its size, are very limited. The downstream value chain is significant in terms of impacts, risks and opportunities due to the size and nature of investments and Exor's activity as an investor. Upstream Own Operations Downstream Goods and services suppliers Exor offices Investee companies Investors Workforce Exor's purpose and values Exor believes that great companies are not just those that perform to the highest standards but also those that seek out renewal and change and are distinctive in what they do. HOW WE BUILD: WHAT MAKES A COMPANY GREAT: • Leaders who perform and embody our values • Governance aligned with ownership and leadership • Progressing on path to greatness BUILD GREAT COMPANIES • Distinctive in what it does • Seek renewal and change • Acts in a responsible way • Performs to the highest standards BOARD REPORT 95"
"Exor's ownership helps create environments where companies can thrive and helps empower leaders to build great companies. Exor does this by having an active role in the governance of the companies it owns and by working with fellow directors to create strong boards that can act as “critical friends” to those companies, challenging them to improve performance across all the dimensions of being a great company and supporting them when they face obstacles. Through this approach, Exor encourages its companies to set and achieve their sustainability goals while always being conscious of their autonomy. Some of the ways in which Exor supports its companies are outlined below. 1 CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE COMPANIES CAN THRIVE 2 EMPOWERING LEADERS TO BUILD GREAT COMPANIES 3 USING GOVERNANCE TO STEER OUR COMPANIES ✓Long-term committed capital ✓Use Exor's network to find new leaders ✓Build effective boards ✓Strong network ✓Act as a “critical-friend” to leaders in its companies ✓Support companies in their management successions ✓Support and challenge companies’ plans ✓Encourage the creation of strong and positive cultures ✓Play an active role in the boards of all its companies ✓Promote diversity and inclusiveness Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. It therefore recruits strong talent into its own organisation, offers equal opportunities, and creates a diverse and inclusive workforce. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair and it is the job of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them. AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Sustainability at Exor Exor publicly communicated its sustainability strategy in November 2021 at the Exor Investor Day, prior to which the strategy was presented to the ESG Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. In devising the strategy, Exor had carried out a detailed analysis to identify what topics were material for the Company as well as common across its investee companies, benchmarked the approach of other European holding peers, engaged with Exor employees from various functions, spoke to global sustainability leaders (both individuals & companies) and assessed international regulatory frameworks. As a result of this analysis, Exor established a set of key KPIs and targets it wanted to put in place for itself as well as an approach on how it would support its investee companies as a ""critical friend"" on their path to greatness. Exor believes that, to act in a responsible way, great companies should: • Align with best practices and reporting frameworks; • Identify priorities, set targets, measure and report progress; • Continue to raise the bar; • Aspire to industry sustainability leadership. 96 BOARD REPORT"
"• Philips: Philips has defined a Climate Action Program, which aims to reduce emissions across the entire value chain. The company has set emission reduction targets approved by the SBTi, aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C. Key actions include energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels, using renewable energy, and collaborating with suppliers and customers to amplify the impact and reduce the footprint across the value chain. Exor's Carbon Footprint Exor believes that, in order to pursue its passion of emissions reduction, the starting point is to calculate and monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at its own operations level but in particular in relation to its investee companies. Exor has measured and disclosed all its GHG footprints from 2019, well before the Company was subject to the requirements of the CSRD, demonstrating its long-term vision and strong commitment to sustainability. Even though climate change mitigation is not material for Exor's own operations, in addition to Scope 3 data, it has also disclosed information related to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in continuity with historical reporting. Exor has calculated its GHG inventory in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative classifies GHG emissions into three “Scopes”: • Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by Exor; • Scope 2 covers indirect emissions that Exor causes from the generation of purchased electricity; • Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that originate from the value chain of the reporting company. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been calculated according to the activity-based method which allows the calculation of GHG emissions associated with the company-specific activities, processes and/or products on the basis of detailed consumption data such as energy bills and information provided by buildings’ owners (with IEA and DEFRA emission factors), while a hybrid approach was adopted for Scope 3 emissions, incorporating both activity-based (with DEFRA emission factors) and spend-based, (adapting EPA emission factors) or average- based methods, depending on the Scope 3 Category. The table shows Exor's GHG emissions, broken down into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 116 BOARD REPORT"
"All units are (tCO2eq) 2024 Milestones and target years 2025 2030 2050 △ (base year) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 n.a n.a n.a n.a Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) —% n.a n.a n.a n.a Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 25 n.a n.a n.a n.a Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 9 n.a n.a n.a n.a Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42,344,330 n.a n.a n.a n.a 1 Purchased goods and services 686 n.a n.a n.a n.a 2 Capital goods N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 3 Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 n.a n.a n.a n.a 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 5 n.a n.a n.a n.a 5 Waste generated in operations 1 n.a n.a n.a n.a 6 Business travel 176 n.a n.a n.a n.a 7 Employee commuting 8 n.a n.a n.a n.a 8 Upstream leased assets 4 n.a n.a n.a n.a 9 Downstream transportation N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 10 Processing of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 11 Use of sold products 0 n.a n.a n.a n.a 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 13 Downstream leased assets N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 14 Franchises N/A n.a n.a n.a n.a 15 Investments 42,343,442 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 42,344,366 n.a n.a n.a n.a Total GHG emissions (market- based) 42,344,351 n.a n.a n.a n.a Given the nature and scale of its business activities, Scope 3 emissions represent the most significant share of Exor’s overall carbon footprint. In line with the GHG Protocol guidelines, Exor has conducted a detailed assessment of its operations and investment portfolio to determine the materiality of each Scope 3 category. As a result, Categories 9 (“Downstream transportation and distribution”), 10 (“Processing of sold products”), 12 (“End-of-life treatment of sold products”), 13 (“Downstream leased assets”), and 14 (“Franchises”) have been excluded from the footprint calculation, as they are not deemed relevant to Exor’s business model. At the same time, Category 4 (“Upstream transportation and distribution”) has been incorporated into the Scope 3 reporting perimeter as of 2023 to enhance the completeness of the emissions inventory. Beyond its direct operations — where Scope 3 emissions primarily stem from purchased goods and services, capital goods, and business travel — Exor’s investment portfolio constitutes the predominant driver of its emissions profile. The nature of Exor’s business model means that Category 15 (“Investments”) accounts for the vast majority of its carbon footprint. Accordingly, the assessment of financed emissions follows the PCAF (Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, ensuring methodological robustness, transparency, and consistency with international best practices. BOARD REPORT 117"
"The calculation of financed emissions relies on a structured approach based on PCAF’s prescribed methodologies. For listed equity investments, emissions are allocated using Exor’s proportional share of enterprise value including cash (EVIC), ensuring an accurate representation of its financial exposure to emissions-intensive activities. Regarding Scope 3 Category 15, in line with PCAF’s data quality scoring system, Exor has also continued to refine the accuracy of its financed emissions calculations by incorporating a more granular assessment of primary data sources, where available, and progressively reducing reliance on estimated emission factors for investee companies. For the calculation of the 2024 carbon footprint, only 1 in-scope investee company provided a PCAF data quality score lower than 1 (i.e. verified emissions), as it is yet to publish its annual sustainability reporting. Exor will continue to support its investee companies to accurately calculate their GHG footprint as a means to improve the accuracy of its own footprint. The refinement of Exor’s methodology has been a key focus throughout 2024, with a concerted effort to improve the quality of underlying data inputs and enhance the representativeness of reported emissions. As part of this continuous improvement process, Exor has updated the emission factors applied to selected Scope 3 categories, further strengthening the reliability of its carbon footprint assessment. The integration of refined metrics supports a more robust evaluation of emissions across its investment portfolio and aligns with the company’s broader approach to sustainability governance. The ongoing refinement of the methodology ensures that reported emissions more accurately reflect the underlying carbon intensity of investee companies, reinforcing the credibility of the overall emissions inventory. 2.3 Environmental impacts across the value chain Material sub-topics Material sub-topics Impacts, risks and opportunities E2 Pollution Pollution of air Risk in the value chain: environmental and health issues caused by the air pollution related to operations at investee-company level, especially related to industrial processes. (Short-Medium-Long Term) Substances of concern Risk in the value chain: the emergence of laws regarding the use of harmful substances in consumer products of manufacturing/industrial investee companies may lead to increased regulatory oversight and financial losses due to reputational harm. (Short-Medium-Long Term) E5 Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use Resource outflows related to products and services Positive actual impact in the value chain: sourcing through the use of bio- sourced materials, recycled materials and materials of natural origin reducing resource depletion, such as use of water, deforestation and impact on local wildlife by embedding circular economy practices (e.g. marketing reconditioned products, reducing waste and resource extraction, also through repair, remanufacturing, reuse, recycling, revalorisation) (Medium-Long- Term) Waste Negative actual impact in the value chain: generation of waste linked to operational processes at investee companies, including hazardous waste and generation of plastics, packaging, electronic waste, deriving from their own operations and upstream activities. (Short-Medium Term) 118 BOARD REPORT"
"Investee companies in scope Adopted policies Adopted actions Adopted targets ESRS Topics ESRS Sub- topics # of investee companies in scope % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV # of investee companies % of adjusted GAV Pollution Pollution of air 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% 2 19% Substances of concern 2 73% 2 73% 2 73% 0 —% Circular Economy Resource inflows, including resource use 5 100% 4 83% 5 100% 3 27% Resource outflows related to products and services 3 86% 2 68% 2 30% 1 12% Waste 3 71% 3 71% 3 71% 2 14% % of adjusted GAV: total contribution of # of investee companies (from Ferrari, Stellantis, Philips, CNH and Iveco Group) divided by the total GAV contribution of those 5 companies The topic of pollution in the investee companies mainly relates to pollution of air and substances of concern, due to the activities carried out in their respective production lines. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • CNH: CNH is committed to reducing the environmental impact of its industrial processes by monitoring and managing air pollutant emissions. Alongside the GHG emissions, the company carefully monitors emissions of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from its machinery and equipment, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions from its manufacturing processes, emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and inorganic particulate matter emitted by burning fossil fuels. • Iveco Group: Iveco Group has implemented several measures to reduce air pollution, focusing on reducing VOC emissions during painting processes and closely monitoring NOx, SOx, and particulate matter emissions. The company continuously optimises its manufacturing processes with advanced technologies, developing engines compatible with renewable fuels such as biomethane and hydrogen. Iveco Group adopts a precautionary approach in product design, manufacturing, logistics, and product end-of-life management. Additionally, Iveco Group applies technological solutions to ensure compliance with international air quality regulations and reduce CO2 emissions, enhancing environmental sustainability. BOARD REPORT 119"
"All in-scope investee companies demonstrated a focus on resource inflows and the efficient use of resources, highlighting their commitment to minimising the environmental impact of their operations and waste. Examples of initiatives carried out by the investee companies can be found below: • Ferrari: Ferrari’s Environmental Practice promotes the reuse of waste materials in the production process according to a circular economy approach. It aims to reduce waste quantity and optimise the amount of materials sent to recovery plants. Ferrari has embraced circular economy principles by designing products with durability, repairability, and recyclability in mind. The minimum recyclability of vehicles sold is 85%, calculated in accordance with the standard ISO 22628: 2002. • Stellantis: Stellantis has integrated the principles of the circular economy into its business model, aiming to extend product lifespan and decrease natural resources usage. The company focuses on eco- design to reduce material consumption, promoting the use of green materials and responsibly managing the end-of-life products, vehicles and EV batteries, while seeking to reduce the usage of hazardous substances. Stellantis has developed a 4R strategy (Remanufacturing, Repair, Reuse, Recycle) and collaborates with suppliers and recycling operators to optimise resource use and improve vehicle recyclability. • Philips: Across its strategy for circularity, Philips has set targets to deliver the commitments to generate 25% of revenue from products, services and solutions contributing to circularity; design all new products introductions in line with EcoDesign requirements; embed circular practices at the company's sites and put zero waste to landfill; and offer responsible take-back on all professional equipment by 2025. 3. Social information 3.1 Exor employees Exor believes that great companies can only be built by great people. Exor’s values, together with its purpose of building great companies, form the foundation of its culture. These values are written in pairs. There is tension between the words in each pair, and it is the duty of Exor colleagues to find the appropriate balance between them: AMBITION & HUMILITY CURIOSITY & FOCUS We set high aspirations but remain grounded We seek new ideas while prioritising what matters COURAGE & RESPONSIBILITY PATIENCE & DRIVE We take bold actions while being mindful of their consequences We take a long-term perspective but are relentless in getting things done Exor has a lean organisational structure at holding company level, employing 23 people at 31 December 2024. 120 BOARD REPORT"
