"E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions The greenhouse gas emissions data reported below provide an understanding of Finnair’s direct and indirect impacts on climate change. Table 4 presents the relevance assessment of Finnair’s emission sources as well as the calculation methods used in the scope calculations, the assumptions used in them and the emission factors. There have been no significant changes in data sources or calculation methods compared to the previous year’s 2023 annual report. With regard to the figures reported in 2023, market- based emissions (Scope 2) related to the energy consumption of Finnair’s properties have been updated in accordance with the revised emission factor in this reporting for 2024. Table AR 54. GHG intensity per net revenue GHG intensity per net revenue Comparative 2023 2024 % N / N-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/MEUR) 1,343.5 1,425.6 106.1 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/MEUR) 1,344.2 1,424.0 105.9 Table AR 38 & 55. Connectivity of GHG and energy intensities based on net revenue with financial reporting information Comparative 2023 2024 Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors used to calculate GHG and energy intensities 2,988.5 3,048.8 Net revenue, other (MEUR) 0 0 Total net revenue (Financial statements, MEUR) 2,988.5 3,048.8 CEO Review Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements Board of Directors’ Proposal on a return of capital Auditor’s Report Finnair – Financial Information 2024 97 Business model and operating environment Financial performance in 2024 Financial position and capital expenditure Shareholder return policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Fleet Strategy implementation Changes in company management Shares and shareholders Risk management Significant risks and uncertainties Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Outlook Performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Reconciliation of performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Other performance indicators • Sustainability Report General information Environmental information EU Taxonomy E1 Climate change E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E5 Resource use and circular economy Social information Governance information Report of the Board of Directors"
"E1-7 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits Finnair operated ground operations at Helsinki- Vantaa airport have been carbon neutral (Scope 1, 2 and Scope 3 category 3) since 2023. To achieve this commitment, Finnair also has to compensate for residual emissions. The residual emissions in 2024 consisted of emissions from renewable fuel production (Scope 3, category 3 fuel production and transport) and using of fossil fuel, gasoline. Finnair also compensated 100 % of its personnel business travel by air. In 2024, WTW emissions from business travel were reduced by 15% with sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) and the remaining 85% was compensated with carbon credits. The above-mentioned emissions have been compensated by externally certified voluntary emission reduction projects (VER). The compensation as a lever is not impeding nor reducing Finnair’s own GHG reduction activities. At the moment, Finnair do not have an internal procedure to manage the risk of non-permanence of the GHG removals, including determining and monitoring leakage and reversal events. Table AR 64. Cancelled carbon credits Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Comparative 2023 2024 Total (tCO2e) 9,941 3,423 Share from removal projects (%) 37 0 Share from reduction projects (%) 63 100 VCS (Verified Carbon Standard) 100 100 Share from projects within the EU (%) 0 0 Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments (%) 0 0 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Amount until 2025 Total (tCO2e) 0 Table AR 60. GHG removals Removals Comparative 2023 2024 % N / N-1 Removals in own operations: Reforestation 0 0 0 Carbon Capture 0 0 0 Total GHG removals from own operations (tCO2e) 0 0 0 Removals in the upstream and downstream value chain: Biogenic 9,941 3,423 34.3 Technological sinks 0 0 0 Total GHG removals in the upstream and downstream value chain (tCO2e) 9,941 3,423 34.3 Reversals (tCO2e) 0 0 0 CEO Review Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements Board of Directors’ Proposal on a return of capital Auditor’s Report Finnair – Financial Information 2024 101 Business model and operating environment Financial performance in 2024 Financial position and capital expenditure Shareholder return policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Fleet Strategy implementation Changes in company management Shares and shareholders Risk management Significant risks and uncertainties Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Outlook Performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Reconciliation of performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Other performance indicators • Sustainability Report General information Environmental information EU Taxonomy E1 Climate change E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E5 Resource use and circular economy Social information Governance information Report of the Board of Directors"
"To address these impacts and risks, Finnair has established a SAF Working Group dedicated to evaluating how Finnair’s own operations and the operations of its upstream value chain impact biodiversity and ecosystems, with the objective of addressing these aspects of SAF use as part of Finnair’s SAF strategy. Finnair aims to align its strategy with the objectives of maintaining biodiversity and ecosystems at a healthy level, which is a prerequisite for the continuation of business operations. Finnair continues to develop its processes in this area, involving stakeholders as appropriate, to ensure transparency for its impacts and to account for transitional and regulatory risk for operations. E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems Finnair’s Environmental and Energy Efficiency Policy defines Finnair’s commitment to managing its most material environmental and energy efficiency impacts and the objective to continuously improve its operational performance in these areas. The Policy is approved by the Finnair Executive Board and owned by the CEO. The Policy establishes that Finnair has an Environmental Management System (EMS) in place, which shall bring together a coordinated approach to environmental and energy efficiency management, while enabling the holistic management of significant impacts and efficiencies where possible Identified material sustainability matter Type Description Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Adverse impacts of feedstock production for renewable fuel (SAF) Negative impact Producing feedstock for renewable fuel has potential adverse impact on biodiversity mainly through land-use change. The potential impact occurs in Finnair ́s upstream value chain in the medium- and long-term as demand and supply increase. Regulation of renewable feedstock supply and transparency of SAF production Risk Regulatory requirements can potentially lead to issues with the availability of sufficient volumes of feedstock, which may lead to shortage of SAF supply on the market and thus, an increase in the price level. On the other hand, lack of transparency may create a reputational risk as Finnair procures SAF from the market. through a wider consideration of operational activities. The Policy also states that Finnair will explore the sustainable deployment of renewable fuels together with its business partners as the sustainable production of SAF requires cooperation in the value chain. Specific measures related to biodiversity and ecosystems are not addressed at Policy-level, but rather in SAF procurement guidelines and processes. The Policy also establishes that Finnair aims to protect biodiversity and ecosystems and minimise its impacts on these. Finnair does not tolerate illegal wildlife trade (IWT) and promotes the aviation industry’s activities against it. For further information on IWT, see G1 Business conduct. SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model CEO Review Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements Board of Directors’ Proposal on a return of capital Auditor’s Report Finnair – Financial Information 2024 104 Business model and operating environment Financial performance in 2024 Financial position and capital expenditure Shareholder return policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Fleet Strategy implementation Changes in company management Shares and shareholders Risk management Significant risks and uncertainties Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Outlook Performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Reconciliation of performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Other performance indicators • Sustainability Report General information Environmental information EU Taxonomy E1 Climate change E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E5 Resource use and circular economy Social information Governance information Report of the Board of Directors"
"E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems Finnair’s identified material impacts and risks related to biodiversity are connected to the sourcing of biogenic SAF. In its operations, Finnair is committed to purchasing SAF that shall meet at least the following sustainability criteria: • The purchased SAF should generate at least 50% lower carbon emissions on a life cycle basis compared to the baseline of fossil fuel. The fossil baseline shall be the CORSIA baseline of 89 gCO2e/ MJ for impact measurement. This mitigates the impact of climate change on biodiversity. • The purchased SAF shall be validated by an external certification body (e.g., ISCC, RSB) against a recognised sustainability standards and requirements (e.g., CORSIA or EU RED). This addresses the potential adverse impact of feedstock production on biodiversity. CORSIA is a global scheme designed for international flights between participating countries, whereas EU RED applies to EU member states. There are certain differences between the requirements of CORSIA and EU RED for the sustainability principles that the SAF shall meet, namely in terms of biodiversity, conservation, ecosystem services, and impact on food production. Continuous dialogue with Finnair’s current SAF providers is conducted to ensure the compatibility of the procured SAF. Finnair is also engaging with various stakeholders from fuel providers to regulators to ensure sustainable and scalable future production of non-biogenic SAF. During 2024, Finnair participated in UN Global Compact Finland’s training program focusing on Science-based Targets for Nature (SBTN), with the aim of developing knowledge on the assessment of the nature impacts of its operations. Within 2025 Finnair also aims to introduce more thorough guidance on SAF sustainability criteria in accordance with the latest regulatory requirements and scientific findings. During 2024, no biodiversity offsets were utilised nor was local or indigenous knowledge or nature-based solutions incorporated into decision-making. For the reporting period of 2024, Finnair has not quantified the current or future operational and capital expenditures related to addressing biodiversity or ecosystem impacts. E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems Finnair has not set targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems as there is currently not a mature enough understanding of SAF’s biodiversity and ecosystem impacts to put in place measurable and outcome- oriented targets. Finnair’s continuous objective is to protect biodiversity and ecosystems and minimise its impacts on these. This is achieved by sustainable purchasing guidelines of SAF. E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change Finnair is not following quantitative impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change as there is currently not a mature enough understanding of SAF’s biodiversity and ecosystem impacts. Finnair is aiming to develop understanding of its operations’ nature impacts through, for example, participation in SBTN training. The potential impacts of SAF production on biodiversity and ecosystems are evaluated to materialise in the long-term so stakeholders’ understanding is likely to increase in the future along the value chain, namely among SAF producers, regulators, and airlines. CEO Review Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements Board of Directors’ Proposal on a return of capital Auditor’s Report Finnair – Financial Information 2024 105 Business model and operating environment Financial performance in 2024 Financial position and capital expenditure Shareholder return policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Fleet Strategy implementation Changes in company management Shares and shareholders Risk management Significant risks and uncertainties Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Outlook Performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Reconciliation of performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Other performance indicators • Sustainability Report General information Environmental information EU Taxonomy E1 Climate change E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E5 Resource use and circular economy Social information Governance information Report of the Board of Directors"
"E5 Resource use and circular economy Finnair conducted a double materiality assessment in 2023 according to the process described under ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities. E5-1 Polices related to resource use and circular economy As part of its Environmental Management System (EMS) Finnair has developed a Circular Economy Policy that addresses the resource use and waste management aspects concerning Finnair’s own operations in its Helsinki-Vantaa airport home hub, with specific objectives set for Finnair Kitchen, Finnair Technical Operations, and Finnair Cargo. The Policy follows the EU Waste Framework Directive (2008/98/ EC) and its amendments to reduce material use, reuse when possible, recycle, and recover. The Policy’s objective is to implement robust material management process in Finnair’s own operations by the end of 2025, including the identifying of most important material and waste flows, finding opportunities to minimise those, implementing the measures, and follow-up on progress. Progress is reported to the Sustainability Leadership Team on a quarterly basis by the respective operational Leadership Teams that are accountable for implementing the Policy. For more information on the governance of sustainability at Finnair, see ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies. Policy guidelines for minimising resource use emphasise continuous improvement in Finnair’s own operations. Aurinkomatkat operations are excluded as their resource use in own operations is minimal. Identified material sustainability matter Type Description Use of virgin resources and depletion of natural resources Negative impact The extraction of virgin resources significantly contributes to greenhouse gas emissions and biodiversity loss. Within Finnair’s own operations, in-flight catering services cause substantial material consumption in the form of food, beverages, and packaging. Proactive engagement in the adoption of reused and recycled materials within the industry presents an opportunity to ensure material availability and achieve cost-efficiency. While aircraft manufacturing predominantly involves the use of virgin raw materials, there is potential in reducing this dependency in the medium- and long-term as the cost of virgin raw materials is expected to rise. Decreased need for virgin resources Opportunity Waste generation and non-recycling Negative impact If waste is not properly handled in Finnair’s own operations or its upstream value chain, there are potential negative impacts to the environment in the form of pollution and animal and plant diseases. Not recycling valuable materials leads to increasing exploitation of virgin resources. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION CEO Review Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements Board of Directors’ Proposal on a return of capital Auditor’s Report Finnair – Financial Information 2024 106 Business model and operating environment Financial performance in 2024 Financial position and capital expenditure Shareholder return policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Fleet Strategy implementation Changes in company management Shares and shareholders Risk management Significant risks and uncertainties Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Outlook Performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Reconciliation of performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Other performance indicators • Sustainability Report General information Environmental information EU Taxonomy E1 Climate change E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E5 Resource use and circular economy Social information Governance information Report of the Board of Directors"
"Policy guidelines include, for example, the optimisation of over-catering in Finnair Kitchen operations as well as reducing the use of single-use packaging in Finnair Cargo. In their daily operations, Finnair Technical Operations repairs and maintains aircraft and aircraft components for re-usage, thus extending the life cycle of various aircraft parts. Waste hierarchy is addressed in the Policy in different stages of product and service life cycle. Finnair aims to design its service elements to be light, durable, and repairable to minimise material use and to prevent waste. Repairability allows for the reuse of products. Finnair aims to use recyclable materials when possible. Recycling objectives are set in the Circular Economy Policy acknowledging the animal health regulation (1069/2009/EC) which prohibits recycling of international catering waste. Due to the safety regulations in the aviation industry set in Commission Regulation (EU) No 1321/2014, usage of recycled materials in aircraft is limited, whereas within the service design for inflight catering and cargo operations the use of recycled materials is encouraged. The Circular Economy Policy also addresses sustainable procurement practices in the upstream value chain and sets as an objective for implementing policy and working instructions for sustainable procurement for food and beverage. E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy To achieve the objectives on material management, waste reduction, and recycling outlined in the Circular Economy Policy, Finnair has established a circular economy working group. The working group is responsible for overseeing the continuous improvement actions in the different functions, namely Finnair Kitchen, Finnair Technical Operations and Finnair Cargo. Action plans and resourcing for continuous improvement are approved and results monitored in each operational unit’s Leadership Team. Circular economy action plan implementation does not require significant financial investments in the short-term time horizon. According to Finnair’s sustainability governance model company-level performance is monitored in the Sustainability Leadership Team. Reducing the need for virgin materials Finnair’s product and service design addresses circularity by following a set of principles that aim to minimise virgin material need and prevent non-recyclable waste. These principles address the weight of products, preference for recycled materials, durability and maintainability as well as recyclability by, for example, preferring monomaterials. To address virgin material use and prevent food waste Finnair has established a continuous process to optimise in-flight catering. It is estimated that in 2024 this reduced the annual catering waste by 10 tonnes. Finnair has also replaced individual cosmetics in business class amenity kits with on-demand cosmetics. This has reduced the amount of packaging and prevented the amenity kits from expiring. The usage of aircraft materials and material lifetime are regulated by aviation legislation. Within those regulatory boundaries Finnair Technical Operations is keeping aircraft parts in circulation for as long as possible. New repair possibilities are also constantly evaluated and implemented whenever feasible. Finnair maintains and repairs various components within its own facilities. These include for example various structural items, cargo containers, brakes, wheels, batteries, and several types of cabin and galley equipment. In addition to its own maintenance and repair services, Finnair participates in shared component pools with other organisations. The shared inventory and repair management activities contribute to reduced need for virgin resources and optimise Finnair’s own inventory. As part of the continuous improvement agenda Finnair is currently exploring the possibility of maintaining, repairing, and reusing life vests. Waste generation and recycling Recycling of international catering waste from flights originating outside the EU is prohibited (1069/2009/ EC). This significantly affects Finnair’s ability to CEO Review Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements Board of Directors’ Proposal on a return of capital Auditor’s Report Finnair – Financial Information 2024 107 Business model and operating environment Financial performance in 2024 Financial position and capital expenditure Shareholder return policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Fleet Strategy implementation Changes in company management Shares and shareholders Risk management Significant risks and uncertainties Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Outlook Performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Reconciliation of performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Other performance indicators • Sustainability Report General information Environmental information EU Taxonomy E1 Climate change E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E5 Resource use and circular economy Social information Governance information Report of the Board of Directors"
"recycle materials. To address waste flows that can be recycled Finnair has established a process for continuous improvement where new possible material streams for recycling are identified in the operations, evaluated in the circular economy working group, and implemented within the operational units when feasible. In 2024, glass recycling for smaller aircraft types was implemented in flight operations and cardboard recycling was introduced in Finnair Cargo unit. Planned actions for 2025 include introducing cardboard recycling and recycling of small plastic bottles for flights arriving to Helsinki-Vantaa airport. This would yield approximately 20 tonnes more material directed to recycling instead of energy recovery. Recycling of cabin waste starts with sorting the waste onboard and in addition to existing guidelines, during 2025 the Finnair cabin crew will be presented with an educational video on the topic. As part of the mid-term actions, Finnair is exploring options for recycling aircraft textiles at end-of-life. This requires collaboration with both textile manufacturers and recycling facilities to ensure a sustainable life cycle for the materials. E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy Finnair has not set targets related to resource use and circular economy for the reporting period of 2024. Finnair nevertheless tracks key performance indicators related to the topic as determined in the Circular Economy Policy. The Circular Economy Policy objectives are followed monitoring two quantitative performance indicators. The first indicator is waste produced per passenger. This indicator relates to all identified impacts and risks on the resource inflows and waste as minimising the resource inflows contributes positively to waste reduction. The second performance indicator is recycling rate that relates to waste generation and the use of virgin resources. The scope of both indicators is waste generated at Finnair’s own operations at the Helsinki-Vantaa airport home hub and returning flights. Passenger number is the total number of passengers Category Weight (tonnes) Certified biological, % Recycled materials, kg and % Food and beverage 9,090 0 0 Chemicals 580 0 0 carried on Finnair flights within the reporting year. Internal targets have been set for a five-year period in 2021 and 2025 marks the last year of this journey. The base year 2021 results for these indicators were 0,34 kilograms waste per passenger and recycling rate of 22%. In 2024 the waste per passenger in own operations at Helsinki-Vantaa was 0,21 kilograms and recycling rate was 28%. E5-4 Resource inflows metrics Finnair has recognised material resource inflows in two different categories which together constitute approximately 90% of resource inflows. The biggest category is food and beverage consumed at Finnair Kitchen and outstations to produce in-flight catering. The biggest items within this category include juices, bottled water, and ready-made meals. Another important category is chemicals, where dry ice and nitrogen are the most significant items. Accompanying these, various other chemicals are utilised for their respective purposes in small quantities. In 2024, Finnair’s fleet expansion included the addition of one A350 aircraft, which weighs approximately 140 tonnes. Critical raw materials are assessed separately and their weight totals 700 kilograms, consisting of nickel, copper, titanium, and lithium. In addition, 13 tonnes of aluminium were used. CEO Review Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements Board of Directors’ Proposal on a return of capital Auditor’s Report Finnair – Financial Information 2024 108 Business model and operating environment Financial performance in 2024 Financial position and capital expenditure Shareholder return policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Fleet Strategy implementation Changes in company management Shares and shareholders Risk management Significant risks and uncertainties Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Outlook Performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Reconciliation of performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Other performance indicators • Sustainability Report General information Environmental information EU Taxonomy E1 Climate change E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E5 Resource use and circular economy Social information Governance information Report of the Board of Directors"
"recycle materials. To address waste flows that can be recycled Finnair has established a process for continuous improvement where new possible material streams for recycling are identified in the operations, evaluated in the circular economy working group, and implemented within the operational units when feasible. In 2024, glass recycling for smaller aircraft types was implemented in flight operations and cardboard recycling was introduced in Finnair Cargo unit. Planned actions for 2025 include introducing cardboard recycling and recycling of small plastic bottles for flights arriving to Helsinki-Vantaa airport. This would yield approximately 20 tonnes more material directed to recycling instead of energy recovery. Recycling of cabin waste starts with sorting the waste onboard and in addition to existing guidelines, during 2025 the Finnair cabin crew will be presented with an educational video on the topic. As part of the mid-term actions, Finnair is exploring options for recycling aircraft textiles at end-of-life. This requires collaboration with both textile manufacturers and recycling facilities to ensure a sustainable life cycle for the materials. E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy Finnair has not set targets related to resource use and circular economy for the reporting period of 2024. Finnair nevertheless tracks key performance indicators related to the topic as determined in the Circular Economy Policy. The Circular Economy Policy objectives are followed monitoring two quantitative performance indicators. The first indicator is waste produced per passenger. This indicator relates to all identified impacts and risks on the resource inflows and waste as minimising the resource inflows contributes positively to waste reduction. The second performance indicator is recycling rate that relates to waste generation and the use of virgin resources. The scope of both indicators is waste generated at Finnair’s own operations at the Helsinki-Vantaa airport home hub and returning flights. Passenger number is the total number of passengers Category Weight (tonnes) Certified biological, % Recycled materials, kg and % Food and beverage 9,090 0 0 Chemicals 580 0 0 carried on Finnair flights within the reporting year. Internal targets have been set for a five-year period in 2021 and 2025 marks the last year of this journey. The base year 2021 results for these indicators were 0,34 kilograms waste per passenger and recycling rate of 22%. In 2024 the waste per passenger in own operations at Helsinki-Vantaa was 0,21 kilograms and recycling rate was 28%. E5-4 Resource inflows metrics Finnair has recognised material resource inflows in two different categories which together constitute approximately 90% of resource inflows. The biggest category is food and beverage consumed at Finnair Kitchen and outstations to produce in-flight catering. The biggest items within this category include juices, bottled water, and ready-made meals. Another important category is chemicals, where dry ice and nitrogen are the most significant items. Accompanying these, various other chemicals are utilised for their respective purposes in small quantities. In 2024, Finnair’s fleet expansion included the addition of one A350 aircraft, which weighs approximately 140 tonnes. Critical raw materials are assessed separately and their weight totals 700 kilograms, consisting of nickel, copper, titanium, and lithium. In addition, 13 tonnes of aluminium were used. CEO Review Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements Board of Directors’ Proposal on a return of capital Auditor’s Report Finnair – Financial Information 2024 108 Business model and operating environment Financial performance in 2024 Financial position and capital expenditure Shareholder return policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Fleet Strategy implementation Changes in company management Shares and shareholders Risk management Significant risks and uncertainties Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Outlook Performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Reconciliation of performance indicators classified as alternative performance measures Other performance indicators • Sustainability Report General information Environmental information EU Taxonomy E1 Climate change E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E5 Resource use and circular economy Social information Governance information Report of the Board of Directors"
