"Members of the Supervisory Board Details of the members of the Supervisory Board per 31 December 2024, including other positions, are provided in the following table. D.J. (Dirk Jan) van den Berg (Chair SB, member SARC) D.K. (Dugald) Agble (member ARC) E.M. (Eme) Essien Lore (member SB, member ARC, member Impact Committee) Dutch, 1953, male British, Ghanian, 1970, male American, 1970, female Appointment in current position: 2016 - 2024 (AGM 2025) (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Appointment in current position: 2024 - 2028 (first term) Experience: Supervisory, Political relations, International relations, Healthcare Experience: Supervisory, Private Equity, Impact investing Experience: Supervisory, Finance, Risk, Emerging Markets, Impact Investing, Corporate Governance, Diversity & Inclusion Principal position: 1. Chair of the Association of Health Insurance Companies in the Netherlands (Zorgverzekeraars Nederland) Other positions: 1. Member of the Supervisory Board of the AFKL-holding (Air France - KLM S.A.) 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Research Council (NWO) 3. Chair (non-executive) of the Board of Stasq B.V. (formerly: Tradesparent B.V.) a startup/scaleup software company offering solutions in data management for commodity trading industries. 4. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of FMO. Positions: 1. Director Patria Private Equity Trust Plc (formerly named abrdn Private Equity Opportunities) 2. Director Black Volta limited 3. Director Black Volta Ventures UK limited 4. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Positions: 1. Senior Advisor for ESG Africa 2. Co-founder and Executive Director of Wealth4Impact 3. Independent non-executive director and member of the Audit Committee of Africa50 Infrastructure Acceleration Fund 4. Independent non-executive director, chair of the Investment Strategy Committee and member of the Audit Committee of ARM Pension Managers (until 18 September 2024) 5. Independent non-executive director, member of the Remuneration Committee and chair of the Audit & Risk Committee of AfyA Nigeria 6. Member of the Sustainability and ESG Advisory Committee of Blue Like an Orange Sustainable Capital 7. Chair of African Children's Hospital Foundation (this organization is inactive. There have been no activities in the last 3 years) 8. Investment Committee member of Chui Ventures 9. Investment Committee member of Enko Impact Credit Fund 10. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO 58 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"J.V. (Koos) Timmermans (Vice- chair SB, Chair ARC) M. (Marjolein) Demmers (member SB, Chair Impact Committee, member SARC) R.P.F. (Reintje) van Haeringen (member SB, Chair SARC, member Impact Committee) Dutch, 1960, male Dutch, 1967, female Dutch, 1963, female Appointment in current position: 2017 - 2025 (AGM 2026) (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Experience: Supervisory, Banking, Finance, Sustainability, International relations, Risk & Regulatory Experience: Supervisory, NGOs, Sustainability, Compliance, Operations Experience: Supervisory, Development, Poverty reduction Positions: 1. Member of the Supervisory Board of PostNL 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of Havenbedrijf Rotterdam (Port Authority Rotterdam) 3. Board Member Administratie Kantoor Vopak 4. Board Member Administratie Kantoor Philips 5. Member Advisory Board Van Lanschot Kempen 6. Member Supervisory Board KWF Dutch Cancer Society 7. Member of the Supervisory Board of NN 8. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Principal position: Director/CEO of Dutch environmental NGO “Natuur & Milieu” Other positions: 1. Chair of the Supervisory Board of DRIFT (research, consultancy and education in transitions) 2. Board member of SKAO (Schemabeheerder CO2-prestatieladder) 3. Member of the Strategic Advisory Council of TNO ISP (ICT, Policy & Strategy) 4. Member of the Sustainability Board Van Oord 5. Member of the Advisory Council Environmental Sciences Group (ESG), WUR 6. Member Raad van Toezicht Stichting Sustainable Industry Lab (SIL), UU 7. Member Raad van Toezicht Stichting Robin Food Coalition (research and collaboration in the food transition) 8. Member Steering Board KIN – Klimaatonderzoek Initiatief Nederland – Science for Accelerating Transitions (NWO) 9. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Principal position: CEO CARE Nederland Other positions: 1. Board member of the ‘Samenwerkende Hulp Organisaties’ (SHO/Giro555) 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Relief Alliance 3. Member Advisory Board of 4TU’s initiative on resilience 4. Member of Steering Committee KUNO, a platform for humanitarian knowledge exchange 5. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO 59 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
RISK MANAGEMENT 03
"being formalized. To ensure the narrative's accuracy and completeness, the report undergoes multiple levels of review within FMO. At FMO, risks are prioritized based on their severity, which is assessed using two factors: probability and impact. Probability measures how likely a risk event is to occur. Impact considers the potential consequences, which can include operational loss, financial errors, failure to meet business goals, regulatory issues, or damage to reputation. Risk severity is assessed based on probability and impact, and classified as high, medium, or low. This corresponds to a 'Level of Concern' (LoC) rating: high (LoC 3), medium (LoC 2), or low (LoC 1). Depending on the severity, actions are required: High (LoC 3): actions must be completed within 3-6 months. Medium (LoC 2): actions should be completed within 6-9 months. Low (LoC 1): actions are optional. As the four risks identified as part of the first layer are key risks, they have a high LoC, while the risks in the second layer have been qualified with a medium LoC. The risks within the first layer have controls in place that are regularly being monitored and tested by their designated owners, in line with FMO’s approach. While for the second layer of risks related to data, controls are in place, but only some of them are being actively monitored as part of FMO’s overall risk governance and risk management approach. FMO is currently working on integrating the controls not regularly monitored and tested within the organization’s overall risk and management approach. Future actions FMO adheres to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Code is maintained by the Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code and supported by the ‘schragende partijen’ (supporting parties) consisting of Eumedion, Euronext, FNV, CNV, Vereniging van Effecten Bezitters (VEB), de Vereniging van Effecten Uitgevende Ondernemingen (VEUO) and VNO-NCW. The supporting parties and the Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants have suggested amending the Code to include a ‘Verklaring omtrent Risicobeheersing’ (VOR). According to this proposal, listed companies and other companies following the Dutch Corporate Governance Code will be required to include for the first time in the annual report on 2025 a disclosure statement on risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting. Although sustainability reporting guidelines such as CSRD / ESRS are not embedded in the Corporate Governance code yet, FMO would like to adhere to these requirements as soon as possible. ESRS calls for a connectivity between the 'Financial Statements' and 'Sustainability statement' both from the process perspective and disclosures perspective. As this is the first time reporting, FMO recognizes this as a point of attention. It is up to the Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code to amend the Code to accommodate the VOR proposal. In a letter to the Dutch parliament, the minister of finance encourages the (to be appointed) Monitoring Committee to include the VOR. 131 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E1 Climate Change E1 Introduction In its 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan, FMO presents a set of ambitions, targets and actions to contribute to climate change mitigation and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction. SDG 13 on Climate Change is one of the core components of our 2030 Strategy. An important component of FMO's climate ambition is that it contributes to a just and inclusive transition. We recognize that environmental and social objectives are inextricably linked. For FMO, this represents both the synergies and necessity of pursuing our core SDG goals SDGs 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), 10 (Reducing Inequalities), and 13 (Climate Action) together, if we are to be successful in contributing to any of them individually. FMO acknowledges that climate change will undermine sustainable development goals if not urgently addressed. This implies that FMO’s customers (both current and new) might face new and never previously experienced risks from negative climate change consequences. The rise in weather and climate extremes has already led to some irreversible effects, while the preservation of ecosystems is essential for human well-being and the achievement of the SDGs. FMO recognizes that development finance is urgently needed to contribute to SDG 13, and to support an inclusive and just transition. FMO steers its investments towards those aiming at contributing to a positive impact towards SDG 13, such as investments related to climate adaptation, resilience and mitigation, while managing possible negative impacts. E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities Based on our double materiality assessment (DMA), we have identified the following impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) related to the topic of climate change. Table 14 Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Climate change mitigation Actual negative impact Financed emissions contributing negatively to climate change. Financed emissions Short term Downstream Investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. Power Generation Emission Reduction Target Climate change adaptation Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of investments throughout agricultural supply chains on climate change adaptation through the increase of sustainable, resource efficient and resilient practices and business models. These investments aim to enhance the readiness and capacity of stakeholders to address changing weather patterns and extreme events (e.g. droughts or floods) associated with climate change. Contribution to climate adaptation through investments. Long term Downstream Investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals; Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. SDG 13 Target 132 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Climate change mitigation Potential positive impact Impact through climate mitigation as a result of investments into renewable energy production capacity, CO2 storage and energy infrastructure in developing countries and fragile states, financing the transition away from fossil fuels and thus reducing overall GHG emissions. Contribution to climate mitigation through investments. Medium term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Energy Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of renewable energy production capacity and energy infrastructure investments to reduce volatility of energy prices experienced using fossil fuel sources, and increase the stability of local energy grids and production capacity, as well as strengthen resilience against extreme weather events caused by climate change, contributing overall to better climate change resilience and adaptation for beneficiaries. Contribution to renewable energy production capacity through investments. Medium term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals, Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Climate change adaptation Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of investing in FI's to provide climate financing, including the use of innovative technologies, such as FinTech, or financial instruments to entrepreneurs or FI's in developing countries, providing new access to financing of climate resilience solutions. Contribution to increased access to financing of climate resilience solutions. Long term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Climate change adaptation Opportunity The opportunity for FMO to identify, create and develop new markets relating to climate adaptation (e.g. climate smart and resilient solutions) into bankable projects, to deploy and attract public or private funds and generate return on investment at scale. Opportunity to create new markets related to climate adaptation. Upstream, Downstream investment portfolio CAP: Increasing climate investments to support our customers. No specific target Climate change mitigation Risk Risk of not achieving net zero alignment by 2050, caused by misaligned investment decisions or poor progress by clients and beneficiaries, resulting in reputational, legal and financial issues. Risk of not being in the path to Net Zero. Own operations CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. No specific target 133 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of climate hazards having a material impact on client creditworthiness, caused primarily by effects from acute physical climate hazards such as floods, wildfires, droughts and other extreme weather events. Risk of physical climate hazards on clients. Downstream investment portfolio Climate Risk Policy CAP: Active management of our climate action. No specific target Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of choosing inefficient climate mitigation innovations or some which have the need to be further developed. Investments in the innovative sector have the potential of not being profitable. Risk of investing in inefficient climate mitigation innovations. Downstream investment portfolio No specific target Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of FIs being affected by macroeconomic conditions in the event of a chaotic transition to a low-carbon economy (i.e. rapid, large changes in policy, financing or sentiment), or as a result of the ineffective transition and adaptation to the new reality of climate change, resulting in financial damage to FMO. Risk of a chaotic transition to low-carbon economy. Downstream investment portfolio Climate Risk Policy CAP: Active management of our climate action. No specific target FMO’s DMA, as described in 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', identified potential negative impacts through financed absolute emissions and potential positive impacts through investments in climate adaptation, climate mitigation and renewable energy as well as physical and transition risks. The Climate Risk Report and Climate Action Plan (CAP), both prepared in 2022, provided important input for determining FMO’s climate-related IROs. Impacts Both positive and negative impacts take place downstream in our investment portfolio. The impact of our own operations or those of our upstream suppliers are not considered material because of the small scale of emissions compared to those in our portfolio. The CAP describes how FMO actively monitors its activities and portfolio, thereby identifying actual and potential future GHG emission sources and other climate-related impacts within its operations and across its value chains. The intent of our data/ information collection drive is not only to use the information we gather for reporting and compliance purposes, but to actively manage our portfolio better, and to tailor our climate actions towards what is most effective. We will continue to work on improving our internal management and reporting systems to actively manage progress towards our sustainability goals. As part of our ESG management process we uphold IFC Performance Standard 3 (IFC PS3) (addressing resource efficiency and pollution prevention), which includes minimizing the pollution from project activities. When project related emissions are potentially significant, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g. use of renewable energy sources, sustainable agricultural, the reduction of fugitive emissions, etc.) that avoid or reduce emissions in order to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment (IFC PS3). FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for integrating emission reduction into product design and operational processes (IFC PS3). Specifically, ""this applies to the release of pollutants to air, water, and land due to routine, non- routine, and accidental circumstances with the potential for local, regional, and transboundary impacts."" Transboundary pollutants include those covered under the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary 134 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Air Pollution, such VOCs that are key precursors in the formation of tropospheric ozone and particulate matter (of which black carbon is a significant component). This means that by upholding the IFC PS we indirectly screen investments for climate-related impacts, such as black carbon and tropospheric ozone. FMO reports on financed absolute emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 in line with the GHG Protocol, as described in more detail in section 'E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions'. The financed absolute GHG emissions are reported in line with the Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry published by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). Although emissions from FMO operations are not considered material, we will continue to report scope 1 and 2 emissions to be able to present a full picture of our GHG emission footprint. Risks & opportunities The material climate-related risks and opportunities for FMO occur both upstream and downstream in the investment portfolio. The climate-related risks identified in the DMA are aligned with internal risk assessment processes and documents. The assessment of climate risks happens on an ongoing basis at FMO. We run a portfolio scan on a quarterly basis that is reported to the Financial Risk Committee (FRC), which monitors our portfolio’s exposure to physical and transition risks. We also conduct materiality assessments which determine the potential for climate risk drivers to affect FMO’s portfolio or the entity itself. Both processes are discussed with the FRC. Furthermore, work is ongoing to embed climate risk assessments at the organizational level as well as within the investment cycle. The regular climate risk assessments inform the Financial Risk team’s decisions. Scenarios are considered and factors are stressed in FMO’s Internal Capital and Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Processes (ICAAP and ILAAP), which are aligned with our regular Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) cycle. FMO’s physical climate risks were assessed over the current, medium and long-term using a high- emissions scenario and in line with guidelines from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the ECB guide on Climate-related and Environmental Risks. While the climate risk assessment covers physical risks and transition risks, the various time horizons and high-emissions scenario were applied only to physical risks. FMO is currently working on further defining a methodology to assess transition risks that is suitable for the markets in which it operates. The climate risks associated with FMO’s investment portfolio are also described in FMO’s first climate risk report, which, as mentioned above, are aligned with the climate-related risks identified in the DMA. This report was written in line with the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) requirements and shows that FMO’s portfolio is exposed to climate change risks, which will increase over time, with clear differences across locations, sectors and hazard types. This analysis, as well as those resulting from FMO’s ICAAP and ILAAP and continuous monitoring, served as input for the DMA, where additional transition risks (and opportunities) were identified. The climate scenarios used are currently independent of the financial models, as FMO currently does not include climate-related assumptions in the financial models. FMO will explore assessing possible inclusion of climate-related risks in our financial models based on expected credit losses. As part of our DMA, we identified a specific downstream (portfolio) risk related to water (E3) that we feel is better addressed under the risk of climate hazards here in E1: “There is a global risk of increased water scarcity due to climate change, increased water withdrawals and unsustainable water practices. This affects costs of production through higher water prices and leads to reduced crop yield and failure.” This is covered by the current climate hazards risk described in Table 14. Physical risks FMO plans to perform a physical risk assessment in line with the recommendations set out by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the ECB guide on Climate-related and Environmental Risks (ECB, 2021). For this reason we have developed a C&E risk assessment tool that supports the identification and monitoring of C&E risks at the customer level. The tool currently focuses mainly on physical climate risks. 135 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Various physical risks (flooding, temperature extremes, fire, water stress, drought, erosion, tropical cyclones and crop yield loss) are assessed based on a multiplication of hazard scores at specific locations or regions and sensitivity scores (specific to the sector/industry of the investment/business activity) to these hazards. The climate-related physical hazards have been identified over current-, medium- and long-term time horizons. For the physical climate risks, current-, medium- and long-term time horizons have been defined as follows: Current-term: 2011-2040 Medium-term: 2041-2070 Long-term: 2071-2100 These time horizons are different from the time horizons specified by the ESRS. The time horizons used are in line with standard practice in the climate science community, where climate refers to the long- term weather pattern in a region, typically averaged over 30 years. In some cases, if the original data source did not overlap with these time horizons, the closest time period was chosen. The physical risk assessments are currently not tied to the lifetime of the exposure. Even if human-induced climate changes would not materialize in the near future under the climatological time horizon, foreseen changes may already affect investment decisions and other financial parameters today and therefore materialize earlier from a financial risk perspective, within the time horizons as specified by the ESRS. The ICAAP assessments consider climate risks over a period of three years. Physical risks hazards are estimated to affect FMO’s customers in various locations and sectors to different extents, according to the climate risk assessment. The physical risks assessed in the climate risk assessments were summarized as one physical risk in the DMA. The various physical risks for FMO’s relevant industries are assessed on an ongoing basis and reported through regular reviews within internal committees at portfolio level. To increase the granularity and understanding of these risks, FMO is currently in the process of rolling out physical climate risk assessments in the investment process, complementing the assessment at portfolio level as mentioned above. The scores for physical hazards were created for both acute and chronic hazard types under a high emissions or worst-case climate scenario, which is the IPCC RCP 8.5 scenario. RCP 4.5 was also considered, but the projections from RCP 8.5 cover a greater range of climate conditions, especially for the long-term time horizon. Furthermore, the temperature and rainfall changes are more intense under RCP 8.5, and the long-term projections from RCP 4.5 are quite similar to the medium-term projection from RCP 8.5. In conclusion, RCP 8.5 covers a wider range of climate conditions (more extremes) for the risk assessment, so we believe this is the more appropriate choice, as it better covers potential risks and uncertainties. RCP 8.5 makes the following assumptions about policies, macro-economic trends, energy usage and mix, and technology: Policy Assumptions: It assumes minimal or no additional climate policies beyond those already in place, leading to high GHG emissions. Macroeconomic Trends: The scenario includes assumptions about high population growth and relatively slow income growth. Energy Usage and Mix: It projects high energy demand with a continued reliance on fossil fuels, resulting in significant GHG emissions. Technology Assumptions: The scenario assumes modest rates of technological change and improvements in energy intensity, meaning that advancements in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies are not sufficient to offset the high energy demand. The scores for physical hazards were derived from climate models listed in the IPCC CMIP5 and CMIP6 protocols, where available. Each hazard was evaluated using a specifically chosen modeling method and simulated hazard exposure outputs from leading, peer-reviewed research institutions, and was further developed in partnership with well-known research institutions. The risk scores were created and standardized at an approximate 50x50 km spatial resolution as a level 1 detailed product. If grid location or country data was missing for an investment or loan, it was excluded from the analysis. Additionally, if 136 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the provided location data was not at least at the country level (e.g. listed as ‘Global’ or ‘Latin America’), it was also not included in the analysis. Transition risks Transition risks are described in FMO’s climate risk methodology. FMO is currently in the process of adjusting its transition risk methodology with a specific focus on considering how this risk can materialize and affect clients in unique ways based on the different markets where FMO invests. In addition, further developments are ongoing, for example: The Paris Alignment methodology was developed in 2023-2024, and it will apply to new investments after its implementation (as described in further detail in E1-3). ICAAP and ILAAP stress testing as described in 'E1 Resilience Analysis'. The transition risks identified in the current assessment framework are focused on industry sensitivities. Additionally, transitional risks and opportunities were identified and scored as material during the DMA 2024 process due to the inputs from interviews and discussions with the project group. We currently do not perform a climate transition risk assessment for new investments, but only at portfolio level. FMO evaluates its exposures to transition risk at portfolio level by considering industry sensitivities, as well as a range of specific energy technologies, various transition risk (drivers) and scale possible risk exposure from 1-5. These risks were taken as input for the DMA, which have been summarized into three transition risks, as presented in the overview table at the start of this section. The risks outlined in the (internal) climate risk assessment align with the risks identified by the DMA. The transition risk assessment at portfolio level analyzes the transition risks (policy and legal; technology- related; market-related and reputational risks) for the various sectors in our portfolio in more detail than the DMA provides. Furthermore, our ICAAP 2022 includes information on the identification of transition events and assessment of exposure informed by climate-related scenario analysis. Our ICAAP from 2023 covers more detail on transition events, and an assessment of exposure based on the stress test assumptions for transition risk, where a disorderly transition is tested. The transition risk assessments mentioned in the 2022 risk assessment are less mature than the physical risks. We are currently updating the transition risk assessment methodology. The transition risks are not yet linked to current-, medium- and long-term time horizons, and these horizons have not been yet defined (transition trends, however, have been linked to current-, medium- and long-term time horizons). We have finalized the methodology for Paris Alignment in 2024. This methodology will enable FMO to identify activities that are incompatible with, or need significant efforts to be compatible with, transition to an economy that is aligned with the climate goals in the Paris Agreement. New transactions will be assessed for alignment with the Paris Agreement goals once the methodology has been rolled out. In the remainder of the E1 chapter, we describe the policies, actions, targets and decarbonization levers related to the IROs that were identified during the DMA, as well as FMO's resilience analysis. E1 Resilience analysis The section 'E1-IRO' describes the material climate-related risks, including whether they are classified as physical or transition risks. To determine the resilience of both its investment portfolio and its own operations, FMO is required by the DNB to assess material risks under the Internal ICAAP and ILAAP through stress testing. FMO’s upstream value chain is not included in this resilience assessment and was also not found to be material by the DMA. The ICAAP and ILAAP assessments are conducted every year, though the depth of the assessments differs depending on whether a SREP runs in a specific year. The frequency of the latter is decided upon by the DNB based on the risk profile of the institution but is typically done on an annual basis. The ICAAP and 137 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"ILAAP assessments are aligned with FMO’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), which formulates the type and amount of risk that the bank is able and willing to accept in pursuit of its strategy. The 2023 version of the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments was the latest one that was part of a SREP. Some additional analyses took place in Q1 of 2024 based on feedback from DNB. Part of the input for the stress tests that were performed for this assessment cycle was based on a Climate Risk Analytics Methodology for FMO to identify material climate risks. Based on the assessment of physical risks by using this methodology, the countries and hazards with the highest severity and likelihood have been selected as input to the stress test. Transition risks have also been included, based on scenarios developed by the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS). Based on the outcomes of the DMA, the focus of FMO’s climate-related risks is on its investment portfolio rather than its own operations or upstream value chain. All material risks as identified in DMA were already included in the materiality assessment underlying the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments. The 2023 ICAAP and ILAAP assessments used 2022 as a base year to make a forecast for the period 2023 - 2025.The climate risk stress testing includes both physical and transition risks, based on established climate scenarios (IPCC, NGFS) to evaluate potential impact on FMO’s portfolio. The ICAAP and ILAAP assessment use stress testing scenarios that include macroeconomic factors, such as currency fluctuations and market volatility. A ‘disorderly transition’ scenario to a low-carbon economy has been formulated with help of experts, which has been used to evaluate potential transitions risks for FMO. This scenario assumed 1) policy & legal risks in the form of carbon pricing, asset stranding, and rising insurance costs, 2) technology and innovation risks in the form of advancements in renewable energy and battery technologies, 3) market risks resulting from changing consumer and market sentiments, and 4) reputation risks resulting from adverse reputational impacts, such as changing perceptions of financing high-carbon activities. The stress tests show that FMO is resilient to material climate risks. Both physical and transition risks under different scenarios have limited impact on liquidity and are within the risk appetite formulated by FMO. Additionally, FMO’s capital position remains adequate, and the excess capital remains robust under all circumstances simulated by the stress test scenarios. Specifically, the climate risks scenarios show that, despite the risks that are relevant for FMO and for the markets in which FMO operates, the impact on the capital position is estimated to remain limited. There were several limitations to the resilience analysis. First, the definition of the physical climate risks used include the fact that the risk definitions are ex-ante and model based, do not include potential adaptation measures, and use a top-down, national level approach. Reliability for these types of risks was further limited by the use of proxy data to fill in data gaps, applying averages over long time- periods, and not including all potential hazards. Secondly, with regards to transition risks, the risk assessment is predominantly based on qualitative information, reducing its systemization and comparability, and not allowing for granularity (e.g., at country-level). While there are inherent uncertainties to climate change and society’s response to it, FMO continues to improve its methodology and run (stress) scenario analyses to capture plausible but severe scenarios for the institution. As mentioned previously, the stress testing done for the resilience analysis is in line with FMO’s RAF. The RAF is monitored, managed and revised regularly to accommodate any market or organizational changes, and is reviewed by the Management Board and approved by the Supervisory Board on an annual basis. If necessary, it can be revised on a semi-annual basis in case of material developments. The outcomes of the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments are used to formulate possible strategic responses. Climate- and environmental risks are inherently material to FMO’s business model & strategic risks, but this risk is also well managed by means of monitoring and reviewing of its business environment and strategic planning embedded within the organization and periodically reviewed with its stakeholders. Currently, the conclusion is that the risks to capital and liquidity related to climate change are well- managed by FMO and do not constitute a risk for the resilience of the business model. In addition to monitoring and managing risks, FMO has a pro-active investment strategy that contributes to climate adaptation and mitigation worldwide, also specifically aiming to increase the resilience of its customers, by engaging actively with them to define climate adaptation solutions and 138 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"providing technical assistance. How FMO implements this in practice will be elaborated on more in 'E1-3 Actions'. Through these actions, FMO not only aims to achieve a positive impact, but also increases resilience of the portfolio against both physical and transition risks. E1 ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes As explained in 'ESRS 2 - Governance of sustainability matters', there is no direct relationship between sustainability-related elements, including climate, and remuneration elements in FMO's remuneration policy. Along with many other elements, climate-related performance only has an indirect effect on remuneration, even though it can contribute in part to individual annual performances. E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation FMO does not have a formal transition plan, however, information included in this section is described in other relevant FMO documents. Two sets of actions, directly contributing to climate change mitigation, can be classified as decarbonization levers, as per the ESRS definition: 1. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. 2. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. These levers are described in more detail in section 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies'. FMO has set a GHG emission reduction target: the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target. FMO aims to reduce emissions from financed scope 1 emissions in power generation by 50 percent in 2030. This target was developed using a 1.5°C pathway scenario (REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4, Scenario: Orderly - Net Zero 2050 scenario, electricity). More details on this target are provided in section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. FMO has set the ambition in its 2030 Strategy to be Net Zero by 2050. In the short-term FMO will steer on aligning financial flows with 1.5°C aligned sectors and activities. FMO is also developing a Paris alignment methodology, based on internationally acknowledged guidelines and best practice. Over time, when data and methodologies have improved, FMO will use country- and sector-based 1.5°C pathways as guidance for the emission intensity requirements of its targets at portfolio and investments level. As a component of our climate action project workstream, we will continue to improve our data collection, including at the level of our customers, and use it to assess our progress. FMO recognizes that climate objectives should be carefully balanced with customer- and/ or location- specific social and environmental considerations, including the need for a just and inclusive transition and will further study how to treat potential tradeoffs in this regard. In addition, FMO invests in projects that contribute to GHG removals and storage, including forestry, and aims to grow forestry investments. The significant operational expenditures (OpEx) in the form of internal and external staff required for the implementation of the decarbonization levers are provided in section 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies', since they are aggregated for the implementation of the Climate Action Plan. The Climate Action Plan includes actions on both climate mitigation and adaptation. There are no material capital expenditures (CapEx) in the form of investments in FMO's own operations associated with the transition plan, as explained further below and in the section 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. FMO has no key (physical) assets in its own operations that materially contribute to climate change, nor do we sell any direct-use products. As such, no carbon lock-ins are expected to occur in the own operations of FMO under the definition provided in ESRS E1. In relation to the application of the lock-in definition for investments in the investment portfolio, as of today FMO does not have a definition of carbon lock-ins related to investments. FMO may have carbon- 139 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"intensive assets in its current portfolio, for example, via indirect investments through financial intermediaries in the Financial Institutions portfolio. However, mechanisms are in place to mitigate this risk in the investment portfolio. In this regard, a distinction between new and legacy investments should be made: 1. For new investments: The Combined Position Statement on Coal and Phasing Out Fossil Fuels excludes and screens out investments that are expected to have a high risk for future carbon lock in. FMO will use the Paris Alignment (PA) methodology to screen potential investments for alignment with the Paris Agreement. See section 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies' for more background on the PA methodology. 2. While there may be carbon-intensive assets locked in, in the current portfolio, the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target applies to both new and existing investments, thereby ensuring that the total emissions from investments in power generation will be reduced by 50 percent in 2030. See section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation' for more information on the Power Generation target. In its current form, the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178, also known as the EU Taxonomy, is applicable for European economic activities. Since FMO invests outside Europe and entities based outside the EU are excluded from the numerator of the Green Asset Ratio (GAR), FMO reports a GAR of 0 percent. This implies that no key performance indicators from the EU Taxonomy can be linked to the resources required for the implementation of the actions described. More information is included in the 'EU Taxonomy' section. Based on FMO’s interpretation of as investments in physical assets in scope 1 and 2 of an organization, there is no CapEx to be identified as material for FMO. As a financial institution, FMO does not do climate-related investments in physical assets in its own operations that can be considered material (see 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment'). FMO is awaiting guidelines or sector standards specifically for financial institutions for possible adaptation of the CapEx definition to financial institutions. FMO is not excluded from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks. The decarbonization levers presented are based on FMO’s 2030 Strategy and the CAP, i.e. the aims and actions described are embedded in FMO’s strategy. This is explained in more detail in the chapter on 'E1 Impact, risks, opportunities'. Details on the progress of each of the decarbonization levers are provided in 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies'. Details on the targets that are part of the decarbonization levers (e.g. the Power Generation Emissions Reduction target and €10 billion SDG 13 target) are provided in 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. The 2030 Strategy was approved by the Supervisory Board in 2022. The CAP was approved by the Management Board in 2022. E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Our material IROs related to climate change are covered in the following two policies. 1. Sustainability Policy 2. Climate Risk Policy In the following sections, these policies are described in further detail. FMO’s commitments and actions on climate are described in the CAP and reported in 'E1-3 Actions'. All policies are subject to frequent revisions as per the Bank Risk Policy and are continuously evolving. Sustainability Policy FMO’s sustainability policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts and is described in more detail in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The Sustainability Policy encompasses FMO’s organizational activities, including energy consumption, resource utilization, travel practices, and new investments, addressing all products offered by FMO. As such, our Sustainability Policy covers how we manage the 140 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"climate-related impacts throughout our value chain. The Sustainability Policy is complemented by several position statements and an exclusion list. For climate change the most noteworthy include: Our Combined Position Statement on Coal and Position Statement on Phasing Out Fossil Fuels from our Investments reflects our approach to phasing out fossil fuels from our portfolio, both direct and indirect. Our Position Statement on Hydro Power Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical and E&S impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. Our Position Statement on Impact and ESG for financial intermediaries outlines FMO’s structural approach to impact steering and ESG management in financial intermediary financing, including restricting our financial intermediary portfolio exposure to coal activities, and promoting and advising on green credit lines or green bonds that support climate action. Our exclusion list contains the activities, products, uses, distribution, business or trade that FMO and the borrower will not finance, extending to the borrowers’ shareholders, their affiliates and their subsidiaries. Additional major documents and processes that explain how material climate positive and negative impacts are managed are: The Paris alignment methodology, which describes our methodology for checking our new investments for alignment with the Paris goals, thereby helping our clients with the transition to become Paris aligned. ESG in the investment process: While the Sustainability Policy explains FMO’s ESG management process, this is operationalized via different internal documents such as the Risk Appetite Framework, Investment Criteria, and SIS manual. The Green Label Guidelines are used to assess eligibility of new investments for a ‘Green Label’. A Green Label is assigned based on the ex-ante potential of an investment in terms of its positive impact on our portfolio, including for instance the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing resource efficiency, preserving and growing natural capital, and/or supporting climate adaptation. The label is not intended to monitor (ex post) impact. The Green Label thereby serves as a strategic steering tool and a proxy for FMO to measure progress against its €10 billion SDG 13 2030 target. In relation to the upstream value chain, an additional relevant document is the Sustainability Bonds Framework, which addresses the four key pillars of the ICMA ESG Bond Principles. The framework explains how FMO attracts private or public funds by issuing sustainable or green bonds in the capital market. Moreover, FMO aims to mobilize public and private capital and to create new bankable opportunities, as described in our 2030 Strategy. Climate Risk Policy The Climate Risk Policy covers our climate-related risks in the entire value chain. Complementing this policy, the climate risk methodology explains how we identify the physical and transition risks associated with climate change. All policies are subject to frequent revisions as per the Bank Risk Policy and are therefore continuously evolving. The Climate Risk Policy aims to: 1. Define climate risk in terms of physical and transition risk drivers. 2. Introduce the approach used to identify climate risks in all FMO’s operations, products, and services. 3. Define the roles and responsibilities related to climate risk identification, assessment, and action. 141 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Table 15. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for Climate Risk Policy Scope of policy The policy applies to the FMO-A portfolio (both on and off-balance sheet) and to FMO-managed government funds. It has a specific focus on assessing and managing climate risks related to FMO's loan and equity investments. In 2025, the scope and name of the policy will be expanded from a climate risk policy to a climate- related and environmental financial risk policy. Accountable body The document is approved by the FRC after consultation via the ISCO and owned by Risk. Implementation is currently managed via an internal project and related implementation oversight is performed by the Steering Committee of the project. Third-party standards/ initiatives (if relevant) The document was developed in the light of the ECB Guide on climate-related and environmental risks. Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) No key external stakeholders were consulted upfront in this process, but the policy has been shared with DNB for information afterwards. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) This is an internal policy and the document is therefore not publicly available. With regards to climate change mitigation, FMO manages material IROs through several processes. Most importantly, through our Green Label guidelines, with which we aim for our portfolio to materially contribute to climate mitigation, reduction of GHG emissions and/or increasing sequestration of GHG emissions from the atmosphere (along with adaptation and energy efficiency, as described below). FMO’s Green Label definition is based on the Common Principles for Climate Mitigation Finance Tracking, as defined by the Multilateral Development Banks. All Green-labelled investments should meet FMO’s Green Principles, namely that Green-labelled investments contribute to a genuine improvement and should not contribute to a long-term lock-in of high carbon infrastructure. A genuine improvement implies that 1) the improvement goes beyond the local regulatory requirements 2) the improvement is unrelated to local resources stress and 3) the improvement is sustainable throughout the value chain of an industry or a business. The implementation of our Paris Alignment methodology will contribute to further aligning our new investments to the Paris Agreement. Furthermore, as per our combined Position Statement on Coal and Phasing Out Fossil Fuels, FMO will not invest in any upstream coal mining activities, transportation of coal, construction or renovation of a coal producing plant, or other associated business or infrastructure. Other fossil fuels are only invested in the exceptional case that a transition phase is deemed necessary to improve a country’s energy accessibility. The combined position statement applies to both direct and indirect investments of FMO. The SBF sets out a list of climate change mitigation activities eligible for the sustainability bonds issued. The Climate Risk Policy includes components such as knowledge and awareness development, embedding climate risk in the organization's strategy, governance, risk appetite determination, policy adjustments, stress testing, climate risk assessment methodology development, and internal and external reporting. FMO manages its knowledge components and supports customers primarily via technical assistance. Investment teams are responsible for assessing climate risks and it is at their discretion to discuss the outcomes with clients. The Risk department maintains the methodology and supports knowledge development across the organization. Besides climate mitigation, FMO also aims to contribute to climate adaptation. Most notably, we do this through our Green Label, through which we label those investments that ex ante are expected to positively contribute to climate adaptation. For a customer or an activity to be eligible for a Green Label in this category, it needs to be assessed to meet the climate adaptation principles set by the IFC-MDB joint methodology for climate change adaptation. This means that climate change adaptation is defined as achieving climate resilience outcomes in response to relevant climate change impacts, by managing or reducing physical climate risks, reducing the underlying causes of vulnerability and avoiding maladaptation. 142 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Our Paris Alignment methodology further aims to ensure a minimum level of resilience for Paris alignment. Our physical Climate Risk Assessment underpins our climate adaptation label analysis. The SBF sets out a list of climate change adaptation activities eligible for the sustainability bonds. Following the EDFI Statement on Climate and Energy Finance and as part of our Climate Action Plan, FMO aims to finance initiatives that contribute to adaptation and resilience to climate change, especially in respect of vulnerable communities and natural ecosystems. Improving energy efficiency is one of the ways by which FMO strives to remain climate neutral in all its operational activities. FMO looks to build-up a portfolio that is targeted at improving access to basic services, such as energy, and aiming to optimally use scarce resources. Energy efficiency is seen as a form of climate change mitigation when assessing activities according to the Green Label Guidelines: at least 20 percent reduction in energy consumption or GHG emissions is required for it to comply with that category. Through our E&S practices, we apply IFC PS3: Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, which is specific for water and pollution (e.g. air, noise, water) related impacts and for opportunities on efficiencies (e.g. energy or water). This also involves the issuance of sustainability bonds used to finance renewable energy and improve energy. Regarding renewable energy deployment, following the EDFI Statement on Climate and Energy Finance, our Sustainability Policy states that FMO is committed to increase its share of investment that contributes to low-carbon, reliable and affordable energy. As described previously, through our Green Label and Position Statements, we aim to increase our portfolio’s share of contribution to renewable energy deployment and avoid investments in non-renewables respectively. Also, investing in renewable energy is central to our Energy sector strategy, which is one of the three core sectors in which FMO invests. Finally, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments in biodiversity and forestry, to remove carbon and increase resilience. For further information please refer to 'E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems'. E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies The three main actions to operationalize FMO’s 2030 Strategy in relation to climate are as follows: 1. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. 2. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. 3. Active management of our climate action. Details regarding these actions are described in the following sections. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals This action consists of the following sub-actions: 1. Reduce emissions in our investments, so that in 2050 our portfolio’s aggregate absolute emissions, when added with our carbon removal investments’ negative emissions, result in net zero emissions. We will strive to align the overall portfolio emission reductions with aggregate country- and sector- specific 1.5oC emission reduction pathways, taking into account a just and inclusive transition. At FMO we recognize that a starting point for Paris alignment are the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and National Adaptation Plans, and while we will seek to align our investments with these plans, we also seek to raise the ambition level of our customers and strive toward 1.5oC pathway alignment. 143 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"2. Reduce power generation portfolio emissions by 50 percent to 2030, while at the same time approximately doubling our sustainable power generation portfolio and overall energy portfolio. We will consider additional targets in other parts of the portfolio. 3. Assess new investments for Paris alignment from a climate mitigation and resilience perspective, by implementing an investment-level Paris alignment assessment for new transactions. 4. Implement our commitment under the EDFI Climate and Energy Statement regarding fossil fuels in our indirect investments, and consider other policies that support our goals. FMO has a dedicated project allocated to the implementation of this action. Since 2023, FMO has a dedicated workstream focused on developing a Paris alignment methodology and further developing our in-house capacity. In 2024 FMO finalized its Paris alignment methodology, based on the MDB Principles for Paris Alignment. This methodology will be used to assess new investments for Paris alignment from a mitigation and resilience perspective and was piloted in 2024 based on which the methodology was further refined and finalized. The Paris alignment assessment methodology will be rolled out in the coming period and once ready, will be used to assess new transactions. Additionally, FMO will work further towards an approach for striving towards 1.5-degree alignment and develop climate mitigation KPIs for progress measurement. The overall action can be classified as a decarbonization lever, since the sub-actions will reduce emissions in FMO's investment portfolio, thereby mitigating climate change. The target of reducing power generation emissions by 50 percent in 2030 is part of this action. This target – together with performance on expected and achieved GHG reductions - is elaborated in section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers This action is made of by the following sub-actions: 1. Building up a portfolio of at least €10 billion dedicated to SDG 13 goals in climate mitigation, adaptation & resilience (including nature-based solutions), biodiversity, and other footprint reduction. We do this by engaging with customers such as our financial institutions to encourage their further investments in these objectives, through activities that contribute to developing our markets (market creation), and by mobilizing additional capital to closing the financing gap needed in emerging markets. 2. Increasing our climate mitigating investments and investments that contribute to solutions for adaptation, resilience and biodiversity, thereby strengthening our customers’ resilience to climate change. Examples of what this entails, include: Corporate governance advisory work focused on climate governance and climate risk, building on the work we have done in this area to date. Technical assistance funding, building on platforms like our Green Finance Framework. Engagement with portfolio companies and new customers to influence them to set targets and transition plans to reduce their emissions over time, or at a minimum to consider technical solutions together. Supporting green finance innovation in our investments. Active shareholdership by ensuring our investees are prepared for both climate risks and opportunities. Creating coalitions with key nature conservation organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, and promoting community and stakeholder engagement. 3. Provide sector-specific solutions for energy, financial institutions, and agriculture and forestry. Regarding energy, FMO will continue financing utility scale clean energy generation projects (solar, wind both on- and offshore, hydro power and geothermal), with an increased attention towards the least developed countries (LDCs) and fragile states. These efforts will be an important driver behind our climate mitigation and resilience goals. Towards 2030, through sector initiatives, partner engagement, and other means, we will work to remove bottlenecks currently slowing down the sustainable energy transition in some of our markets. We will also work toward sustainable energy access and inclusion, while further scaling both already established / proven and innovative technologies and solutions. 144 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"For financial institutions, FMO will increasingly aim to have a ‘transformative’ impact on customers through a strategic approach including the development of product propositions, capabilities, and related financing with the goal of having the same effect on end beneficiaries. Finally, regarding agriculture and forestry, our focus will remain on strengthening local agricultural and food supply chains for both local or regional markets to increase local production and reduce reliance on imports, to improve local access to nutritious food, and to reduce food waste (e.g. through more and improved storage and distribution). We continue our focus on decent work and economic inclusion of the bottom 40 percent of income distribution, including smallholder farmers and women. Towards 2030, emphasis will be on engagement and investing more in global merchants, input providers and food companies with leverage to increase sustainable practices, along the (international) agricultural supply chains. We will continue expanding our integral/ landscape approach to supporting and investing in sustainable land-use and ecosystem protection and restoration, among others, through our work on forestry (carbon sequestration), climate smart and regenerative agriculture, soil improvements and livelihoods. 4. Continue to invest in carbon removals, specifically forestry, and help build these markets. More details on this are provided in the section 'E1-7 GHG Removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits'. 5. Contribute to our impact portfolio growth objectives through our market creation efforts and scale our activities through our mobilization efforts. In order to advance our impact contributions (including for climate action), through ‘market creation’ we aim to develop unbankable opportunities into bankable projects, as well as drive topics and business models of the future. We aim to accelerate impact by upscaling mobilization of private and public capital by aiming to double this portfolio by 2030 through: Developing climate fund propositions for large scale mobilization, following a just and inclusive transition approach, targeting both climate impact and social impact. Blending public and commercial funding for high-impact propositions in LDCs. Exploring possibilities for equity mobilization. Strengthening syndication efforts by increasing sourcing capacity of transactions, and by expanding and diversifying our investor base. 6. Engaging with our customers to increase their Paris alignment and provide them with technical assistance and other support. This will include helping to develop climate governance and climate risk frameworks and tools to work with their clients. We will specifically start with pan-regional customers as agents of change, gradually expanding to all customers over time. FMO’s Green Label Methodology was updated in 2023 by the Sustainability Strategy and Policy team (established in 2023), following updated Multilateral Development Banks common principles for climate mitigation finance tracking. FMO has also established a Sustainable Finance Advisory team to support investment teams with Green deal origination. This team reached its full size at the end of 2023 and initiated work with the sectors in 2024. On advancing sector-specific solutions for energy, financial institutions, and agriculture and forestry, in 2024, FMO developed a climate framework for Technical Assistance (TA) to the Private Equity and Agribusiness, Food and Water sectors. Through the climate framework, FMO is able to offer customers in the Private Equity and Agribusiness, Food and Water sectors TA on climate adaptation and mitigation. This includes climate awareness training, climate risk assessments, GHG measurement and reporting, climate action planning and implementation, climate opportunity origination, and compliance with sustainability standards. As part of our ambition to continue to invest in carbon removals, specifically forestry, and help build these markets, FMO has investment officers specialized in forestry in various investment teams. Under market creation, FMO has defined four focus themes: financial inclusion and resilience for entrepreneurs, responsible energy transition, forestry and sustainable land-use, and food system transformation. In 2024, we worked in particular on operationalizing and building out the financial inclusion theme. 145 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"The overall action can be classified as a decarbonization lever, since it will contribute to reducing emissions, thereby mitigating climate change. However, no GHG emission reduction target is linked to this action. Active management of our climate action This action is comprised of a set of sub-actions: 1. Monitor our work at a portfolio level, including absolute and relative emission levels. In order to achieve the impact we aim for, having the right data and additional information needed for measuring and steering our work will be key. 2. Continue to improve data quality and collection, including at the level of our customers. Data collection in our markets and for our specific customer types is not always readily available, especially for investments in smaller companies and for financial institutions and funds, which need to obtain data from their clients. To tackle this challenge, together with our development finance institution partners, we launched the Joint Impact Model (JIM) in 2021. The JIM allows us to model the emissions in the absence of emission data, to have an indication of our portfolio emissions. 3. Adopt an adaptive management approach and adjust our actions based on data and information. The intent of our data/information collection drive is to not only use the information we gather to report and for compliance purposes, but to also better actively manage our portfolio and tailor our climate actions to what is most effective. Moving forward, we will continue to work on improving our systems. 4. Implement a climate risk framework to manage the portfolio for both physical and transition climate risk. Integrating climate risk at FMO is about ensuring that risks to our portfolio due to climate change (physical and transition risks) are structurally identified, assessed, and managed. It is also about bringing this knowledge to our customers and structuring our transactions with the same considerations. Ultimately managing climate risk is another way to drive the change we want to see in our markets. The implementation of this action is mainly covered via a project. In 2024, FMO made progress in developing transition and physical risk assessment methodologies for assessing climate risk. Physical risk assessment tooling is currently implemented for all sectors. Furthermore, FMO established a climate risk policy as well as a quarterly portfolio scan as part of the climate risk framework. FMO also continued work on improving data quality and collection. For the first time, FMO reported the PCAF score for the tracking of emissions data quality. FMO will further work on transition risk assessment and improving data quality and management. FMO will also aim to refine emissions data to better take into account known use-of-proceeds instruments, i.e., when the investment is allocated to specific assets of a customer. While this action aims to enhance FMO’s management of climate actions, such as creating more awareness via enhanced data and methodologies, the overall action cannot be classified as a decarbonization lever since it does not directly contribute to GHG reduction. Table 16. Minimum Disclosure Requirement applicable for all presented actions Scope of actions The actions apply to FMO's value chain, with a focus on the downstream value chain. No actions regarding FMO's own operations are included, as these were found to be not material in the DMA. Time horizon The actions are formulated for the period until 2030, in line with our Strategy. Actions taken to provide for and cooperate in or support the provision of remedy (if applicable) N/A Progress of actions disclosed in prior periods As this is the first year we report within the structure of the ESRS, we do not report progress on actions from prior periods. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. Operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) (if required) No significant operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) related to implementing actions. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. 146 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As explained in section 'E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation', no key performance indicators from the EU Taxonomy can be linked to the resources required for the implementation of the actions described. More information is provided in the 'EU Taxonomy' section. E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation FMO has two targets related to the Policies and Actions described in the sections 'E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation' and 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies' respectively. Table 14 presented in the 'E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities' section shows which target relates to which IRO, policy and/or action. The table, therefore, indicates for each action whether there is a related target, thereby specifying whether and how the effectiveness of these actions are quantitatively tracked. Firstly, a GHG emission reduction target has been set in the form of the Power Generation Emission Reduction target. The target is set to reduce the financed scope 1 emissions in the power generation portfolio by 50 percent in 2030. Given the baseline value of 624 ktCO2e, this would imply an absolute reduction of 312 ktCO2e. This target will specifically contribute to reducing the financed absolute GHG emissions, i.e. the GHG emissions in scope 3 category 15 (Investments). The target has the same reporting boundary as the financed absolute GHG emissions. In 2024, the power generation portfolio emissions are 442 ktCO e, which is 42 percent of the financed scope 1 emissions and 8 percent of total financed absolute GHG emissions. In line with the ‘Financial Sector Climate Commitment Guideline on relevant financing, investments and action plans’ FMO has prioritized target setting for its power generation portfolio, being an emission-intensive sector. Secondly, a strategic target has been set in the form of the €10 billion SDG 13 target. FMO aims to have developed a portfolio of at least €10 billion in investments dedicated to SDG 13 goals by 2030. An ex- ante assessment is made to assess an investment’s potential impact and its related contribution to SDG 13, determining eligibility to receive the Green Label. The Green Label includes positive impact contributions to for instance climate change mitigation and adaptation and biodiversity. While it is no direct emission reduction target, the Green Label as a tool to steer towards FMO’s €10 billion SDG 13 target will contribute to reduced emissions in FMO’s investments portfolio and overall positive impact to SDG 13. Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. Since the Power Emission Reduction Target is the only target related to GHG emission reduction, disclosures requirements focusing on emission reductions are only applicable to this target. Table 14 in the 'E1 Impact, risks and opportunities' section indicates to which IRO the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target and the €10 billion SDG 13 target relates to. Table 17 provides information on the Power Generation Emission Reduction target, whereas the relevant details for the €10 billion SDG 13 target are presented in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Table 17. Minimum Disclosure Requirement for Power Generation Emission Reduction Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) 50 percent emission reduction in FMO's financed Scope 1 power generation emissions by 2030. Scope of target The power generation target GHG emissions include active investments that have production of electricity (NACE code 35.11) as their main economic activity. They are calculated based on customers’ Scope 1 emissions, attributed in line with the PCAF Global Standard. The outstanding amounts include FMO-A, public funds and mobilized capital. Baseline value 624 ktCO2e Baseline year 2021 Application period 2021 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets None 2 147 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Methodologies and assumptions The target is based on a calculated 1.5oC pathway provided by the REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4 database, using the Orderly - net zero 2050 scenario for electricity. This scenario is broken down by region, and country income level (upper middle income, lower middle income, low income using World Bank categorization) within regions, using our best estimate of proxies where there is no perfect match. The REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4 database is a scenario of the NGFS, which has as its goal meeting the goals of the Paris agreement. REMIND-MAgPIE is a comprehensive Integrated Assessment Model that simulates the dynamics within and between the energy, land use, water, air pollution and health, economy, and climate systems. It has been assumed that the portfolio distribution at country-income level will remain constant up to 2030 compared to 2021. Moreover, power production growth projections are based on 2030 Strategy projections, including direct mobilized funds (average of ~8.0 percent p.a. between 2021-2030). Thereafter, a projection of 4 percent per year is used. For renewable energy customers without reported emissions data, the assumption is made that their scope 1 emissions are zero. Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) The REMIND-MagPIE scenario is based on the SSP2 scenario defined by the IPCC. Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the CAP, and while taking into consideration the expectations following FMO’s commitment to the Financial Sector commitment to the Dutch Climate Agreement. The CAP was discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting. Changes in target We include only scope 1 emissions, as this is the primary emission driver of power generation plants. For renewable energy customers without reported emissions data, the assumption is made that their scope 1 emissions are zero. In order to compare performance year-on-year, data is aligned according to reporting year to the extent possible. Given that this annual report is published in early 2025, not all 2024 customer data (e.g. emissions data) was available. As a result, the reported 2024 power generation emissions combines 2023 customer emissions data with 2024 portfolio data from FMO (e.g. outstanding amounts). The 2024 number will be finalized in next year’s annual report. The 2023 power generation emissions are, in principle, finalized in this annual report with a value of 510 ktCO2e, based on 2023 portfolio data and 2023 customer data. The baseline for the power generation target is restated in this Annual Report in line with the recalculation approach. The new baseline number is 624 ktCO2e (previous value was 582 ktCO2e). The reason is that emission factors were updated in an internal calculation tool. In order to ensure consistency between baseline and later years, emissions data for 2021 and 2022 was retroactively adjusted for customers where the tool was used – note the tool is not used if customers directly reported emissions. Performance The power generation target GHG emissions were 442 ktCO e in 2024, which is a 29 percent reduction compared to the 2021 baseline. The reduction is due to an overall decrease of our outstanding exposure in operational fossil fuel plants. FMO has set a GHG emission reduction target for financed scope 1 emissions in the power generation portfolio, as described in E1-4. While FMO aims to be net zero by 2050, FMO has not yet set other reduction targets for financed scope 1, 2 and 3, therefore no information and data can be provided regarding such targets. This is due to the many unknowns ahead including how climate change itself will evolve, how our markets and customers will respond, lack of data and what solutions are needed and effective. We seek to carefully balance our climate objectives with customer- or location-specific social and environmental considerations, including the need for a just and inclusive transition. FMO will focus in the short-term on striving to align financial flows with 1.5oC aligned activities and is working on an approach to measure this. FMO will consider setting additional targets to further align financial flows. We will continue to improve our data collection, including at the level of our customers, and use it to assess and monitor our progress, as a component of our climate action project workstream. The progress made regarding the Power Generation Reduction Emission Target has been disclosed in table 17. The baseline value is considered representative as there are no indications that for the power generation portfolio the activities covered and influences from external factors in the base year were significantly different to other years. Table 17 provides information on the scientific base used to define the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target. Since no other targets for GHG emission reduction exist, no other progress can be disclosed, nor can information be provided on how it has been ensured that the baseline value of such targets is representative in terms of activities covered and influences from external factors. 2 148 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"The decarbonization levers of FMO are defined in the section ' E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation'. The Power Generation Emission Reduction target is part of the lever ‘Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals’. Refer to table 17 for information on the quantitative contribution to GHG emission reduction and the definition of the target, for which one scenario has been used. The €10 billion SDG 13 target is part of the decarbonization lever ‘Increasing climate investments and support to our customers’, supporting mitigation of and adaptation to climate change. Because of the nature of this target, no quantitative contribution to GHG emission reduction can be provided for this target. More details on how the decarbonization levers and targets relate is provided in table 14 in the 'E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities' section. E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Table 18 provides the previous year and the reporting period's emissions. The previous year emissions were restated in line with our recalculation approach. The previously reported value for the total financed GHG absolute emissions (8,403 ktCO2e) was recalculated to 5,468 ktCO2e. The decrease is mainly due to the use of a new JIM version (3.1.6), which includes updated economic emissions factors based on an updated GTAP database. Compared to the restated previous year emissions, total GHG emissions increased in the reporting period mainly due to an extended methodological coverage for scope 3 category 15 GHG emissions (i.e. sector breakdown adjustments). For more details, please refer to the ‘FMO methodology for reporting financed GHG emissions and jobs’, available on FMO’s website. Even though emissions in scope 1 and 2 from FMO’s own operations were found not to be material, these have been added for completeness and consistency with previously reported emissions. Milestones and targets have not been defined and are therefore left blank. FMO did set a target to reduce emissions in its power generation portfolio, which is described in section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. The excluded scope 3 categories are indicated in the following table with ‘N/A’. These categories are excluded because they are not expected to be material for FMO. The upstream scope 3 categories 1-5 are not relevant as they only pertain to goods and serviced purchased for FMO’s one office building, scope 3 category 8 is not applicable as upstream leased assets (e.g. vehicles and building) are included under Scope 1 and 2, and the downstream scope 3 categories 9-14 are not applicable because FMO’s operations do not include sold physical products, downstream leased assets or franchises. Table 18. Overview of total GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year Comparative (N-1) N % N / N-1 2025 2030 -2050 Annual % target / Base year Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (ktCO2eq) 0.08 0.06 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 0 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (ktCO2eq) 0.43 0.52 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (ktCO2eq) 0.03 0.03 Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (ktCO2eq) 5,473 5,861 1. Purchased goods and services N/A N/A 2. Capital goods N/A N/A 3. Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) N/A N/A 4. Upstream transportation and distribution N/A N/A 5. Waste generated in operations N/A N/A 6. Business traveling 4.84 5.26 149 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"7. Employee commuting 0.84 0.52 8. Upstream leased assets N/A N/A 9. Downstream transportation N/A N/A 10 Processing of sold products N/A N/A 11. Use of sold products N/A N/A 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A N/A 13. Downstream leased assets N/A N/A 14. Franchises N/A N/A 15. Investments 5,467 5,855 Total GHG emissions (location-based) (ktCO2eq) 5,473 5,861 Total GHG emissions (market-based) (ktCO2eq) 5,473 5,861 The scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are calculated for the consolidated accounting group using the operational control approach. FMO does not have operational control over any investees that are not fully consolidated in the financial statements, such as associates, joint ventures and unconsolidated subsidiaries, and therefore exposures towards these entities are reported under scope 3 category 15. The following graph shows the financed absolute emissions under scope 3 category 15 per strategic sector and emissions scope. Figure 3. Financed absolute GHG emissions under scope 3 category 15 per strategic sector (in ktCO e) Table 19a shows the total overview of financed emissions under scope 3 category 15. Table 19b disaggregates the financed emissions under scope 3 category 15 per strategic sector, funding source, product and emissions scope. Table 19a. Overview of financed absolute emissions under scope 3 category 15 (totals) Financed emissions ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score Scope 1 1,042.5 96.6 99.5% 52.6% 3.5 Scope 2 337.1 31.4 98.8% 15.1% 3.5 Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 1,379.5 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services 1,508.0 140.7 98.9% 12.1% 3.7 Scope 3 - Investments 2,967.4 527.8 98.3% 6.5% 4.6 Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 5,854.9 2 150 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
". Table 19b. Overview of financed emissions under scope 3 category 15 per strategic sector, funding source, product and emissions scope Financed emissions*** AFW AFW AFW AFW AFW EN EN EN EN EN FI FI FI FI FI DIV DIV DIV DIV DIV Source* Product Scope ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score Scope 1 FMO- A** Debt 146.6 144.8 100.0% 33.9% 3.3 326.2 216.8 98.5% 94.3% 3.7 30.8 9.7 100.0% 1.7% 3.5 14.2 64.4 100.0% 28.3% 3.6 Scope 1 FMO- A** Equity 41.5 267.3 100.0% 3.7% 3.4 132.4 385.5 99.8% 61.6% 3.3 7.1 7.6 100.0% 0.7% 3.7 145.4 154.4 98.4% 11.6% 3.5 Scope 1 PF Debt 28.8 139.1 100.0% 18.4% 3.2 19.9 130.1 100.0% 0.5% 4.2 9.7 56.5 100.0% 0.3% 4.2 6.8 858.8 100.0% 26.5% 3.4 Scope 1 PF Equity 6.9 161.4 100.0% 21.9% 3.0 7.6 84.5 95.8% 93.3% 4.0 4.9 22.3 100.0% 1.8% 3.3 22.3 148.8 99.6% 0.6% 4.3 Scope 1 MOB Debt 40.0 125.0 100.0% 49.7% 2.9 50.0 167.2 100.0% 99.5% 3.7 0.8 0.9 100.0% 43.7% 3.0 0.6 207.6 100.0% 100.0% 2.0 Scope 1 MOB Equity 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 1 Total Total 263.7 151.8 100.0% 29.5% 3.2 536.1 224.3 98.9% 83.2% 3.7 53.4 10.0 100.0% 1.9% 3.5 189.3 143.1 98.9% 12.4% 3.6 Scope 2 FMO- A** Debt 92.6 91.5 100.0% 6.6% 3.4 36.8 25.0 96.2% 5.2% 3.9 36.5 11.5 100.0% 2.2% 3.5 12.0 54.7 100.0% 23.0% 3.7 Scope 2 FMO- A** Equity 7.0 45.1 100.0% 4.4% 3.8 7.7 22.5 99.7% 34.5% 3.4 12.3 13.2 100.0% 0.3% 3.7 73.3 78.8 97.6% 23.8% 3.5 Scope 2 PF Debt 10.6 51.5 100.0% 56.8% 3.2 2.4 15.7 100.0% 1.1% 4.2 3.2 18.6 100.0% 1.9% 4.2 0.2 28.1 100.0% 2.8% 3.4 Scope 2 PF Equity 0.9 20.1 100.0% 36.7% 3.1 0.4 6.6 90.4% 13.1% 4.0 3.5 15.8 100.0% 2.0% 3.2 3.5 23.4 99.0% 4.4% 4.3 Scope 2 MOB Debt 21.3 66.7 100.0% 40.5% 3.0 6.7 22.5 98.0% 45.0% 3.7 5.9 7.1 100.0% 5.5% 3.0 0.1 33.9 100.0% 100.0% 2.0 Scope 2 MOB Equity 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 2 Total Total 132.4 76.2 100.0% 16.2% 3.3 54.0 23.2 97.1% 14.2% 3.8 61.4 11.5 100.0% 2.1% 3.5 89.2 68.0 98.2% 22.9% 3.6 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services FMO- A** Debt 474.7 468.9 100.0% 14.6% 3.7 221.8 150.6 96.2% 0.0% 4.0 98.6 31.0 100.0% 0.8% 3.6 24.5 111.3 100.0% 0.0% 4.2 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services FMO- A** Equity 41.4 266.6 100.0% 0.9% 4.1 40.0 117.1 99.7% 0.9% 3.5 30.5 32.5 100.0% 0.1% 3.7 195.0 209.4 98.3% 6.6% 3.9 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services PF Debt 53.2 257.6 100.0% 1.9% 3.9 27.3 178.3 100.0% 23.1% 4.2 13.8 79.7 100.0% 3.0% 4.2 1.2 149.1 100.0% 0.6% 3.4 151 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services PF Equity 4.1 113.4 99.3% 15.8% 3.5 9.9 146.4 90.4% 0.0% 4.2 20.7 94.0 100.0% 1.3% 3.2 32.7 218.3 99.0% 11.3% 4.3 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services MOB Debt 172.7 539.7 100.0% 49.9% 3.6 30.2 101.2 98.0% 0.1% 3.9 14.7 17.8 100.0% 6.8% 3.1 1.2 418.6 100.0% 0.0% 4.0 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services MOB Equity 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services Total Total 746.1 431.1 99.9% 21.1% 3.8 329.1 141.1 97.1% 2.0% 3.9 178.3 33.4 100.0% 1.4% 3.6 254.5 194.0 98.7% 6.5% 4.0 Scope 3 - Investments FMO- A** Debt 10.5 200.0 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 1,605.3 522.1 97.3% 7.8% 4.5 0.1 109.1 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 Scope 3 - Investments FMO- A** Equity 0.0 0.0 100.0% N/A 5.0 4.0 436.6 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 493.8 536.8 100.0% 1.4% 4.9 38.6 141.8 99.0% 0.0% 5.0 Scope 3 - Investments PF Debt 0.1 20.7 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 100.8 699.4 94.1% 1.7% 4.8 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 3 - Investments PF Equity 0.0 0.8 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 0.0 0.3 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 255.1 1,187.8 97.0% 0.7% 4.9 12.4 175.5 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 Scope 3 - Investments MOB Debt 6.3 292.8 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 440.3 531.8 100.0% 12.8% 3.9 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 3 - Investments MOB Equity 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 3 - Investments Total Total 16.9 193.9 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 4.0 433.4 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 2,895.3 558.8 98.0% 6.7% 4.5 51.1 148.6 99.3% 0.0% 5.0 * FMO-A = FMO consolidated; PF = public funds; MOB - direct mobilized funds ** The scope of consolidation for the sustainability statement is equal to the scope of consolidation for the financial statements. For blended finance programs like DFCD, LUF & FMO Ventures, we disaggregate scope 3 category 15 emissions according to the funding source. *** AFW = Agribusiness, Food & Water, EN = Energy, FI = Financial Institutions, DIV = Diverse sectors 152 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"No significant changes have taken place in the definition of what constitutes the reporting undertaking and its value chain. The financed emission calculations have benefitted from data improvements and methodological refinements compared to the previous Annual Report. The adjustments are elaborated upon in the FMO methodology for reporting financed GHG emissions and jobs, which is available on FMO’s website. FMO follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard to report its GHG emissions scopes 1, 2 and 3. The absolute GHG emissions from FMO’s own operations are calculated based on measured data collected internally, such as information on commuting and flights and heating consumption of the FMO office in The Hague. To report on the scope 3 category 15 emissions (i.e. the financed absolute GHG emissions), FMO follows the Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry published by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF).26 The reporting boundary includes the debt and equity portfolio at the time of reporting. The majority of FMO’s financed absolute GHG emissions are estimated through economic modelling using the Joint Impact Model (JIM). For more details, please refer to the FMO methodology for reporting financed GHG emissions and jobs, which is available on FMO’s website. The JIM version used in this sustainability statement has not been externally validated. The upcoming JIM version is undergoing an external validation process, but the planned release of that version was not in time for this report. Emissions are reported for the entire portfolio based on the actual results of the investments using the most recent data available. For the Annual Report 2024, this means that numbers reflect annual results of investments for 2024 to the extent that information is available, and otherwise 2023 (or older) numbers. Emissions are recorded per year. In other words, if the reporting date of the client is 31 March 2024, the data is reported for the year 2024 and similarly for customers where the reporting date is 31 December 2024. When investments are no longer in the portfolio as of 31 December 2024, we no longer include emissions of these customers. Information about the percentage of different contractual instruments within scope 2 is not provided, since scope 2 emissions were found to be non-material by the DMA. The percentage of financed emissions calculated using primary data is disclosed in table 19a and 19b. The tables also include information on the coverage percentage and the PCAF data quality score. Biogenic emissions of CO2 from combustion or bio-degradation of biomass that occur in value chain are included in the gross scope 3 emissions, as data limitations do not allow to disclose these separately. This is the first year that FMO reports on its GHG emissions per net revenue. As such, no comparative value or marginal change is provided in table 20. The net revenue figure was calculated by summing the line items 'Interest income from financial instruments measured at AC', 'Interest income from financial instruments measured at FVPL', 'Dividend income', 'Fee and commission income' and 'Remuneration for services rendered' from the financial statements (see 'Consolidated statement of profit or loss' in the 'Consolidated Financial Statements' chapter). Table 20. GHG intensity per net revenue GHG intensity per net revenue Comparative N % N / N-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/MEUR) N/A 9,294 N/A Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/MEUR) N/A 9,293 N/A 26 PCAF (2022). The Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard Part A: Financed Emissions. Second Edition. 153 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E1-7 GHG Removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits In the downstream value chain, FMO invests in projects that contribute to GHG removals and storage. As per FMO’s 2030 Strategy, Climate Action Plan and Forestry Strategy, we will increase our contribution to GHG removals and storage, by investing more in, for example, forestry and nature-based solutions. For instance, FMO’s Forestry strategy was launched in 2023 and aims to grow investments in forestry, including nature-based solutions, sustainable natural forest management, and greenfield plantations. Projects that contribute to GHG removals and storage are moreover eligible for FMO’s Green Label. FMO does not yet quantitatively report on emission removals through these activities. This is something that is being worked on for future reporting. Even though operational emissions were found to not be material, FMO offsets its operational emissions from business travel by investing in a mix of different carbon credits. In 2024, FMO has offset 5,869 tonnes of CO2eq, using an equal split of VCS Punjab Agroforestry India credits and VCS Pichacay LFG Equador credits. It should be noted that no carbon credits are used to claim emission reductions towards the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target. The offset emissions are also not deducted from the operational emissions reported in section 'E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions'. In other words, we report our gross operational emissions. Within our own value chain, FMO invests in activities that contribute to carbon removals, including forestry investments. Currently, we are choosing to not quantitatively assess the GHG removals through our investment portfolio as we are still waiting on global standards to become clear before deciding on a sequestration tool/methodology. This includes, for example, the GHG Protocol on Land Sector and Removals Guidance (expected Q1 2025) and SBTi FINZ standard (expected Q1 2025). The carbon credits FMO acquires are all retired on a yearly basis. These carbon credits do not originate from FMO's customers and are therefore outside FMO's value chain. FMO plans to keep offsetting its market-based operation emissions by purchasing carbon credits, but there are no contractual agreements for future purchase of carbon credits. FMO has committed to be net-zero by 2050. Our plan is to achieve this by (1) reducing the emission intensity at portfolio and investment levels; and (2) increasing investments in carbon removals (primarily forestry), so that when all carbon equivalent emissions – positive and negative - are aggregated in 2050, our portfolio emissions are ‘net zero’. Pathways regarding these carbon removals are not developed yet, as elaborated on in section 'E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation'. FMO will focus in the short-term on striving to align financial flows with 1.5oC aligned activities and is working on an approach to measure this. FMO will consider setting additional targets on the alignment of financial flows. We will continue to improve our data collection, including at the level of our customers, and use it to assess our progress, as a component of our climate action workstream ahead. FMO strives to remain climate neutral in all its operational activities, through energy efficiency, sustainable energy procurement and compensation through the use of carbon credits. FMO's operational emission neutralization initiative does not affect the set reduction targets because carbon credits or removals do not count as emission reductions. Moreover, FMO's material emissions take place in the downstream value chain. While FMO's operational emissions are not subject to an emission reduction target, they are considered part of its net zero ambition. FMO entity specific metrics – climate change In addition to ESRS-specific metrics on emissions, FMO reports on Green-labelled new investments and financed avoided GHG emissions. Green-labelled new investments The Green Label Guidelines provide criteria and a methodology to assess new investments for their eligibility for FMO’s Green Label. The Green Label is a strategic steering tool and a proxy for us to measure progress against the €10 billion SDG 13 target and includes, but is not limited, to climate 154 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"change. The metric disclosure for Green-labelled total new investments is presented in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Financed avoided GHG emissions Avoided emissions are the reduction in systemic emissions resulting from a project, product, or service compared to a counterfactual scenario. For example, this can be emissions avoided by renewable power production that is assumed to displace fossil fuel-based power plants, or emissions avoided through the protection of forests against illegal logging. The financed avoided GHG emissions metric aims to quantify our contributions to climate change mitigation activities. A significant proportion of avoided emissions was attributable to our debt and equity portfolios in on-grid renewable power projects. While this metric is not defined under the CSRD, financed avoided emissions is a key entity-specific metric for FMO and further defined in Table 21. Table 22 disaggregates the financed avoided emissions per strategic sector, funding source, product and project type. Table 21. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for Metrics for Financed Avoided Emissions Methodology and assumptions GHG avoidance for on-grid renewable power projects is calculated as the annual electricity production during the latest available reporting year, multiplied by the country emission factors in accordance with the International Financial Institution (IFI) harmonized list of emission factors (version 3.2). The financed avoided GHG emissions are reported and attributed in line with the PCAF Global Standard, except we report avoided emissions beyond the renewable power portfolio. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) N/A Unit ktCO2eq 2024 2,134 2023 (restated) 1,940 Restatement of information Unverifiable data was identified for one customer that exceeded the significance threshold by itself. In addition, an error was identified in the data processing whereby the avoided emissions for one customer were omitted. Previously reported figure for 2023 was 2,061 compared with the new figure 1,940. This represents a 6 percent decrease. Table 22. 2024 results on Financed Avoided Emissions AFW*** EN*** FI*** DIV*** Project type Source* Product ktCO2e ktCO2e ktCO2e ktCO2e On-grid renewable power FMO-A** Debt - 834 - 23 On-grid renewable power FMO-A** Equity - 27 - - On-grid renewable power PF Debt - 31 - - On-grid renewable power PF Equity - 5 - - On-grid renewable power MOB Debt - 301 - - On-grid renewable power MOB Equity - - - - On-grid renewable power Total Total - 1,198 - 23 Other FMO-A** Debt 70 52 - - Other FMO-A** Equity - 254 - 112 Other PF Debt 50 279 - - Other PF Equity 1 66 - 7 Other MOB Debt - 22 - - Other MOB Equity - - - - Other Total Total 121 673 - 119 * FMO-A = FMO consolidated; PF = public funds; MOB - direct mobilized funds ** The scope of consolidation for the sustainability statement is equal to the scope of consolidation for the financial statements. For blended finance programs like DFCD LUF & FMO Ventures, we disaggregate financed avoided emissions according to funding source. *** AFW = Agribusiness, Food & Water, EN = Energy, FI = Financial Institutions, DIV = Diverse sectors 155 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 05
"Consolidated statement of financial position For the year ended December 31, 2024 Before profit appropriation Notes 2024 2023 Assets Banks (1) 43,087 49,273 Current accounts with State funds and other programs (2) 1,336 488 Short-term deposits (3) -of which: amortized cost 1,111,886 1,220,359 -of which: fair value through profit or loss 369,481 613,031 Other receivables (4) 18,321 33,677 Interest-bearing securities (5) -of which: amortized cost 481,798 539,708 -of which: fair value through profit or loss 107,596 - Derivative financial instruments (6) 126,339 197,150 Loans to the private sector (7) -of which: amortized cost 5,190,518 4,295,723 -of which: fair value through profit or loss 652,061 587,940 Current tax receivables (31) 13,297 29,634 Wage tax assets 72 - Equity investments (9) -of which: fair value through OCI 201,287 167,074 -of which: fair value through profit or loss 2,355,626 2,193,771 Investments in associates and joint ventures (10) 372,073 308,179 Property, plant and equipment (11) 16,365 19,859 Intangible assets (12) 26,445 15,325 Deferred income tax assets (31) 9,075 11,230 Total assets 11,096,663 10,282,421 Liabilities Short-term credits (13) 216,912 97,114 Current accounts with State funds and other programs (14) 93 43 Derivative financial instruments (6) 471,386 418,839 Other financial liabilities (15) -of which: fair value through profit or loss 121,715 74,003 Debentures and notes (16) 6,335,981 6,060,683 Wage tax liabilities 62 771 Accrued liabilities (17) 38,683 29,498 Other liabilities (18) 18,861 35,821 Provisions (19) 36,780 44,922 Deferred income tax liabilities (31) 510 7,943 Total liabilities 7,240,983 6,769,637 Shareholders’ equity Share capital 9,076 9,076 Share premium reserve 29,272 29,272 Contractual reserve 3,008,465 2,721,823 Development fund 657,981 657,981 Fair value reserve 86,758 65,208 Actuarial result pensions -4,380 -9,670 Translation reserve 31,030 8,092 Other reserves 26,887 28,850 Undistributed result 10,591 2,152 Shareholders’ equity (parent) 3,855,680 3,512,784 Non-controlling interests - - Total shareholders’ equity (20) 3,855,680 3,512,784 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 11,096,663 10,282,421 231 Financial Statements | all amounts stated in tables are in € x 1,000 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Consolidated statement of profit or loss For the year ended December 31, 2024 Notes 2024 2023 Income Interest income from financial instruments measured at AC 514,136 473,938 Interest income from financial instruments measured at FVPL 42,209 58,653 Interest expenses from financial instruments measured at AC -237,423 -170,269 Interest expenses from financial instruments measured at FVPL -92,708 -140,756 Interest expenses on leases -97 -122 Net interest income (21) 226,117 221,444 Dividend income (22) 29,171 34,481 Results from equity investments (23) 138,429 -39,814 Total results from equity investments 167,600 -5,333 Fee and commission income 9,672 7,737 Fee and commission expense -13,726 -14,202 Net fee and commission income (24) -4,054 -6,465 Results from financial transactions (25) 10,604 7,629 Remuneration for services rendered (26) 35,499 31,335 Gains and losses due to derecognition (27) 1,863 2,464 Other operating income (28) - 79 Total other income 47,966 41,507 Total income 437,629 251,153 Operating expenses Staff costs (29) -144,964 -127,460 Administrative expenses (30) -36,541 -39,731 Depreciation and impairment of PP&E and intangible assets (11), (12) -8,618 -9,634 Other operating expenses -572 -775 Total operating expenses -190,695 -177,600 Impairments on Interest-bearing instruments 27 -8 Loans (7), (8) 17,433 -38,622 Loan commitments (34) -164 -1,259 Guarantees issued (34) 8,884 243 Total impairments 26,180 -39,646 Results on associates/joint ventures Share in the result of associates/joint ventures 39,483 26,065 Profit/(loss) before taxation 312,597 59,972 Income tax (31) -15,363 4,950 Net profit/(loss) 297,234 64,922 Net profit/(loss) attributable to Owners of the parent company 297,234 64,922 Non controlling interest - - Net profit/(loss) 297,234 64,922 232 all amounts stated in tables are in € x 1,000 | Financial Statements Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended December 31, 2024 Notes 2024 2023 Net profit/(loss) 297,234 64,922 Other comprehensive income Share of other comprehensive income of associates / joint ventures due to exchange differences 22,938 -9,452 Income tax effect - - Items to be reclassified to profit and loss (32) 22,938 -9,452 Fair value reserve of equity instruments at FVOCI 34,093 16,341 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans (19) 7,129 -4,227 Income tax effect -14,382 -3,126 Items not reclassified to profit and loss 26,840 8,988 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax (32) 49,778 -464 Total comprehensive income 347,012 64,458 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent company 347,012 64,458 Non-controlling interests - - Total comprehensive income 347,012 64,458 233 Financial Statements | all amounts stated in tables are in € x 1,000 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"loans, guarantees, equity and technical assistance to our customers (our financing products), monitoring the portfolio's health (credit risk, impact, customer satisfaction, and compliance), and managing the overall investment lifecycle. Enabling activities to support our core operations include strategy setting, product management, policy and compliance definition, risk management, external reporting, sustainability and impact management, and various corporate functions like IT, finance, procurement as well as human resources as FMO acts as an international employer to the people that work for our organization. We need upstream shareholders and public and private investors to provide capital as well as key partners and key suppliers to support us in our business model. Our upstream value chain activities are, therefore, focused on attracting and mobilizing funds and capital to scale up our development impact. We use public funds to de-risk investments and to be able to attract private capital. We bring in commercial investors through syndicated loans or fund management. Our public investment partners include: the Dutch Government, the UK Government, the EC and the Green Climate Fund (GCF). Mobilization activities include loan syndications, participations by several private debt funds that FMO Investment Management (FMO IM) advises for and through unfunded risk participations by commercial parties such as commercial banks. In addition, we work with suppliers that provide goods and services. We only want to work with trustworthy suppliers and have put in place a due diligence process in line with the Dutch Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act (Wwft). This process applies to new or existing suppliers related to our main activities, such as consultants, legal advisors, government intermediaries and/or providers of critically outsourced services. This is set out in FMO’s Procurement and Outsourcing Policy. ESRS 2 Interests and views of stakeholders We engage with stakeholders for various purposes: to create partnerships, to invest together, to harmonize approaches, and/or to seek insights that inform our policies and approaches. In addition, we value the input we receive from various stakeholders on our (proposed) investments. Our stakeholders bring critical perspectives, alert us to different viewpoints, provide us with critical feedback, and challenge us to be more transparent and accountable as an organization. Through stakeholder dialogues we aim to better understand each other’s perspectives and find ways to strengthen our collaboration. These dialogues help us to reflect on and enhance our risk assessment practices. Overall, most stakeholders engage with us because of the impact we aim to achieve through our investments. FMO stakeholders and stakeholder management Our customers, the State of the Netherlands, shareholders, employees, investors, NGOs, supervisors, other DFIs/IFIs and regulators are among our most important stakeholders. Engagement can take various forms, from day-to-day, business-as-usual engagement to more strategic and planned engagements, such as regular meetings, surveys, forums and stakeholder dialogues. FMO distinguishes between three stakeholder groups: 1) FMO’s own workforce, 2) external stakeholders FMO engages with at an investment level and 3) corporate stakeholder groups. 1. FMO’s own workforce include employees with an employment contract with FMO or a regional office subsidiary and contractors, consultants and secondees. Non-employees include a variety of individuals such as contractors (including ZZP), consultants and secondees. All managers, directors and Management Board members are responsible for employee engagement. 2. External stakeholders include customers, local communities and employees employed by our customers as well as other (positively/negatively) affected individuals. The relationships with our customers are managed by FMO’s investment teams, including ESG and impact specialists. 3. Corporate stakeholder groups include private investors such as FMO shareholders, syndicated partners and investors in FIM funds, the Dutch government (also as a shareholder), the Dutch Parliament, supervisor and regulator, NGOs, media and international partners (the EC, Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), and (European) Development Finance Institutions ((E)DFIs). These relationships are overseen by the following internal functions within FMO: Corporate Stakeholder Engagement, Risk, Partnerships for Impact and the Corporate Secretary. Policies FMO believes that transparency and accountability in its financing and investments are fundamental to fulfilling its development mandate. It allows us to improve our investment decisions and helps us be transparent to our stakeholders about whether FMO is achieving what it intends. 115 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"To facilitate this, FMO adheres to a Customer Disclosure Policy, outlining the scope and type of information that it makes available to the public. In addition to the disclosure of its annual reports, press releases and corporate- and policy-related disclosure, FMO also discloses selected relevant information about its investments and financing, both prior to (explicitly inviting comments from the stakeholder community), and after contracting. Table 3. Minimum disclosure requirements for Customer Disclosure Policy Scope of policy All investments involving FMO debt and equity transactions Accountable body Management Board Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) IFC PS, EDFI’s Principles for Responsible Financing of Sustainable development Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) Stakeholders are invited to provide comments on our investments, prior to and after contracting Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) Customer Disclosure Policy is publicly available on our website As a DFI, we are sensitive to the social context and environment in which we are active. The businesses and projects we invest in have an important impact on local communities and society at large. Therefore, we integrate stakeholder considerations and information, based on consultation with stakeholders (including affected communities, in line with the IFC PS), into our investment decision- making and we monitor whether decisions will further contribute to the quality and positive impact of FMO’s investments and also ensure community support. For more information, see our Sustainability Policy. FMO makes a distinction between project-related complaints and general complaints. General complaints can be communicated in writing. For project-related complaints, FMO has implemented an Independent Complaints Mechanism (ICM) and accompanying procedures. The ICM ensures the right to be heard for complainants who feel affected by an FMO-financed operation, facilitating dispute resolution and assisting FMO in drawing lessons learned. The ICM Policy describes the structure and governance of the complaints procedure, which allows affected external parties to file a complaint concerning a project financed by FMO. For more information on the project-related complaints procedure, refer to 'S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels to raise concerns'. Table 4. Minimum disclosure requirements for Independent Complaints Mechanism Policy Scope of policy The mechanism applies to FMO-financed operations Accountable body Management Board Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) IFC PS, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) We invite stakeholders to give their views on new (draft) ICM Policy via public consultation before finalizing the policy. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) ICM policy can be found publicly on our website FMO reports on the number admissible complaints received through the ICM. Details of this entity- specific metric and results are included in the following table. In 2024, no complaint was found admissible by the ICM's Independent Expert Panel relating to non-respect of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Table 5. Minimum disclosure requirements for metrics: new admissible complaints received Methodology and assumptions Number of complaints filed with the ICM that were declared admissible by the Independent Expert Panel (IEP) are defined as 'New admissible complaints received'. When the IEP groups several complaints pertaining to the same project as one case, this is treated as one complaint. An admissible complaint is a complaint for which the IEP has decided that it meets the admissibility criteria. These are specified in the ICM policy, which can be accessed on our website. 116 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit Number 2024 0 admissible complaints 2023 0 admissible complaints Stakeholder engagement and outcomes We are in constant dialogue with various stakeholders. Throughout the years, at a corporate level we have taken the outcomes of stakeholder engagement into account in, among other things: FMO’s strategy development (2030 Strategy: Pioneer-Develop-Scale) FMO’s double materiality assessment FMO’s Sustainability Policy FMO’s position statements FMO’s Customer Disclosure Policy The Independent Complaints Mechanism FMO’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) During the development of our long-term 2030 Strategy Pioneer – Develop – Scale we consulted internal stakeholders (including FMO’s employees) and external stakeholders. For this consultation, meetings were held with the Dutch Ministry of Finance, Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs, DNB, NGOs, (E)DFIs, private banks, commercial finance partners, and the European Commission (EC). At the start of the strategic development process, FMO collected the key topics and expectations of these stakeholders, which was part of the foundation for the further development of the long-term strategy. The Dutch Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Finance provided their vision during various stages of the strategy development process. During the materiality assessment, FMO takes the views and interests of stakeholders into account. We do this either by consulting them directly or integrating knowledge about stakeholder interests coming out of regular stakeholder engagement activities as described in this section. When developing or updating policy statements, we invite stakeholders to give their views on new policies and position statements that guide our investment process and decision-making. For example, in 2016, we developed a comprehensive Sustainability Policy, taking into account more than 300 comments from various parties from society, government and customers. We are active participants in a number of multi-stakeholder dialogues. At an investment level, the outcomes of stakeholder engagement are taken into account via our due diligence process. Stakeholder and community engagement is a key principle embedded within the IFC PS. This means that FMO is committed to actively engaging with affected stakeholders and local communities throughout the project lifecycle in order to understand their concerns, incorporate their perspectives into decision-making processes, and mitigate any negative impacts on them. On an ad-hoc basis, FMO also engages with value chain workers as part of its monitoring. For more information refer to section 'ESRS 2 - IRO management' and specific information on this type of stakeholder engagement in the sections 'S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers', 'S3-2 Processes for engaging with affected communities' and 'S4-2 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users'. The Integrity and Issue Management Committee (IIMC) is a sub-committee of the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) and is appointed by the Management Board. The IIMC monitors and advises on designated projects, transactions, and customers on a corporate and project level, including where applicable complaints related matters brought forward via the ICM for proposed, active and completed/ exited investments. The Management Board is informed of the views and interests of FMO project affected stakeholders on a case-by-case basis and the Supervisory Board (through the Management Board) via quarterly periodic briefs. For example, when there is a material impact voiced via 1) ex-ante (prior to commitment) disclosure questions; 2) NGO questions; or 3) (ongoing) complaints with the ICM. 117 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"FMO regularly conducts employee surveys to gauge employee satisfaction and engagement levels. For more information on how we engage with our employees please refer to the sub-chapter 'S1 - Own Workforce'. Future steps towards our stakeholder dialogues In 2024, we worked on an outline policy for effective dialogue with the relevant corporate stakeholders, which will be published as a position statement in the first quarter of 2025. This policy will enable FMO to effectively decide: (i) if engagement is needed for specific topics, (ii) which stakeholders should be involved, (iii) what the timelines are for this engagement process and (iv) how the process should be organized. Currently, the ICM Policy is being revised. Input from stakeholders will be sought by a public consultation of the draft policy, to enhance and clarify the policy and increase the trust and buy-in of stakeholders. Advocacy NGOs are especially interested in the ICM because they use it to escalate their complaints. NGOs that have requested to be able to provide input at an early stage – before public consultation – have been engaged with to share their views. ESRS 2 IRO management FMO manages material sustainability-related matters, including material impacts, risks and opportunities, through various policies and actions. Material impacts, risks and opportunities identified for S1 and G1 relate to FMO's own operations and are, therefore, managed by FMO's Human Resources and Compliance departments. Material impacts, risks and opportunities identified for E1, E3, E4, S2, S3 and S4 relate to FMO's customers and investments (downstream value chain) and are managed as part of our investment process. In addition, FMO has developed an impact management framework to ensure it takes an integrated approach to managing positive and negative impacts – potential and actual – as well as the financial risks that may result from the negative impacts in its investment portfolio. Our management approach to our own workforce and business conduct are described in the S1 and G1 topical statements, respectively. Our approach to impact management is common across E1, E3, E4, S2, S3 and S4 and is described in the following section. Negative impacts and the resulting financial risks are managed through ESG management practices. Negative impacts on people and the environment could result in financial risks, leading to, for example, financial (remediation, legal) costs to FMO or its customer, jeopardize access to capital for FMO (from external investors), jeopardizing the license to operate, jeopardizing shareholder relations or reputational damage. This is further described in the paragraphs relating to ESG management. Positive impacts are managed through allocating and structuring capital towards the SDGs, mostly through our Reducing Inequalities (RI) and Green Labels. This is further described in the paragraphs relating to impact management. Figure 2. Impact management framework Strategy and policy FMO’s impact and sustainability commitments are outlined in FMO’s Sustainability Policy, which was first approved by FMO’s Management Board in 2016. The policy is complemented by our exclusion list, 118 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"position statements on – among other things – human rights, land governance, fossil fuels and coal, and impact and ESG for financial intermediaries. Together, these documents form the Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU), available on our website. FMO requires, that all customers comply with applicable environmental, social and human rights laws in their home and host countries. In addition, FMO upholds (inter)national standards, including the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Client Protection Principles (CPPs). In addition, FMO has adopted the IFC PS (2012) as its operating standard. FMO requires its customers to comply with these standards and in doing so to identify, prevent and mitigate negative social and environmental impacts. FMO’s Sustainability Policy and position statements apply to all our new investments. This includes both direct investments and investments through financial intermediaries. This policy is the foundation of our impact management framework and provides guidance for FMO’s internal processes. FMO considers this policy a living document. It will be updated based on lessons learned and input from FMO’s stakeholders. Our Sustainability Policy and position statements undergo targeted and public consultation with various relevant stakeholder groups (e.g. the Dutch government, DFI partners, (commercial) peers, (inter)national Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and think tanks, and relevant (industry) standard organizations) during the development process and every three years, are formally approved by the Management Board. Table 6. Minimum disclosure requirements for FMO’s Sustainability Policy Scope of policy The scope of this policy extends to FMO’s entire footprint. This includes FMO’s activities at the organizational level and new investments with respect to all products provided by FMO. The nature of the services FMO delivers can in some situations limit FMO’s level of influence. FMO will then apply this policy to the greatest extent possible. This Policy is the foundation of our sustainability management and provides guidance to FMO’s internal processes. This Sustainability Policy is the leading part of a broader Sustainability Policy Universe (see Annex 1 of the Policy) that also encompasses thematic and sectoral Position Statements that complement the Sustainability Policy and give further depth and content to the choices FMO makes. Accountable body Management Board with approval delegated to Impact and Sustainability Committee (ISCO) Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) As part of the Sustainability Policy, FMO upholds various (inter)national standards. They are listed in the policy, which is publicly available. With respect to the management of environmental and social impact, the primary standards that FMO upholds are the IFC PS and the associated World Bank Group Environmental Health and Safety Guidelines. They cover the larger part of the ESG requirements in the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises, which also reference the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) We invite stakeholders to give their views on new policies and position statements that guide our investment process and decision-making. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) Sustainability Policy Universe, as well as a document describing how FMO navigates dilemmas and issues are all published on FMO’s website. Allocate and structure capital FMO’s policy requirements are translated into internal investment criteria that are applied and assessed at the investment level where FMO assesses both the positive and negative impacts to define the boundaries of where we allocate capital. The exclusion lists and ESG risk appetite define the boundaries for negative impacts. Our labels highlight the potential that individual investments must contribute to certain principles and objectives. The RI and Green Labels help classify individual investments as per their ex-ante (prior to commitment) potential to materially contribute to SDG 10 Reducing Inequalities and SDG 13 Climate Action respectively, thereby allocating capital towards FMO’s strategic impact ambitions. 119 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"For each investment, FMO measures volume indicators (assets under management) which include FMO’s RI and Green-labelled total committed portfolio. Labelling processes are operationalized using FMO’s Sustainability Information System (SIS). Reducing Inequalities Label The RI Label steers toward investments that have the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to SDG 10. Two objectives underlie the RI Label: increase investment in least developed countries (reducing inequality between countries) and increase investment in inclusive growth (reducing inequality within countries). Each of these has a set of principles, definitions and criteria. We report on RI-labelled total new investments. More information on the 2024 performance results is provided in the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy' in the section 'Sector performance'. Table 7. Minimum disclosure requirements for RI-labelled total new investments Methodology and assumptions New investment is the aggregate commitment made to a customer in a specific reporting period by FMO and PIM Funds, and by private participants and other public participants directly mobilized by FMO. For the calculation of new investment per participant, the aggregate commitment is allocated to the participants based on their credit risk exposure to the customer. The RI Label is an SDG Label indicating an Instrument has the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to the SDG 10 objectives. Two objectives underlie the RI Label: increase investment in LDCs (reducing inequalities between countries) and increase investment in inclusive growth (reducing inequalities within countries, focusing on gender and youth). Each of these objectives has a set of principles, definitions and criteria. The RI percentage is the share of an investment that is approved for the RI Label. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit EUR million 2024 2,250 2023 1,140 Green Label The Green Label steers toward investments that have ex-ante potential to materially contribute to SDG 13. The Green Label is defined by FMO’s green principles, its objectives, and definitions that clarify FMO’s approach to meeting these objectives. We report on Green-labelled total new investments. More information on the 2024 performance results is provided in the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy' in the section 'Sector performance'. Table 8. Minimum disclosure requirements for Green-labelled total new investments Methodology and assumptions New investment is the aggregate commitment made to a customer in a specific reporting period by FMO and PIM Funds, and by private participants and other public participants directly mobilized by FMO. For the calculation of new investments per participant, the aggregate commitment is allocated to the participants based on their credit risk exposure to the customer. The Green Label is an SDG Label indicating an investment has the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to the SDG 13 objectives, including climate mitigation, climate adaptation and resilience, water, circular economy and pollution prevention and biodiversity. The Green percentage is the share of an Instrument that is approved for Green Label. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit EUR million 2024 1,460 2023 1,091 Customer value creation At the customer level, FMO creates impact by contributing to improving financial and non-financial customer (or prospect) value, through a range of activities. These include the provision of investment, 120 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"financial and non-financial advisory services, development contributions, and inherent contributions. In addition, FMO contributes by identifying and mitigating negative impacts, and through the improvement of ESG performance. FMO’s engagement to generate value for customers overall also adds value to the wider market, the respective sectors and the ecosystem, and supports mutually beneficial progress towards our RI and Green Label targets. The following are sub-components of the way we support value creation at the customer level. ESG management at customer level Our investments may, unintentionally, lead to negative impacts on people and the environment. FMO is exposed to financial risks resulting from our investment selection, the effectiveness of customers to manage their impacts and the effectiveness of FMO’s engagement therein. At FMO, ESG management covers the management of both negative impacts as well as potential financial risks. As part of its investment process, FMO screens and categorizes all customers according to their gross ESG risk profile (i.e. risk that is inherent to the activity to be financed irrespective of a customers’ ESG performance). Based on this screening, the following categorization of customer E&S risk profiles is determined: A and B+ (high risk), B (medium risk) and C (low risk) for direct investments; and ID-A (high risk), ID-B+ (high risk), ID-B (medium risk) and ID-C (low risk) for indirect exposure through debt and PE funds. An initial assessment of the corporate governance (CG) risk for a customer is also conducted, resulting in a CG risk classification. Further, customers are evaluated on their potential negative impacts as well as their ESG performance, i.e. their capacity to manage these. Note that in the case of direct investments, E&S impact is assessed at customer-level. For indirect exposure to FIs, E&S impact is assessed by considering the operations as well as the investments of the FI (i.e. on a portfolio level basis). In particular, the FI customers’ level of exposure to high E&S impact sectors is considered. Similarly, in the case of funds, the E&S risk categories of the underlying investments the fund is composed of are taken into consideration when determining the funds' E&S risk profiles. For high E&S risk customers, we conduct site visits and stakeholder engagement, with further ESG requirements defined and negotiated as needed. Dedicated ESG specialists within FMO engage actively with all high-risk customers. The level and exact focus of engagement depend on the type and severity of impact and/or the extent to which the identified impact pose a threat to the environment, communities, the customer and/or FMO. FMO assesses the customers’ performance in mitigating and managing ESG impacts against the IFC PS. For each applicable standard, FMO monitors the customer’s performance against the standards. Impacts that are not adequately managed by high-risk customers are considered a performance gap, and recorded as such. The performance is assessed against the standards and is used to set the ESG performance target, described in the section 'ESG management at portfolio level'. FMO accepts a limited gap in successful ESG management to our standards. This gap acknowledges residual risk posed by contextual and implementation challenges in our market. FMO ESG specialists work with customers to develop Environmental and Social Action Plans (ESAPs) and Corporate Governance Action Plans (CGAPs) to enhance customer ESG impact management processes and remediate these gaps. FMO’s Credit department evaluates the ESG impacts and performance of each financial proposal and prepares credit advice to guide the final investment decision. Upon approval, all customer contracts will include ESG requirements, and FMO monitors the implementation of these requirements by our customers (throughout the investment period) through regular contact and site visits, often supported by independent consultants. Customer compliance against the ESAP and CGAP, as well as closing of actions, is monitored as part of the Customer Credit Review (CCR) process. In addition, FMO monitors serious incidents as reported by our customers or underperformance that would warrant corrective actions. We follow up on each incident to ensure a robust root cause analysis is conducted and corrective action implemented. For FMO’s high ESG risk customers, we monitor our exposure through FMO’s proprietary SIS. The net ESG risk exposure is the customers’ gross risk exposure corrected for by the customer’s performance managing down the negative impact. The methodology used to track performance for these high-risk customers is described in table 11 for number of customers with E&S performance gaps in portfolio. 121 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"ESG performance tracking in SIS is integrated within the investment process and forms the basis of FMO’s ESG performance target. ESG performance is monitored and updated throughout the lifetime of the investment as part of the annual review cycle of each customer, enabling FMO to have an up-to-date portfolio-wide view of the ESG negative impacts in its portfolio. Impact management at customer level At FMO, different teams contribute to different core elements relating to the management of positive impacts. This includes defining the strategic impact ambition of an investment aligned with 2030 Strategy ambitions, providing methodological guidance and defining reporting frameworks (how to measure), gathering data from customers and other sources, and recording this data in FMO’s SIS; and aggregating and reporting this data internally and externally. To measure, report and monitor the development impact of transactions, deal teams work with customers to define how the investment supports the core SDGs. They select approximately one to three impact indicators that best capture the intended positive impact of that investment and establish baselines and (where possible) time-specific expected values for these indicators. During the annual review process, customers report on the indicators. FMO engages with other European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI) to harmonize indicators to measure impact and align requirements across DFIs for customers. FMO strives towards alignment vis-à- vis the Harmonized Indicators for Private Sector Operations (HIPSO), the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), and Impact Reporting and Investment Standards Plus. Monitor and manage impact at portfolio level At the portfolio level, FMO manages and steers towards positive and negative impacts. FMO measures volume indicators. Impact management at portfolio level The volume indicators include FMO’s RI and Green-labelled total committed portfolio. FMO has a 2030 target of €10 billion for investments that will contribute towards SDG 10 Reduced Inequalities and SDG 13 Climate Action. The labels are a strategic steering tool to this end. In addition, FMO has identified several metrics to measure FMO’s contributions to the SDGs. While these metrics will be monitored for broader impact management purposes or external reporting requirements, only the metrics with a target are used to steer towards our strategic impact objectives. Table 9. Minimum disclosure requirements for SDG 10 Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) By 2030, we aim to have an investment portfolio of at least €10 billion in SDG 10 by financing assets that contribute to our SDG 10 objectives. Scope of target SDG 10 investments in the total committed portfolio Baseline value €4.0 billion Baseline year 2021 Application period 2023 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: €5,000 million 122 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Methodologies and assumptions The target has been established following the intent to double FMO’s impact regarding SDG 10 compared to the baseline year 2021. In the absence of a single impact metric, we focused on doubling the size of the relevant portfolios. Setting the target involved a forecasting exercise of the portfolio and subsequent internal discussions. Key assumptions for this target are that FMO can contribute to reducing inequalities within and between countries by steering investments towards 1) least developed countries or 2) activities that support inclusive growth. Hence, an investment can receive an ex-ante RI Label if the investment takes place in, or funds are expected to flow predominantly to LDCs (aligned with SDG 10.9) and/or if the investment is expected to contribute to inclusive business practices or targets the bottom 40 percent of the population (SDG 10.1). Portfolio trajectories per department were forecast during the 2030 Strategy process and SDG10 targets were confirmed with investment directorates, based on past and expected performance. It should be noted that portfolio growth was forecasted using a stable EUR/ USD FX rate of 1.10 through 2030. An appreciating USD has a positive effect on our portfolio results. Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) NA Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy process. Key input to setting the target was the Corporate Evaluation of our performance on reducing inequalities in the years 2015-2020. The evaluation was concluded in 2021. The target and strategic focus were discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during the strategy process. This included the Dutch government, being the main shareholder, and multi- stakeholder dialogues held in the course of 2021. Changes in target In 2024, the RI Label was updated in line with updated market standards (e.g. 2X and the updated MDB Common Principles) and other market developments. Two new sub- categories were added to the reducing within country inequality label to align with the new 2x standards and to account for access to food as a basic goods and services for low-income populations. Performance There was a 42 percent increase in 2024 compared to 2023, to €6.1 billion. This means that the target of €5 billion that was set for 2024 was reached. For more information on key trends and drivers, refer to the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy', 'Sector performance'. Table 10. Minimum disclosure requirements for SDG 13 Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) By 2030, we aim to have an investment portfolio of at least €10 billion in SDG 13 by financing assets that contribute to our SDG 13 objectives Scope of target SDG 13 investments in the total committed portfolio Baseline value €4.1 billion Baseline year 2021 Application period 2023 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: €5,4 million Methodologies and assumptions The target has been established following the intent to double FMO’s impact regarding SDG 13 compared to the baseline year 2021. In the absence of a single impact metric, we focused on doubling the size of the relevant portfolios. Setting the target involved a forecasting exercise of the portfolio and subsequent internal discussions. The Green Label is applied ex-ante to investments that are identified to contribute to potential positive impact on climate. Portfolio trajectories per department were forecast during the 2030 Strategy process and SDG10 targets were confirmed with investment directorates, based on past and expected performance. It should be noted that portfolio growth was forecasted using a stable EUR/USD FX rate of 1.10 through 2030. An appreciating USD has a positive effect on our portfolio results. 123 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) The Green Label methodology is based on and largely aligned with the Multilateral Development Banks (MDB) common principles on climate finance tracking. This set of principles is not intended to be scientifically evidenced per se, but evidence (such as certification of agricultural products or buildings) is required to support that these investments meet the principles and definition as set out in FMO’s Green Label methodology. Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy which has been discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting, including the Dutch government as key stakeholder and shareholder. Changes in target The Green Label methodology was updated in 2024 in line with MDB Common Principles of Climate Mitigation Finance Tracking of October 2021 and the MDB Common Principles of Climate Adaptation Finance Tracking of 2022 and external market standards. Green Label objectives have also been revised splitting the 'other footprint reduction' objective into the objectives biodiversity, water security, circular economy and pollution prevention. Performance There was a 24 percent increase in 2024 compared to 2023, to €5.9 billion. This means that the target of €5.4 billion that was set for 2024 was reached. For more information on key trends and drivers, refer to the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy', 'Sector performance'. ESG management at portfolio level FMO measures ESG gross and net risk in our portfolio to monitor our risk profile and to ensure we remain within risk appetite while measuring ESG performance. FMO has a public ESG target on the ESG performance of its high-ESG risk customers’ portfolio. The target is part of FMO’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), which specifies the appetite for accepting residual ESG risk. FMO has a cautious appetite for ESG risk in its investments. Full adherence cannot generally be expected at the start of the relationship. FMO strives for investments to be brought in line with our standards within a credible and reasonable period of time. It is understood and accepted that customers/investees have performance gaps as they need knowledge and resources to implement ESG improvements. E&S performance gaps Table 11. Minimum disclosure requirements for number of customers with E&S performance gaps in portfolio Methodology and assumptions Number of customers for which subpar performance has been identified (denoted by 'n'). E&S performance tracking is conducted for all high E&S risk customers, to determine their adherence to the IFC PS. The performance tracker considers all applicable IFC PS criteria per customer and allows these to be scored to assess the potential negative impacts and performance of the customer to mitigate these. For each high E&S risk customer, the following is determined: 1. The customers’ risk exposure to each criterion (1 – Low | 2 – Medium | 3 – High), and 2. The customers’ performance score against each PS criterion (1 – Exemplary | 2 – Good | 3 – Fair | 4 – Caution | 5 Unacceptable). The combination of these elements leads to a 7-letter scale E&S risk rating (AAA, AA, BBB, BB, CCC, CC, D) for each applicable criterion. Ratings BB/BBB/AA/AAA represent adequate customer E&S risk management per criterion, whilst CCC/CC/D are deemed to be inadequate. The lowest rating that the customer has achieved across all IFC PS criteria is used as the overall customer ESG performance rating. Performance is monitored over the lifetime of the investment. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit Number 2024 54 The following table provides an overview of the current E&S performance gaps we have identified and how we engage with these customers. It includes the number of customers for which subpar performance has been identified (denoted by 'n'). The outcomes shown below were compiled as part of FMO’s ESG performance tracking on a customer level (the methodology underlying this is outlined in 124 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"table 11). These performance gaps have been summarized by theme in the table that follows which illustrates the high priority issues that still require attention. Table 12. E&S performance gaps E&S performance gaps 2024 Description Our engagement ESRS topic Willingness and commitment (PS1) (n=7) Resistance to engage on E&S issues can stem from over- reliance on DFIs to drive ESG work streams. Commitment can waver due to financial, operational and contextual difficulties. Wavering commitment can have tangible implications on human rights and the environment, for example through delays in implementing management plans or community benefits, or in conducting specialized studies. We use contractual leverage on specific E&S items, raise issues with customers’ top management and exert influence on their boards, e.g. to push for the improvement of organizational culture. - Environmental and social governance and budget (PS1) (n=9) The customer’s leadership is not fully aware of and involved with E&S performance management, and/or has not allocated sufficient budget, resources, or time. Governance issues can result in poor protection of workers’ rights, a range of risks to communities, as well as damage to the environment. We use contractual leverage and escalate the issue to top management. We may offer capacity building and advice on integrating E&S costs into financial planning and monitor frequently. - Identification and assessment of risks and impacts (PS1) (n=8) Weak (initial and ongoing) identification and mitigation of risks. This can adversely impact human rights. We provide customers with continuous engagement with our ESG staff and capacity building. If needed, we exert formal pressure e.g. through withholding additional financing or triggering default. - Environmental and social management system (PS1) (n=13) Since the assessment and management of E&S risks and impacts is part of a larger set of processes that the customer uses to manage its projects, the customer needs to deploy an environmental and social management system (ESMS) to warehouse and utilize such processes. A weak system hampers the ability to identify issues or risks, and through that to improve E&S performance, and so can lead to adverse economic, financial, social, and environmental impacts. We support customers in the development and improvement of an ESMS. - Organizational capacity and competency (PS1) (n=10) E&S teams can be too small, change often, continue to perform poorly, or lack qualified staff. This is an issue in countries where environmental legislation is developing, and/or state human rights policy and practice are weak. We use contractual leverage, offer capacity building and look for competent staff in our network. - Stakeholder engagement, external communication, grievance mechanisms (PS1) (n=16) Trust and communication between FMO’s customer and its stakeholders are eroding or have broken down. Ineffective channels of communication play an important part here, particularly when grievances are insufficiently captured or redressed. Poor performance in this area can infringe on the freedom of opinion and expression, and even result in inhuman treatment, retaliation, and risk to lives. We intensify our customer engagement, offer to connect customers to experts, mediate or provide capacity building. S3 Affected communities Voluntary land rights transfer (PS1) (n=2) Customer needs to demonstrate that the buyer and the seller were both willing to transfer the land. Involuntary land transfer can be masked as voluntary, which can weaken community cohesion, cause tension between company and community and affect people’s livelihoods. We engage with our customers to help them establish a land acquisition process that shows both the buyer and seller are willingly transferring the land. S3 Affected communities Working conditions and management of workers relationship (incl. third party workers) (PS2) (n=14) Project workers working in substandard conditions, unaware of their rights or without access to grievance mechanisms. This can infringe on labor rights. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. S2 Workers in the value chain Occupational health and safety (PS2) (n=10) Gaps in ensuring safe and healthy working conditions, possibly leading to serious injuries and fatalities. This could infringe upon the right to health and safety in the workplace, and the right to life. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. S2 Workers in the value chain 125 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Supply chain working conditions (PS2) (n=3) When the customer does not monitor its primary supply chain, risks or incidents affecting vulnerable groups are not adequately addressed. We require customers with supply chains susceptible to high human rights or environmental risks to conduct a supply chain risk assessment. In some cases, they also need to develop a leverage plan and/or action plan to mitigate those risks. S2 Workers in the value chain Resource efficiency and pollution prevention (PS3) (n=10) Projects reduce the availability of water in arid regions or pollution prevention measures are inefficient. This can infringe upon the right to life, the rights of the child and the right to live in a safe, clean, and healthy environment. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. - Community health, safety and security (PS4) (n=9) Potential negative impacts to local communities are poorly managed, especially when security forces are mandated to protect personnel and assets. The increasing fragility of political environments across the geographies we work in makes this a complex area. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. FMO can require a root cause analysis and corrective measures or redress. S3 Affected communities Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement (PS5) (n=9) When resettlement and livelihood restoration plans are poorly managed or insufficiently recognize vulnerable groups and/or have ineffective grievance mechanisms. This can impoverish people and infringe on their right to an adequate standard of living, notably the right to food and adequate housing. We find an expert to conduct gap analyses and implement recommendations. In the event of an early exit, FMO seeks to provide remedy to those impacted. S3 Affected communities Biodiversity and living natural resources (PS6) (n=9) Biodiversity potential negative impacts have not been modeled well enough or monitoring and mitigation are insufficient, or new findings are missed or ignored. This reduces biodiversity and access to forest products, thereby infringing on the right to food and/or an adequate standard of living. We intensify customer monitoring, engage a biodiversity expert and use our leverage to improve the situation. E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems Indigenous Peoples (PS7) (n=3) Community engagement processes do not meet FPIC requirement and/or do not allow for sufficient participation of Indigenous Peoples. In some cases, we recognize challenging operating conditions where risks to these communities are difficult to control. This may lead to the infringement of their right to food, traditions and sacred sites. FMO encourages customers to meet FPIC standards, share benefits with communities, and include indigenous groups in livelihood restoration. We may intensify monitoring of contextual risk factors. S3 Affected communities Cultural heritage (PS8) (n=3) Failure to protect cultural heritage. This can infringe on the rights of people to benefit from their and other people’s cultural heritage. We use our leverage to improve the situation, looking at past and future risks. S3 Affected communities Financial intermediaries: financial institutions and fund managers (n=22) Substandard system for identifying and managing E&S potential negative impacts of financed activities. Processes and procedures are unclear, E&S management responsibilities are insufficiently defined and/or capabilities are lacking, or inadequate E&S due diligence and monitoring is performed. This can be compounded by lack of exposure to and experience in E&S risks management by the financial sector and the lack of a level-playing field. This can lead to infringements of all types of human rights as referenced before. We provide expertise and funding for the ESMS or sit on E&S risk management committees. We negotiate improvement plans and, in some cases, initiate or contribute to sector initiatives. - ESG performance target While we monitor all negative impacts in our portfolio, FMO's ESG performance target is set annually for high-ESG risk customers contracted prior to 2024 (identified as the ‘target list’). The target list includes high E&S risk customers and customers with a corporate governance officer in the deal. We register and monitor all potential negative impacts of our high-risk customers and aim to have at least 90 percent of ESG risks in our target list managed at an adequate level by our customers. The 2024 results indicate that, on average, 94 percent of ESG risks were adequately managed. In instances where customer performance deteriorates or open action items are not implemented on time, customers receive lower ratings, which bring down the average of the entire portfolio. The target has 126 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"been met and the 2024 performance has improved from 91 percent in 2023, resulting from improved impact management by our clients, with a particular increase in performance of our FI portfolio. Table 13. Minimum disclosure requirements for ESG performance target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) At least 90 percent of the ESG risks in our target list are managed at an adequate level by our customers Scope of target High E&S-risk customers and customers with a corporate governance officer in the deal. By consolidating customers within the same corporate group or group of companies, and excluding those in B Loans* or contracted in 2024, we created a target list of 258 customers. Baseline value 90% Baseline year 2023 Application period 2024-2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: 90% Methodologies and assumptions E&S performance tracking is conducted for all high E&S risk customers, to determine their adherence to the IFC PS. The performance tracker considers all applicable IFC PS criteria per customer and allows these to be scored to assess the potential negative impacts and performance of the customer to mitigate these. For each high E&S risk customer, the following is determined: 1. The customers’ risk exposure to each criterion (1 – Low | 2 – Medium | 3 – High), and 2. The customers’ performance score against each PS criterion ((1 – Exemplary | 2 – Good | 3 – Fair | 4 – Caution | 5 Unacceptable). The combination of these elements leads to a 7-letter scale E&S risk rating (AAA, AA, BBB, BB, CCC, CC, D) for each applicable criterion. Ratings BB/BBB/AA/AAA represent adequate customer E&S risk management per criterion, whilst CCC/CC/D are deemed to be inadequate. The target is calculated as the share of adequate risks amongst all risks assessed in the target list customers (see scope for target list). Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) NA Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy which has been discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting, including the Dutch government being the key stakeholder and shareholder. Changes in target Target remains the same as in 2023 except the target list is redefined every year as described in the methodology. Performance 94% *FMO participates in 'B-loans', contractual arrangements where it has a sub-participation where another DFI/MDB manages the customer relationship. In these cases, FMO does not have a direct business relationship with the end recipient. In 2023, it was decided that, while FMO will continue to monitor B-loan performance, the results would not be included in our ESG target. Evaluate and learn FMO conducts evaluations to assess and learn from FMO’s performance against our committed (impact) objectives. At the portfolio level, we perform corporate evaluations to assess FMO's contributions to the SDGs, while for fund evaluations, we selectively choose specific investments for review. Evaluations help us to be accountable and to learn from the results that our financial and non-financial activities create in order to continuously improve. ESRS 2 Governance of sustainability matters The topic of governance is mostly covered in the sub-chapter ‘Corporate governance’ and the chapter ‘Report of the Supervisory Board’. In this section, we provide information on the governance aspects relating to sustainability-related matters. 127 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Roles and responsibilities in managing IROs FMO’s sustainability agenda is managed in an integrated way. The Supervisory Board oversees the overall strategy and performance. The Supervisory Board has three dedicated committees: The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC), the Impact Committee (IC) and the Selection, Appointment and Remuneration (SARC). The Audit and Risk Committee provides - among others - advice to the Supervisory Board on approving the Risk Appetite Framework. The Audit and Risk committee also discusses the quarterly Risk Appetite Reports on a regular basis. This report includes sections on whether climate risk and ESG risk are within appetite level. The Impact Committee prepares the decision-making and advice of the Supervisory Board on FMO’s strategic impact commitments, including policies and targets related to sustainability-related matters. Our material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities are reflected in the standing rules of the Supervisory Board Impact Committee as part of their objective of assisting the Supervisory Board in overseeing the quality and integrity of FMO’s statements regarding development Impact. The Supervisory Board Impact Committee also prepares advice to support Supervisory Board and Management Board decision-making concerning FMO's strategy in respect to sustainability-related matters, including policies and target-setting. Our Management Board is responsible for FMO’s mission, vision, strategic goals and strategy including our long-term value creation. The Management Board is also responsible for implementing the strategy and the subsequent delivery of results, as reflected in the standing rules of the Management Board. Our sustainability-related matters are closely connected to managing FMO’s development impact, which is a core Management Board responsibility. In 2022, the Management Board approved FMO’s 2030 Strategy, including its 2030 strategic targets and ambitions. FMO’s long-term strategy is translated into annual business plans, outlining the priorities as well as the annual targets for the year, which are discussed and approved by the Management Board. The Management Board also approves the overall outcome of FMO’s double materiality assessment and reporting approach. Specific investments and divestments are discussed and/or approved by the Management Board. The Management Board decides and steers on strategic ambition levels regarding sustainability, through the setting of sustainability-related targets at corporate level, approving elements of our sustainability policy universe and guiding on items with high sustainability-related risks of reputational damage. Management Board committees The Management Board has delegated some of these responsibilities to its management committees. With regards to sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities, responsibilities have been delegated to the Impact and Sustainability Committee (ISCO), the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) and the Financial Risk Committee (FRC). The ISCO supports the Management Board by driving the day-to-day impact and sustainability agenda through improved decision-making of sustainability-related matters and interpretation of external developments, with a view to implementation consequences. The Co-CIO has been appointed as the single point of accountability in the Management Board for sustainability-related matters and acts as Chair of the ISCO. In addition, the committee is composed of the following permanent members: Director Strategy, Director ESG+, Director Finance, Impact and Data, Investment Director and Director Credit and Special Operations. The ISCO endorses the results of the FMO’s double materiality assessment (DMA) from an impact materiality perspective, for the Management Board to approve. The Sustainability Policy is approved by the Management Board at least once every 3 years. The ISCO has delegated authority for its annual approval. The NFRC is appointed by the Management Board as an independent body for the purpose of monitoring, challenging, and deciding upon the execution of non-financial risk within FMO including ESG risks and will decide on the escalation of unacceptable ESG risks related to investment projects and cases with high reputational risk. The FRC deals with ESG risk at a portfolio level including for example climate risk assessments and results. The FRC also endorses the results of the DMA from a financial materiality perspective. Both the FRC and NFRC are chaired by Management Board members. Internal functions The responsibility for managing sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities lies with several internal functions within FMO. The Strategy department is tasked with managing FMO’s corporate strategy and implementation, including defining the sustainability strategy and related policies. FMO’s 128 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"intensive assets in its current portfolio, for example, via indirect investments through financial intermediaries in the Financial Institutions portfolio. However, mechanisms are in place to mitigate this risk in the investment portfolio. In this regard, a distinction between new and legacy investments should be made: 1. For new investments: The Combined Position Statement on Coal and Phasing Out Fossil Fuels excludes and screens out investments that are expected to have a high risk for future carbon lock in. FMO will use the Paris Alignment (PA) methodology to screen potential investments for alignment with the Paris Agreement. See section 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies' for more background on the PA methodology. 2. While there may be carbon-intensive assets locked in, in the current portfolio, the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target applies to both new and existing investments, thereby ensuring that the total emissions from investments in power generation will be reduced by 50 percent in 2030. See section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation' for more information on the Power Generation target. In its current form, the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178, also known as the EU Taxonomy, is applicable for European economic activities. Since FMO invests outside Europe and entities based outside the EU are excluded from the numerator of the Green Asset Ratio (GAR), FMO reports a GAR of 0 percent. This implies that no key performance indicators from the EU Taxonomy can be linked to the resources required for the implementation of the actions described. More information is included in the 'EU Taxonomy' section. Based on FMO’s interpretation of as investments in physical assets in scope 1 and 2 of an organization, there is no CapEx to be identified as material for FMO. As a financial institution, FMO does not do climate-related investments in physical assets in its own operations that can be considered material (see 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment'). FMO is awaiting guidelines or sector standards specifically for financial institutions for possible adaptation of the CapEx definition to financial institutions. FMO is not excluded from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks. The decarbonization levers presented are based on FMO’s 2030 Strategy and the CAP, i.e. the aims and actions described are embedded in FMO’s strategy. This is explained in more detail in the chapter on 'E1 Impact, risks, opportunities'. Details on the progress of each of the decarbonization levers are provided in 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies'. Details on the targets that are part of the decarbonization levers (e.g. the Power Generation Emissions Reduction target and €10 billion SDG 13 target) are provided in 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. The 2030 Strategy was approved by the Supervisory Board in 2022. The CAP was approved by the Management Board in 2022. E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Our material IROs related to climate change are covered in the following two policies. 1. Sustainability Policy 2. Climate Risk Policy In the following sections, these policies are described in further detail. FMO’s commitments and actions on climate are described in the CAP and reported in 'E1-3 Actions'. All policies are subject to frequent revisions as per the Bank Risk Policy and are continuously evolving. Sustainability Policy FMO’s sustainability policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts and is described in more detail in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The Sustainability Policy encompasses FMO’s organizational activities, including energy consumption, resource utilization, travel practices, and new investments, addressing all products offered by FMO. As such, our Sustainability Policy covers how we manage the 140 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"climate-related impacts throughout our value chain. The Sustainability Policy is complemented by several position statements and an exclusion list. For climate change the most noteworthy include: Our Combined Position Statement on Coal and Position Statement on Phasing Out Fossil Fuels from our Investments reflects our approach to phasing out fossil fuels from our portfolio, both direct and indirect. Our Position Statement on Hydro Power Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical and E&S impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. Our Position Statement on Impact and ESG for financial intermediaries outlines FMO’s structural approach to impact steering and ESG management in financial intermediary financing, including restricting our financial intermediary portfolio exposure to coal activities, and promoting and advising on green credit lines or green bonds that support climate action. Our exclusion list contains the activities, products, uses, distribution, business or trade that FMO and the borrower will not finance, extending to the borrowers’ shareholders, their affiliates and their subsidiaries. Additional major documents and processes that explain how material climate positive and negative impacts are managed are: The Paris alignment methodology, which describes our methodology for checking our new investments for alignment with the Paris goals, thereby helping our clients with the transition to become Paris aligned. ESG in the investment process: While the Sustainability Policy explains FMO’s ESG management process, this is operationalized via different internal documents such as the Risk Appetite Framework, Investment Criteria, and SIS manual. The Green Label Guidelines are used to assess eligibility of new investments for a ‘Green Label’. A Green Label is assigned based on the ex-ante potential of an investment in terms of its positive impact on our portfolio, including for instance the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing resource efficiency, preserving and growing natural capital, and/or supporting climate adaptation. The label is not intended to monitor (ex post) impact. The Green Label thereby serves as a strategic steering tool and a proxy for FMO to measure progress against its €10 billion SDG 13 2030 target. In relation to the upstream value chain, an additional relevant document is the Sustainability Bonds Framework, which addresses the four key pillars of the ICMA ESG Bond Principles. The framework explains how FMO attracts private or public funds by issuing sustainable or green bonds in the capital market. Moreover, FMO aims to mobilize public and private capital and to create new bankable opportunities, as described in our 2030 Strategy. Climate Risk Policy The Climate Risk Policy covers our climate-related risks in the entire value chain. Complementing this policy, the climate risk methodology explains how we identify the physical and transition risks associated with climate change. All policies are subject to frequent revisions as per the Bank Risk Policy and are therefore continuously evolving. The Climate Risk Policy aims to: 1. Define climate risk in terms of physical and transition risk drivers. 2. Introduce the approach used to identify climate risks in all FMO’s operations, products, and services. 3. Define the roles and responsibilities related to climate risk identification, assessment, and action. 141 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Table 15. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for Climate Risk Policy Scope of policy The policy applies to the FMO-A portfolio (both on and off-balance sheet) and to FMO-managed government funds. It has a specific focus on assessing and managing climate risks related to FMO's loan and equity investments. In 2025, the scope and name of the policy will be expanded from a climate risk policy to a climate- related and environmental financial risk policy. Accountable body The document is approved by the FRC after consultation via the ISCO and owned by Risk. Implementation is currently managed via an internal project and related implementation oversight is performed by the Steering Committee of the project. Third-party standards/ initiatives (if relevant) The document was developed in the light of the ECB Guide on climate-related and environmental risks. Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) No key external stakeholders were consulted upfront in this process, but the policy has been shared with DNB for information afterwards. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) This is an internal policy and the document is therefore not publicly available. With regards to climate change mitigation, FMO manages material IROs through several processes. Most importantly, through our Green Label guidelines, with which we aim for our portfolio to materially contribute to climate mitigation, reduction of GHG emissions and/or increasing sequestration of GHG emissions from the atmosphere (along with adaptation and energy efficiency, as described below). FMO’s Green Label definition is based on the Common Principles for Climate Mitigation Finance Tracking, as defined by the Multilateral Development Banks. All Green-labelled investments should meet FMO’s Green Principles, namely that Green-labelled investments contribute to a genuine improvement and should not contribute to a long-term lock-in of high carbon infrastructure. A genuine improvement implies that 1) the improvement goes beyond the local regulatory requirements 2) the improvement is unrelated to local resources stress and 3) the improvement is sustainable throughout the value chain of an industry or a business. The implementation of our Paris Alignment methodology will contribute to further aligning our new investments to the Paris Agreement. Furthermore, as per our combined Position Statement on Coal and Phasing Out Fossil Fuels, FMO will not invest in any upstream coal mining activities, transportation of coal, construction or renovation of a coal producing plant, or other associated business or infrastructure. Other fossil fuels are only invested in the exceptional case that a transition phase is deemed necessary to improve a country’s energy accessibility. The combined position statement applies to both direct and indirect investments of FMO. The SBF sets out a list of climate change mitigation activities eligible for the sustainability bonds issued. The Climate Risk Policy includes components such as knowledge and awareness development, embedding climate risk in the organization's strategy, governance, risk appetite determination, policy adjustments, stress testing, climate risk assessment methodology development, and internal and external reporting. FMO manages its knowledge components and supports customers primarily via technical assistance. Investment teams are responsible for assessing climate risks and it is at their discretion to discuss the outcomes with clients. The Risk department maintains the methodology and supports knowledge development across the organization. Besides climate mitigation, FMO also aims to contribute to climate adaptation. Most notably, we do this through our Green Label, through which we label those investments that ex ante are expected to positively contribute to climate adaptation. For a customer or an activity to be eligible for a Green Label in this category, it needs to be assessed to meet the climate adaptation principles set by the IFC-MDB joint methodology for climate change adaptation. This means that climate change adaptation is defined as achieving climate resilience outcomes in response to relevant climate change impacts, by managing or reducing physical climate risks, reducing the underlying causes of vulnerability and avoiding maladaptation. 142 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Our Paris Alignment methodology further aims to ensure a minimum level of resilience for Paris alignment. Our physical Climate Risk Assessment underpins our climate adaptation label analysis. The SBF sets out a list of climate change adaptation activities eligible for the sustainability bonds. Following the EDFI Statement on Climate and Energy Finance and as part of our Climate Action Plan, FMO aims to finance initiatives that contribute to adaptation and resilience to climate change, especially in respect of vulnerable communities and natural ecosystems. Improving energy efficiency is one of the ways by which FMO strives to remain climate neutral in all its operational activities. FMO looks to build-up a portfolio that is targeted at improving access to basic services, such as energy, and aiming to optimally use scarce resources. Energy efficiency is seen as a form of climate change mitigation when assessing activities according to the Green Label Guidelines: at least 20 percent reduction in energy consumption or GHG emissions is required for it to comply with that category. Through our E&S practices, we apply IFC PS3: Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, which is specific for water and pollution (e.g. air, noise, water) related impacts and for opportunities on efficiencies (e.g. energy or water). This also involves the issuance of sustainability bonds used to finance renewable energy and improve energy. Regarding renewable energy deployment, following the EDFI Statement on Climate and Energy Finance, our Sustainability Policy states that FMO is committed to increase its share of investment that contributes to low-carbon, reliable and affordable energy. As described previously, through our Green Label and Position Statements, we aim to increase our portfolio’s share of contribution to renewable energy deployment and avoid investments in non-renewables respectively. Also, investing in renewable energy is central to our Energy sector strategy, which is one of the three core sectors in which FMO invests. Finally, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments in biodiversity and forestry, to remove carbon and increase resilience. For further information please refer to 'E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems'. E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies The three main actions to operationalize FMO’s 2030 Strategy in relation to climate are as follows: 1. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. 2. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. 3. Active management of our climate action. Details regarding these actions are described in the following sections. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals This action consists of the following sub-actions: 1. Reduce emissions in our investments, so that in 2050 our portfolio’s aggregate absolute emissions, when added with our carbon removal investments’ negative emissions, result in net zero emissions. We will strive to align the overall portfolio emission reductions with aggregate country- and sector- specific 1.5oC emission reduction pathways, taking into account a just and inclusive transition. At FMO we recognize that a starting point for Paris alignment are the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and National Adaptation Plans, and while we will seek to align our investments with these plans, we also seek to raise the ambition level of our customers and strive toward 1.5oC pathway alignment. 143 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"2. Reduce power generation portfolio emissions by 50 percent to 2030, while at the same time approximately doubling our sustainable power generation portfolio and overall energy portfolio. We will consider additional targets in other parts of the portfolio. 3. Assess new investments for Paris alignment from a climate mitigation and resilience perspective, by implementing an investment-level Paris alignment assessment for new transactions. 4. Implement our commitment under the EDFI Climate and Energy Statement regarding fossil fuels in our indirect investments, and consider other policies that support our goals. FMO has a dedicated project allocated to the implementation of this action. Since 2023, FMO has a dedicated workstream focused on developing a Paris alignment methodology and further developing our in-house capacity. In 2024 FMO finalized its Paris alignment methodology, based on the MDB Principles for Paris Alignment. This methodology will be used to assess new investments for Paris alignment from a mitigation and resilience perspective and was piloted in 2024 based on which the methodology was further refined and finalized. The Paris alignment assessment methodology will be rolled out in the coming period and once ready, will be used to assess new transactions. Additionally, FMO will work further towards an approach for striving towards 1.5-degree alignment and develop climate mitigation KPIs for progress measurement. The overall action can be classified as a decarbonization lever, since the sub-actions will reduce emissions in FMO's investment portfolio, thereby mitigating climate change. The target of reducing power generation emissions by 50 percent in 2030 is part of this action. This target – together with performance on expected and achieved GHG reductions - is elaborated in section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers This action is made of by the following sub-actions: 1. Building up a portfolio of at least €10 billion dedicated to SDG 13 goals in climate mitigation, adaptation & resilience (including nature-based solutions), biodiversity, and other footprint reduction. We do this by engaging with customers such as our financial institutions to encourage their further investments in these objectives, through activities that contribute to developing our markets (market creation), and by mobilizing additional capital to closing the financing gap needed in emerging markets. 2. Increasing our climate mitigating investments and investments that contribute to solutions for adaptation, resilience and biodiversity, thereby strengthening our customers’ resilience to climate change. Examples of what this entails, include: Corporate governance advisory work focused on climate governance and climate risk, building on the work we have done in this area to date. Technical assistance funding, building on platforms like our Green Finance Framework. Engagement with portfolio companies and new customers to influence them to set targets and transition plans to reduce their emissions over time, or at a minimum to consider technical solutions together. Supporting green finance innovation in our investments. Active shareholdership by ensuring our investees are prepared for both climate risks and opportunities. Creating coalitions with key nature conservation organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, and promoting community and stakeholder engagement. 3. Provide sector-specific solutions for energy, financial institutions, and agriculture and forestry. Regarding energy, FMO will continue financing utility scale clean energy generation projects (solar, wind both on- and offshore, hydro power and geothermal), with an increased attention towards the least developed countries (LDCs) and fragile states. These efforts will be an important driver behind our climate mitigation and resilience goals. Towards 2030, through sector initiatives, partner engagement, and other means, we will work to remove bottlenecks currently slowing down the sustainable energy transition in some of our markets. We will also work toward sustainable energy access and inclusion, while further scaling both already established / proven and innovative technologies and solutions. 144 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"For financial institutions, FMO will increasingly aim to have a ‘transformative’ impact on customers through a strategic approach including the development of product propositions, capabilities, and related financing with the goal of having the same effect on end beneficiaries. Finally, regarding agriculture and forestry, our focus will remain on strengthening local agricultural and food supply chains for both local or regional markets to increase local production and reduce reliance on imports, to improve local access to nutritious food, and to reduce food waste (e.g. through more and improved storage and distribution). We continue our focus on decent work and economic inclusion of the bottom 40 percent of income distribution, including smallholder farmers and women. Towards 2030, emphasis will be on engagement and investing more in global merchants, input providers and food companies with leverage to increase sustainable practices, along the (international) agricultural supply chains. We will continue expanding our integral/ landscape approach to supporting and investing in sustainable land-use and ecosystem protection and restoration, among others, through our work on forestry (carbon sequestration), climate smart and regenerative agriculture, soil improvements and livelihoods. 4. Continue to invest in carbon removals, specifically forestry, and help build these markets. More details on this are provided in the section 'E1-7 GHG Removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits'. 5. Contribute to our impact portfolio growth objectives through our market creation efforts and scale our activities through our mobilization efforts. In order to advance our impact contributions (including for climate action), through ‘market creation’ we aim to develop unbankable opportunities into bankable projects, as well as drive topics and business models of the future. We aim to accelerate impact by upscaling mobilization of private and public capital by aiming to double this portfolio by 2030 through: Developing climate fund propositions for large scale mobilization, following a just and inclusive transition approach, targeting both climate impact and social impact. Blending public and commercial funding for high-impact propositions in LDCs. Exploring possibilities for equity mobilization. Strengthening syndication efforts by increasing sourcing capacity of transactions, and by expanding and diversifying our investor base. 6. Engaging with our customers to increase their Paris alignment and provide them with technical assistance and other support. This will include helping to develop climate governance and climate risk frameworks and tools to work with their clients. We will specifically start with pan-regional customers as agents of change, gradually expanding to all customers over time. FMO’s Green Label Methodology was updated in 2023 by the Sustainability Strategy and Policy team (established in 2023), following updated Multilateral Development Banks common principles for climate mitigation finance tracking. FMO has also established a Sustainable Finance Advisory team to support investment teams with Green deal origination. This team reached its full size at the end of 2023 and initiated work with the sectors in 2024. On advancing sector-specific solutions for energy, financial institutions, and agriculture and forestry, in 2024, FMO developed a climate framework for Technical Assistance (TA) to the Private Equity and Agribusiness, Food and Water sectors. Through the climate framework, FMO is able to offer customers in the Private Equity and Agribusiness, Food and Water sectors TA on climate adaptation and mitigation. This includes climate awareness training, climate risk assessments, GHG measurement and reporting, climate action planning and implementation, climate opportunity origination, and compliance with sustainability standards. As part of our ambition to continue to invest in carbon removals, specifically forestry, and help build these markets, FMO has investment officers specialized in forestry in various investment teams. Under market creation, FMO has defined four focus themes: financial inclusion and resilience for entrepreneurs, responsible energy transition, forestry and sustainable land-use, and food system transformation. In 2024, we worked in particular on operationalizing and building out the financial inclusion theme. 145 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"The overall action can be classified as a decarbonization lever, since it will contribute to reducing emissions, thereby mitigating climate change. However, no GHG emission reduction target is linked to this action. Active management of our climate action This action is comprised of a set of sub-actions: 1. Monitor our work at a portfolio level, including absolute and relative emission levels. In order to achieve the impact we aim for, having the right data and additional information needed for measuring and steering our work will be key. 2. Continue to improve data quality and collection, including at the level of our customers. Data collection in our markets and for our specific customer types is not always readily available, especially for investments in smaller companies and for financial institutions and funds, which need to obtain data from their clients. To tackle this challenge, together with our development finance institution partners, we launched the Joint Impact Model (JIM) in 2021. The JIM allows us to model the emissions in the absence of emission data, to have an indication of our portfolio emissions. 3. Adopt an adaptive management approach and adjust our actions based on data and information. The intent of our data/information collection drive is to not only use the information we gather to report and for compliance purposes, but to also better actively manage our portfolio and tailor our climate actions to what is most effective. Moving forward, we will continue to work on improving our systems. 4. Implement a climate risk framework to manage the portfolio for both physical and transition climate risk. Integrating climate risk at FMO is about ensuring that risks to our portfolio due to climate change (physical and transition risks) are structurally identified, assessed, and managed. It is also about bringing this knowledge to our customers and structuring our transactions with the same considerations. Ultimately managing climate risk is another way to drive the change we want to see in our markets. The implementation of this action is mainly covered via a project. In 2024, FMO made progress in developing transition and physical risk assessment methodologies for assessing climate risk. Physical risk assessment tooling is currently implemented for all sectors. Furthermore, FMO established a climate risk policy as well as a quarterly portfolio scan as part of the climate risk framework. FMO also continued work on improving data quality and collection. For the first time, FMO reported the PCAF score for the tracking of emissions data quality. FMO will further work on transition risk assessment and improving data quality and management. FMO will also aim to refine emissions data to better take into account known use-of-proceeds instruments, i.e., when the investment is allocated to specific assets of a customer. While this action aims to enhance FMO’s management of climate actions, such as creating more awareness via enhanced data and methodologies, the overall action cannot be classified as a decarbonization lever since it does not directly contribute to GHG reduction. Table 16. Minimum Disclosure Requirement applicable for all presented actions Scope of actions The actions apply to FMO's value chain, with a focus on the downstream value chain. No actions regarding FMO's own operations are included, as these were found to be not material in the DMA. Time horizon The actions are formulated for the period until 2030, in line with our Strategy. Actions taken to provide for and cooperate in or support the provision of remedy (if applicable) N/A Progress of actions disclosed in prior periods As this is the first year we report within the structure of the ESRS, we do not report progress on actions from prior periods. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. Operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) (if required) No significant operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) related to implementing actions. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. 146 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As explained in section 'E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation', no key performance indicators from the EU Taxonomy can be linked to the resources required for the implementation of the actions described. More information is provided in the 'EU Taxonomy' section. E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation FMO has two targets related to the Policies and Actions described in the sections 'E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation' and 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies' respectively. Table 14 presented in the 'E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities' section shows which target relates to which IRO, policy and/or action. The table, therefore, indicates for each action whether there is a related target, thereby specifying whether and how the effectiveness of these actions are quantitatively tracked. Firstly, a GHG emission reduction target has been set in the form of the Power Generation Emission Reduction target. The target is set to reduce the financed scope 1 emissions in the power generation portfolio by 50 percent in 2030. Given the baseline value of 624 ktCO2e, this would imply an absolute reduction of 312 ktCO2e. This target will specifically contribute to reducing the financed absolute GHG emissions, i.e. the GHG emissions in scope 3 category 15 (Investments). The target has the same reporting boundary as the financed absolute GHG emissions. In 2024, the power generation portfolio emissions are 442 ktCO e, which is 42 percent of the financed scope 1 emissions and 8 percent of total financed absolute GHG emissions. In line with the ‘Financial Sector Climate Commitment Guideline on relevant financing, investments and action plans’ FMO has prioritized target setting for its power generation portfolio, being an emission-intensive sector. Secondly, a strategic target has been set in the form of the €10 billion SDG 13 target. FMO aims to have developed a portfolio of at least €10 billion in investments dedicated to SDG 13 goals by 2030. An ex- ante assessment is made to assess an investment’s potential impact and its related contribution to SDG 13, determining eligibility to receive the Green Label. The Green Label includes positive impact contributions to for instance climate change mitigation and adaptation and biodiversity. While it is no direct emission reduction target, the Green Label as a tool to steer towards FMO’s €10 billion SDG 13 target will contribute to reduced emissions in FMO’s investments portfolio and overall positive impact to SDG 13. Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. Since the Power Emission Reduction Target is the only target related to GHG emission reduction, disclosures requirements focusing on emission reductions are only applicable to this target. Table 14 in the 'E1 Impact, risks and opportunities' section indicates to which IRO the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target and the €10 billion SDG 13 target relates to. Table 17 provides information on the Power Generation Emission Reduction target, whereas the relevant details for the €10 billion SDG 13 target are presented in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Table 17. Minimum Disclosure Requirement for Power Generation Emission Reduction Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) 50 percent emission reduction in FMO's financed Scope 1 power generation emissions by 2030. Scope of target The power generation target GHG emissions include active investments that have production of electricity (NACE code 35.11) as their main economic activity. They are calculated based on customers’ Scope 1 emissions, attributed in line with the PCAF Global Standard. The outstanding amounts include FMO-A, public funds and mobilized capital. Baseline value 624 ktCO2e Baseline year 2021 Application period 2021 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets None 2 147 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Methodologies and assumptions The target is based on a calculated 1.5oC pathway provided by the REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4 database, using the Orderly - net zero 2050 scenario for electricity. This scenario is broken down by region, and country income level (upper middle income, lower middle income, low income using World Bank categorization) within regions, using our best estimate of proxies where there is no perfect match. The REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4 database is a scenario of the NGFS, which has as its goal meeting the goals of the Paris agreement. REMIND-MAgPIE is a comprehensive Integrated Assessment Model that simulates the dynamics within and between the energy, land use, water, air pollution and health, economy, and climate systems. It has been assumed that the portfolio distribution at country-income level will remain constant up to 2030 compared to 2021. Moreover, power production growth projections are based on 2030 Strategy projections, including direct mobilized funds (average of ~8.0 percent p.a. between 2021-2030). Thereafter, a projection of 4 percent per year is used. For renewable energy customers without reported emissions data, the assumption is made that their scope 1 emissions are zero. Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) The REMIND-MagPIE scenario is based on the SSP2 scenario defined by the IPCC. Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the CAP, and while taking into consideration the expectations following FMO’s commitment to the Financial Sector commitment to the Dutch Climate Agreement. The CAP was discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting. Changes in target We include only scope 1 emissions, as this is the primary emission driver of power generation plants. For renewable energy customers without reported emissions data, the assumption is made that their scope 1 emissions are zero. In order to compare performance year-on-year, data is aligned according to reporting year to the extent possible. Given that this annual report is published in early 2025, not all 2024 customer data (e.g. emissions data) was available. As a result, the reported 2024 power generation emissions combines 2023 customer emissions data with 2024 portfolio data from FMO (e.g. outstanding amounts). The 2024 number will be finalized in next year’s annual report. The 2023 power generation emissions are, in principle, finalized in this annual report with a value of 510 ktCO2e, based on 2023 portfolio data and 2023 customer data. The baseline for the power generation target is restated in this Annual Report in line with the recalculation approach. The new baseline number is 624 ktCO2e (previous value was 582 ktCO2e). The reason is that emission factors were updated in an internal calculation tool. In order to ensure consistency between baseline and later years, emissions data for 2021 and 2022 was retroactively adjusted for customers where the tool was used – note the tool is not used if customers directly reported emissions. Performance The power generation target GHG emissions were 442 ktCO e in 2024, which is a 29 percent reduction compared to the 2021 baseline. The reduction is due to an overall decrease of our outstanding exposure in operational fossil fuel plants. FMO has set a GHG emission reduction target for financed scope 1 emissions in the power generation portfolio, as described in E1-4. While FMO aims to be net zero by 2050, FMO has not yet set other reduction targets for financed scope 1, 2 and 3, therefore no information and data can be provided regarding such targets. This is due to the many unknowns ahead including how climate change itself will evolve, how our markets and customers will respond, lack of data and what solutions are needed and effective. We seek to carefully balance our climate objectives with customer- or location-specific social and environmental considerations, including the need for a just and inclusive transition. FMO will focus in the short-term on striving to align financial flows with 1.5oC aligned activities and is working on an approach to measure this. FMO will consider setting additional targets to further align financial flows. We will continue to improve our data collection, including at the level of our customers, and use it to assess and monitor our progress, as a component of our climate action project workstream. The progress made regarding the Power Generation Reduction Emission Target has been disclosed in table 17. The baseline value is considered representative as there are no indications that for the power generation portfolio the activities covered and influences from external factors in the base year were significantly different to other years. Table 17 provides information on the scientific base used to define the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target. Since no other targets for GHG emission reduction exist, no other progress can be disclosed, nor can information be provided on how it has been ensured that the baseline value of such targets is representative in terms of activities covered and influences from external factors. 2 148 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"J.V. (Koos) Timmermans (Vice- chair SB, Chair ARC) M. (Marjolein) Demmers (member SB, Chair Impact Committee, member SARC) R.P.F. (Reintje) van Haeringen (member SB, Chair SARC, member Impact Committee) Dutch, 1960, male Dutch, 1967, female Dutch, 1963, female Appointment in current position: 2017 - 2025 (AGM 2026) (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Experience: Supervisory, Banking, Finance, Sustainability, International relations, Risk & Regulatory Experience: Supervisory, NGOs, Sustainability, Compliance, Operations Experience: Supervisory, Development, Poverty reduction Positions: 1. Member of the Supervisory Board of PostNL 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of Havenbedrijf Rotterdam (Port Authority Rotterdam) 3. Board Member Administratie Kantoor Vopak 4. Board Member Administratie Kantoor Philips 5. Member Advisory Board Van Lanschot Kempen 6. Member Supervisory Board KWF Dutch Cancer Society 7. Member of the Supervisory Board of NN 8. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Principal position: Director/CEO of Dutch environmental NGO “Natuur & Milieu” Other positions: 1. Chair of the Supervisory Board of DRIFT (research, consultancy and education in transitions) 2. Board member of SKAO (Schemabeheerder CO2-prestatieladder) 3. Member of the Strategic Advisory Council of TNO ISP (ICT, Policy & Strategy) 4. Member of the Sustainability Board Van Oord 5. Member of the Advisory Council Environmental Sciences Group (ESG), WUR 6. Member Raad van Toezicht Stichting Sustainable Industry Lab (SIL), UU 7. Member Raad van Toezicht Stichting Robin Food Coalition (research and collaboration in the food transition) 8. Member Steering Board KIN – Klimaatonderzoek Initiatief Nederland – Science for Accelerating Transitions (NWO) 9. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Principal position: CEO CARE Nederland Other positions: 1. Board member of the ‘Samenwerkende Hulp Organisaties’ (SHO/Giro555) 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Relief Alliance 3. Member Advisory Board of 4TU’s initiative on resilience 4. Member of Steering Committee KUNO, a platform for humanitarian knowledge exchange 5. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO 59 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
RISK MANAGEMENT 03
"This chapter provides an overview of FMO's risk governance and risk management approach. The sections describe the risk domains relevant to FMO and developments throughout 2024. Together with the quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures - available on FMO's website - it constitutes FMO's Pillar 3 disclosure. Risk governance FMO defines risk as the effect of uncertainty on objectives. FMO has a comprehensive framework in place to manage and control risk, reflecting its banking license, State Support Agreement and a mandate that involves doing business in increased risk countries. The risk management framework helps us realize our ambitions and safeguard our viability. Risk management practices are integrated across the organization, from day-to-day activities to strategic planning, to ensure both compliance with relevant regulations and adherence to the risk appetite. A sound risk management framework is in place to preserve FMO's integrity, which is essential for fulfilling its mission and upholding its good reputation. The Management Board defines and promotes the desired corporate culture and high ethical and professional standards. Employees are encouraged to take the right risks in an informed manner, with integrity and careful consideration of the interests of all stakeholders. The risk management framework is based on the 'three lines model', where the first line (Investment department and supporting functions) is challenged and advised by the second line (Risk department, Compliance department and Credit department), and the third line (Internal Audit) that performs independent assessments of the functioning of the first and second line. The organizational structure is shown below. The Management Board has established risk committees to assist it in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities regarding the risk appetite of FMO, the risk management framework and the governance structure that supports it. The risk committees and their responsibilities are described below: The Financial Risk Committee (FRC). The FRC is appointed by the Management Board for the purpose of monitoring, challenging and deciding upon the execution of financial risk management within FMO. The Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC). The NFRC is appointed by the Management Board for the purpose of monitoring, challenging and deciding upon the execution of non-financial risk and strategic risk management within FMO. Both the FRC and NFRC are chaired by the Chief Risk Officer (or Director Risk in her absence). Several sub-committees report into the FRC and NFRC, such as the Investment Committee, the Integrity and RISK MANAGEMENT 63 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"strategic goals and objectives are cascaded down to the investment departments, which are supported by the respective Impact and ESG+ departments for managing impacts and opportunities. These departments are responsible for identifying the areas in which FMO can work with customers to minimize our negative impacts and optimize our development impacts, to build customer capabilities and for the integration of sustainable standards in our investment processes. The Credit department is responsible for performing an independent review of FMO’s impact assessments at an investment level. The Finance, Impact and Data department, together with the Strategy department, prepares periodic reports to monitor progress on our strategic goals and operational targets, from both a financial and impact perspective. These are discussed with the Management Board on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Other relevant sustainability-related developments can be brought to the Management Board’s or ISCO's attention when deemed necessary. For a description of the procedures to manage ESG risks and FMO’s risk management framework, please refer to the 'Risk management' chapter. Skills and expertise As an impact-driven development finance institution, operating in emerging markets, we deal with a diverse group of stakeholders and topics. The Management Board aims to have a diverse composition with respect to gender, education, experience and age as well as relevant knowledge, expertise and experience in the business areas in which FMO is active. This includes sustainability-related matters, which are core to FMO’s mission. Having an up-to-date understanding of the topic is important for all board members. The Management Board and Supervisory Board can rely on internal experts or hire external experts, should the topic in hand require it. Moreover, the Supervisory Board and Management Board follow a Lifelong Learning Plan where besides, for example, topics that are required by the Dutch Banking Code, sustainability-related matters are included from time to time. The knowledge and experience we have at Supervisory Board and Management Board level relates to FMOs development goals, which includes contributing to in particular SDGs 8, 10 and 13. Sustainability-related matters addressed The Management Board is informed and discusses progress on material sustainability-related impacts and opportunities on a quarterly basis via the Integrated Quarterly Reports. These reports are prepared by the Strategy department to enable the Management Board to monitor progress towards our strategy, including progress on this year’s three priorities: 1) growing impactful business, which among other things includes progress on investments related to SDGs 8, 10 and 13; 2) improving our capabilities; and 3) regulatory compliance, financial sustainability and risk management. The Management Board discusses the Risk Appetite Report every quarter and assesses whether the ESG risk and climate risks are within risk-appetite levels. If this is not the case, the Management Board discusses ways to steer our portfolio back towards risk-appetite levels. With regard to the approval of policies that touch upon ESG and climate risk, the Management Board generally invites representatives of the departments involved to the meeting to discuss the pros and cons and thereafter decides whether to approve the proposed policy. The same goes for prospective investments that have an ESG, climate or sustainability-related element that poses a dilemma. In general, the representatives of the departments involved elaborate on their point of view. Thereafter, the Management Board takes a decision on whether to invest, sometimes subject to conditions. The Supervisory Board Impact Committee acts as a sounding board for the Management Board with regard to sustainability-related matters. For information on the topics discussed by the Supervisory Board and its committees, refer to the 'Corporate governance' section. For a list of impacts, risks and opportunities that were addressed by the Management Board, Supervisory Board or their relevant committees, refer to the section on impact, risk and opportunity management included in each topical standard. Sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes FMO's remuneration policy includes no direct relationship between sustainability-related elements such as the avoidance or reduction of GHG emissions and remuneration elements such as a pay-for- performance system in which the achievement of individual or team targets related to climate/emissions results in an (additional) reward element or benefits. Sustainability-related goals and ambitions, as stated in FMO's strategy, are translated into an annual corporate business plan and goals per department/team. The contribution to the annual performance related to these goals and ambitions is part of the annual performance and appraisal interviews. The specific individual contribution towards 129 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"FMO's sustainability agenda varies greatly by role. Therefore, along with many other elements, while sustainability-related performance can contribute in part to individual annual performances, it only has an indirect effect on remuneration. Further information on FMO’s remuneration policy is provided in the sub-chapter ‘Corporate governance’ in the section ‘Aligned remuneration policies’. ESRS 2 Risk management and internal controls The risk management and internal control system associated with the sustainability reporting process is currently partially integrated into FMO's comprehensive risk governance and risk management framework, with work being undertaken for full alignment. More details can be found in the 'Future actions' section. The governance of non-financial risk in FMO follows the three lines model. First line – management monitors whether the (key) controls in their area of responsibility are functioning effectively or need any improvement. For this purpose, they assess through direct or indirect feedback and evidence the effectiveness of the (key) controls in place. Second line - for non-financial risk is performed by the Operational Risk Management team (ORM) and the Compliance department. They perform independent testing on an agreed subset of key controls. These tests verify if Control Monitoring activities have resulted in a correct assessment of the effectiveness of the controls. Third line – Internal Audit performs independent oversight over non-financial risk and internal control. The mandate and responsibilities of Internal Audit are described in the Audit Charter. Control monitoring and testing is facilitated by ORM twice a year, in November and in June. ORM provides guidance, training and sampling instructions, and reports the results of control monitoring and testing, as well as the progress of control remediation, to the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC). Internal Control activities follow a yearly cycle and are aligned with the financial reporting process, because the results are used to substantiate the Management Board’s In Control Statement (ICS) in the annual report. Detailed information is provided in the 'Risk Management' chapter in the 'Risk governance' section and 'Non-financial risk' sub-chapter. FMO’s approach to the annual reporting of findings of risk assessment and internal controls to administrative, management and supervisory bodies, can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter, in the section 'Risk governance'. The purpose of FMO’s annual report is to be complaint with both existing regulations as well as additional external commitments which are not prescribed by law but have been made on a voluntary basis. Through the annual report FMO ensures that we report in line with sustainability reporting standards which include a compliant and timely report, as well as accurate and complete data and narrative. As such, when it comes to sustainability reporting, two layers of risks have been identified: the first level relates to key risks to process and content, while the second level goes with more granularity into the controls over the data and policies reported in our 'Sustainability statement'. Four categories of key risks have currently been identified; two that address the process and two that address our sustainability-related data and narrative, included in our 'Sustainability statement'. 1. Report is compliant with regulations and standards (process). 2. The report is on time (process). 3. Data is accurate and complete (content). 4. Narrative is accurate and complete (content). For all identified key risks, controls and mitigation actions are in place. To ensure the sustainability report is compliant with regulations and standards, the Risk department actively monitors new regulations and identifies changes that need to be addressed. Checks are performed throughout the sustainability reporting process to make sure all applicable regulatory requirements are included. Timeliness of the report is managed as part of business-as-usual activities, adhering to an agreed-upon timeline with internal escalation routes in case of unexpected delays. For data accuracy and completeness, FMO has implemented manager approvals and four-eye principle checks as controls on data to the first level of risk. Controls on data and policies for the second level of risks are currently 130 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"being formalized. To ensure the narrative's accuracy and completeness, the report undergoes multiple levels of review within FMO. At FMO, risks are prioritized based on their severity, which is assessed using two factors: probability and impact. Probability measures how likely a risk event is to occur. Impact considers the potential consequences, which can include operational loss, financial errors, failure to meet business goals, regulatory issues, or damage to reputation. Risk severity is assessed based on probability and impact, and classified as high, medium, or low. This corresponds to a 'Level of Concern' (LoC) rating: high (LoC 3), medium (LoC 2), or low (LoC 1). Depending on the severity, actions are required: High (LoC 3): actions must be completed within 3-6 months. Medium (LoC 2): actions should be completed within 6-9 months. Low (LoC 1): actions are optional. As the four risks identified as part of the first layer are key risks, they have a high LoC, while the risks in the second layer have been qualified with a medium LoC. The risks within the first layer have controls in place that are regularly being monitored and tested by their designated owners, in line with FMO’s approach. While for the second layer of risks related to data, controls are in place, but only some of them are being actively monitored as part of FMO’s overall risk governance and risk management approach. FMO is currently working on integrating the controls not regularly monitored and tested within the organization’s overall risk and management approach. Future actions FMO adheres to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Code is maintained by the Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code and supported by the ‘schragende partijen’ (supporting parties) consisting of Eumedion, Euronext, FNV, CNV, Vereniging van Effecten Bezitters (VEB), de Vereniging van Effecten Uitgevende Ondernemingen (VEUO) and VNO-NCW. The supporting parties and the Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants have suggested amending the Code to include a ‘Verklaring omtrent Risicobeheersing’ (VOR). According to this proposal, listed companies and other companies following the Dutch Corporate Governance Code will be required to include for the first time in the annual report on 2025 a disclosure statement on risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting. Although sustainability reporting guidelines such as CSRD / ESRS are not embedded in the Corporate Governance code yet, FMO would like to adhere to these requirements as soon as possible. ESRS calls for a connectivity between the 'Financial Statements' and 'Sustainability statement' both from the process perspective and disclosures perspective. As this is the first time reporting, FMO recognizes this as a point of attention. It is up to the Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code to amend the Code to accommodate the VOR proposal. In a letter to the Dutch parliament, the minister of finance encourages the (to be appointed) Monitoring Committee to include the VOR. 131 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E1 Climate Change E1 Introduction In its 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan, FMO presents a set of ambitions, targets and actions to contribute to climate change mitigation and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction. SDG 13 on Climate Change is one of the core components of our 2030 Strategy. An important component of FMO's climate ambition is that it contributes to a just and inclusive transition. We recognize that environmental and social objectives are inextricably linked. For FMO, this represents both the synergies and necessity of pursuing our core SDG goals SDGs 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), 10 (Reducing Inequalities), and 13 (Climate Action) together, if we are to be successful in contributing to any of them individually. FMO acknowledges that climate change will undermine sustainable development goals if not urgently addressed. This implies that FMO’s customers (both current and new) might face new and never previously experienced risks from negative climate change consequences. The rise in weather and climate extremes has already led to some irreversible effects, while the preservation of ecosystems is essential for human well-being and the achievement of the SDGs. FMO recognizes that development finance is urgently needed to contribute to SDG 13, and to support an inclusive and just transition. FMO steers its investments towards those aiming at contributing to a positive impact towards SDG 13, such as investments related to climate adaptation, resilience and mitigation, while managing possible negative impacts. E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities Based on our double materiality assessment (DMA), we have identified the following impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) related to the topic of climate change. Table 14 Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Climate change mitigation Actual negative impact Financed emissions contributing negatively to climate change. Financed emissions Short term Downstream Investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. Power Generation Emission Reduction Target Climate change adaptation Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of investments throughout agricultural supply chains on climate change adaptation through the increase of sustainable, resource efficient and resilient practices and business models. These investments aim to enhance the readiness and capacity of stakeholders to address changing weather patterns and extreme events (e.g. droughts or floods) associated with climate change. Contribution to climate adaptation through investments. Long term Downstream Investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals; Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. SDG 13 Target 132 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Climate change mitigation Potential positive impact Impact through climate mitigation as a result of investments into renewable energy production capacity, CO2 storage and energy infrastructure in developing countries and fragile states, financing the transition away from fossil fuels and thus reducing overall GHG emissions. Contribution to climate mitigation through investments. Medium term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Energy Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of renewable energy production capacity and energy infrastructure investments to reduce volatility of energy prices experienced using fossil fuel sources, and increase the stability of local energy grids and production capacity, as well as strengthen resilience against extreme weather events caused by climate change, contributing overall to better climate change resilience and adaptation for beneficiaries. Contribution to renewable energy production capacity through investments. Medium term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals, Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Climate change adaptation Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of investing in FI's to provide climate financing, including the use of innovative technologies, such as FinTech, or financial instruments to entrepreneurs or FI's in developing countries, providing new access to financing of climate resilience solutions. Contribution to increased access to financing of climate resilience solutions. Long term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Climate change adaptation Opportunity The opportunity for FMO to identify, create and develop new markets relating to climate adaptation (e.g. climate smart and resilient solutions) into bankable projects, to deploy and attract public or private funds and generate return on investment at scale. Opportunity to create new markets related to climate adaptation. Upstream, Downstream investment portfolio CAP: Increasing climate investments to support our customers. No specific target Climate change mitigation Risk Risk of not achieving net zero alignment by 2050, caused by misaligned investment decisions or poor progress by clients and beneficiaries, resulting in reputational, legal and financial issues. Risk of not being in the path to Net Zero. Own operations CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. No specific target 133 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of climate hazards having a material impact on client creditworthiness, caused primarily by effects from acute physical climate hazards such as floods, wildfires, droughts and other extreme weather events. Risk of physical climate hazards on clients. Downstream investment portfolio Climate Risk Policy CAP: Active management of our climate action. No specific target Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of choosing inefficient climate mitigation innovations or some which have the need to be further developed. Investments in the innovative sector have the potential of not being profitable. Risk of investing in inefficient climate mitigation innovations. Downstream investment portfolio No specific target Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of FIs being affected by macroeconomic conditions in the event of a chaotic transition to a low-carbon economy (i.e. rapid, large changes in policy, financing or sentiment), or as a result of the ineffective transition and adaptation to the new reality of climate change, resulting in financial damage to FMO. Risk of a chaotic transition to low-carbon economy. Downstream investment portfolio Climate Risk Policy CAP: Active management of our climate action. No specific target FMO’s DMA, as described in 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', identified potential negative impacts through financed absolute emissions and potential positive impacts through investments in climate adaptation, climate mitigation and renewable energy as well as physical and transition risks. The Climate Risk Report and Climate Action Plan (CAP), both prepared in 2022, provided important input for determining FMO’s climate-related IROs. Impacts Both positive and negative impacts take place downstream in our investment portfolio. The impact of our own operations or those of our upstream suppliers are not considered material because of the small scale of emissions compared to those in our portfolio. The CAP describes how FMO actively monitors its activities and portfolio, thereby identifying actual and potential future GHG emission sources and other climate-related impacts within its operations and across its value chains. The intent of our data/ information collection drive is not only to use the information we gather for reporting and compliance purposes, but to actively manage our portfolio better, and to tailor our climate actions towards what is most effective. We will continue to work on improving our internal management and reporting systems to actively manage progress towards our sustainability goals. As part of our ESG management process we uphold IFC Performance Standard 3 (IFC PS3) (addressing resource efficiency and pollution prevention), which includes minimizing the pollution from project activities. When project related emissions are potentially significant, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g. use of renewable energy sources, sustainable agricultural, the reduction of fugitive emissions, etc.) that avoid or reduce emissions in order to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment (IFC PS3). FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for integrating emission reduction into product design and operational processes (IFC PS3). Specifically, ""this applies to the release of pollutants to air, water, and land due to routine, non- routine, and accidental circumstances with the potential for local, regional, and transboundary impacts."" Transboundary pollutants include those covered under the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary 134 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Air Pollution, such VOCs that are key precursors in the formation of tropospheric ozone and particulate matter (of which black carbon is a significant component). This means that by upholding the IFC PS we indirectly screen investments for climate-related impacts, such as black carbon and tropospheric ozone. FMO reports on financed absolute emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 in line with the GHG Protocol, as described in more detail in section 'E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions'. The financed absolute GHG emissions are reported in line with the Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry published by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). Although emissions from FMO operations are not considered material, we will continue to report scope 1 and 2 emissions to be able to present a full picture of our GHG emission footprint. Risks & opportunities The material climate-related risks and opportunities for FMO occur both upstream and downstream in the investment portfolio. The climate-related risks identified in the DMA are aligned with internal risk assessment processes and documents. The assessment of climate risks happens on an ongoing basis at FMO. We run a portfolio scan on a quarterly basis that is reported to the Financial Risk Committee (FRC), which monitors our portfolio’s exposure to physical and transition risks. We also conduct materiality assessments which determine the potential for climate risk drivers to affect FMO’s portfolio or the entity itself. Both processes are discussed with the FRC. Furthermore, work is ongoing to embed climate risk assessments at the organizational level as well as within the investment cycle. The regular climate risk assessments inform the Financial Risk team’s decisions. Scenarios are considered and factors are stressed in FMO’s Internal Capital and Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Processes (ICAAP and ILAAP), which are aligned with our regular Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) cycle. FMO’s physical climate risks were assessed over the current, medium and long-term using a high- emissions scenario and in line with guidelines from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the ECB guide on Climate-related and Environmental Risks. While the climate risk assessment covers physical risks and transition risks, the various time horizons and high-emissions scenario were applied only to physical risks. FMO is currently working on further defining a methodology to assess transition risks that is suitable for the markets in which it operates. The climate risks associated with FMO’s investment portfolio are also described in FMO’s first climate risk report, which, as mentioned above, are aligned with the climate-related risks identified in the DMA. This report was written in line with the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) requirements and shows that FMO’s portfolio is exposed to climate change risks, which will increase over time, with clear differences across locations, sectors and hazard types. This analysis, as well as those resulting from FMO’s ICAAP and ILAAP and continuous monitoring, served as input for the DMA, where additional transition risks (and opportunities) were identified. The climate scenarios used are currently independent of the financial models, as FMO currently does not include climate-related assumptions in the financial models. FMO will explore assessing possible inclusion of climate-related risks in our financial models based on expected credit losses. As part of our DMA, we identified a specific downstream (portfolio) risk related to water (E3) that we feel is better addressed under the risk of climate hazards here in E1: “There is a global risk of increased water scarcity due to climate change, increased water withdrawals and unsustainable water practices. This affects costs of production through higher water prices and leads to reduced crop yield and failure.” This is covered by the current climate hazards risk described in Table 14. Physical risks FMO plans to perform a physical risk assessment in line with the recommendations set out by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the ECB guide on Climate-related and Environmental Risks (ECB, 2021). For this reason we have developed a C&E risk assessment tool that supports the identification and monitoring of C&E risks at the customer level. The tool currently focuses mainly on physical climate risks. 135 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Various physical risks (flooding, temperature extremes, fire, water stress, drought, erosion, tropical cyclones and crop yield loss) are assessed based on a multiplication of hazard scores at specific locations or regions and sensitivity scores (specific to the sector/industry of the investment/business activity) to these hazards. The climate-related physical hazards have been identified over current-, medium- and long-term time horizons. For the physical climate risks, current-, medium- and long-term time horizons have been defined as follows: Current-term: 2011-2040 Medium-term: 2041-2070 Long-term: 2071-2100 These time horizons are different from the time horizons specified by the ESRS. The time horizons used are in line with standard practice in the climate science community, where climate refers to the long- term weather pattern in a region, typically averaged over 30 years. In some cases, if the original data source did not overlap with these time horizons, the closest time period was chosen. The physical risk assessments are currently not tied to the lifetime of the exposure. Even if human-induced climate changes would not materialize in the near future under the climatological time horizon, foreseen changes may already affect investment decisions and other financial parameters today and therefore materialize earlier from a financial risk perspective, within the time horizons as specified by the ESRS. The ICAAP assessments consider climate risks over a period of three years. Physical risks hazards are estimated to affect FMO’s customers in various locations and sectors to different extents, according to the climate risk assessment. The physical risks assessed in the climate risk assessments were summarized as one physical risk in the DMA. The various physical risks for FMO’s relevant industries are assessed on an ongoing basis and reported through regular reviews within internal committees at portfolio level. To increase the granularity and understanding of these risks, FMO is currently in the process of rolling out physical climate risk assessments in the investment process, complementing the assessment at portfolio level as mentioned above. The scores for physical hazards were created for both acute and chronic hazard types under a high emissions or worst-case climate scenario, which is the IPCC RCP 8.5 scenario. RCP 4.5 was also considered, but the projections from RCP 8.5 cover a greater range of climate conditions, especially for the long-term time horizon. Furthermore, the temperature and rainfall changes are more intense under RCP 8.5, and the long-term projections from RCP 4.5 are quite similar to the medium-term projection from RCP 8.5. In conclusion, RCP 8.5 covers a wider range of climate conditions (more extremes) for the risk assessment, so we believe this is the more appropriate choice, as it better covers potential risks and uncertainties. RCP 8.5 makes the following assumptions about policies, macro-economic trends, energy usage and mix, and technology: Policy Assumptions: It assumes minimal or no additional climate policies beyond those already in place, leading to high GHG emissions. Macroeconomic Trends: The scenario includes assumptions about high population growth and relatively slow income growth. Energy Usage and Mix: It projects high energy demand with a continued reliance on fossil fuels, resulting in significant GHG emissions. Technology Assumptions: The scenario assumes modest rates of technological change and improvements in energy intensity, meaning that advancements in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies are not sufficient to offset the high energy demand. The scores for physical hazards were derived from climate models listed in the IPCC CMIP5 and CMIP6 protocols, where available. Each hazard was evaluated using a specifically chosen modeling method and simulated hazard exposure outputs from leading, peer-reviewed research institutions, and was further developed in partnership with well-known research institutions. The risk scores were created and standardized at an approximate 50x50 km spatial resolution as a level 1 detailed product. If grid location or country data was missing for an investment or loan, it was excluded from the analysis. Additionally, if 136 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the provided location data was not at least at the country level (e.g. listed as ‘Global’ or ‘Latin America’), it was also not included in the analysis. Transition risks Transition risks are described in FMO’s climate risk methodology. FMO is currently in the process of adjusting its transition risk methodology with a specific focus on considering how this risk can materialize and affect clients in unique ways based on the different markets where FMO invests. In addition, further developments are ongoing, for example: The Paris Alignment methodology was developed in 2023-2024, and it will apply to new investments after its implementation (as described in further detail in E1-3). ICAAP and ILAAP stress testing as described in 'E1 Resilience Analysis'. The transition risks identified in the current assessment framework are focused on industry sensitivities. Additionally, transitional risks and opportunities were identified and scored as material during the DMA 2024 process due to the inputs from interviews and discussions with the project group. We currently do not perform a climate transition risk assessment for new investments, but only at portfolio level. FMO evaluates its exposures to transition risk at portfolio level by considering industry sensitivities, as well as a range of specific energy technologies, various transition risk (drivers) and scale possible risk exposure from 1-5. These risks were taken as input for the DMA, which have been summarized into three transition risks, as presented in the overview table at the start of this section. The risks outlined in the (internal) climate risk assessment align with the risks identified by the DMA. The transition risk assessment at portfolio level analyzes the transition risks (policy and legal; technology- related; market-related and reputational risks) for the various sectors in our portfolio in more detail than the DMA provides. Furthermore, our ICAAP 2022 includes information on the identification of transition events and assessment of exposure informed by climate-related scenario analysis. Our ICAAP from 2023 covers more detail on transition events, and an assessment of exposure based on the stress test assumptions for transition risk, where a disorderly transition is tested. The transition risk assessments mentioned in the 2022 risk assessment are less mature than the physical risks. We are currently updating the transition risk assessment methodology. The transition risks are not yet linked to current-, medium- and long-term time horizons, and these horizons have not been yet defined (transition trends, however, have been linked to current-, medium- and long-term time horizons). We have finalized the methodology for Paris Alignment in 2024. This methodology will enable FMO to identify activities that are incompatible with, or need significant efforts to be compatible with, transition to an economy that is aligned with the climate goals in the Paris Agreement. New transactions will be assessed for alignment with the Paris Agreement goals once the methodology has been rolled out. In the remainder of the E1 chapter, we describe the policies, actions, targets and decarbonization levers related to the IROs that were identified during the DMA, as well as FMO's resilience analysis. E1 Resilience analysis The section 'E1-IRO' describes the material climate-related risks, including whether they are classified as physical or transition risks. To determine the resilience of both its investment portfolio and its own operations, FMO is required by the DNB to assess material risks under the Internal ICAAP and ILAAP through stress testing. FMO’s upstream value chain is not included in this resilience assessment and was also not found to be material by the DMA. The ICAAP and ILAAP assessments are conducted every year, though the depth of the assessments differs depending on whether a SREP runs in a specific year. The frequency of the latter is decided upon by the DNB based on the risk profile of the institution but is typically done on an annual basis. The ICAAP and 137 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"ILAAP assessments are aligned with FMO’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), which formulates the type and amount of risk that the bank is able and willing to accept in pursuit of its strategy. The 2023 version of the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments was the latest one that was part of a SREP. Some additional analyses took place in Q1 of 2024 based on feedback from DNB. Part of the input for the stress tests that were performed for this assessment cycle was based on a Climate Risk Analytics Methodology for FMO to identify material climate risks. Based on the assessment of physical risks by using this methodology, the countries and hazards with the highest severity and likelihood have been selected as input to the stress test. Transition risks have also been included, based on scenarios developed by the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS). Based on the outcomes of the DMA, the focus of FMO’s climate-related risks is on its investment portfolio rather than its own operations or upstream value chain. All material risks as identified in DMA were already included in the materiality assessment underlying the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments. The 2023 ICAAP and ILAAP assessments used 2022 as a base year to make a forecast for the period 2023 - 2025.The climate risk stress testing includes both physical and transition risks, based on established climate scenarios (IPCC, NGFS) to evaluate potential impact on FMO’s portfolio. The ICAAP and ILAAP assessment use stress testing scenarios that include macroeconomic factors, such as currency fluctuations and market volatility. A ‘disorderly transition’ scenario to a low-carbon economy has been formulated with help of experts, which has been used to evaluate potential transitions risks for FMO. This scenario assumed 1) policy & legal risks in the form of carbon pricing, asset stranding, and rising insurance costs, 2) technology and innovation risks in the form of advancements in renewable energy and battery technologies, 3) market risks resulting from changing consumer and market sentiments, and 4) reputation risks resulting from adverse reputational impacts, such as changing perceptions of financing high-carbon activities. The stress tests show that FMO is resilient to material climate risks. Both physical and transition risks under different scenarios have limited impact on liquidity and are within the risk appetite formulated by FMO. Additionally, FMO’s capital position remains adequate, and the excess capital remains robust under all circumstances simulated by the stress test scenarios. Specifically, the climate risks scenarios show that, despite the risks that are relevant for FMO and for the markets in which FMO operates, the impact on the capital position is estimated to remain limited. There were several limitations to the resilience analysis. First, the definition of the physical climate risks used include the fact that the risk definitions are ex-ante and model based, do not include potential adaptation measures, and use a top-down, national level approach. Reliability for these types of risks was further limited by the use of proxy data to fill in data gaps, applying averages over long time- periods, and not including all potential hazards. Secondly, with regards to transition risks, the risk assessment is predominantly based on qualitative information, reducing its systemization and comparability, and not allowing for granularity (e.g., at country-level). While there are inherent uncertainties to climate change and society’s response to it, FMO continues to improve its methodology and run (stress) scenario analyses to capture plausible but severe scenarios for the institution. As mentioned previously, the stress testing done for the resilience analysis is in line with FMO’s RAF. The RAF is monitored, managed and revised regularly to accommodate any market or organizational changes, and is reviewed by the Management Board and approved by the Supervisory Board on an annual basis. If necessary, it can be revised on a semi-annual basis in case of material developments. The outcomes of the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments are used to formulate possible strategic responses. Climate- and environmental risks are inherently material to FMO’s business model & strategic risks, but this risk is also well managed by means of monitoring and reviewing of its business environment and strategic planning embedded within the organization and periodically reviewed with its stakeholders. Currently, the conclusion is that the risks to capital and liquidity related to climate change are well- managed by FMO and do not constitute a risk for the resilience of the business model. In addition to monitoring and managing risks, FMO has a pro-active investment strategy that contributes to climate adaptation and mitigation worldwide, also specifically aiming to increase the resilience of its customers, by engaging actively with them to define climate adaptation solutions and 138 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
""
"E3 Water and Marine Resources E3 Introduction FMO recognizes the critical role of water management in supporting climate and nature goals, ecosystems, and economic development. FMO invests in projects dependent on freshwater resources in the water, energy and agrifood portfolios, and impacts are expected regarding both water quality and water availability. As part of the impact management strategy, FMO has an ambition to invest in water efficient projects that align with the wider goals of environmental protection, safeguard affected communities, and ensure the sustainable use of water resources. By addressing water impacts, FMO aims to contribute to sustainable development and help mitigate the negative impacts of climate change on water resources. E3 Impacts, risks and opportunities The following table provides an overview of how each impact, risk and opportunity (IRO) relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. The impacts caused by our own operations fell below the materiality threshold. However, two negative impacts in our investment portfolio are considered to be material. It should be noted that the double materiality assessment (DMA) for E1 on Climate included a Climate Risk Assessment, through which a material financial risk related to water dependency was identified. This risk will be reported under 'E1 Climate change' as it relates to climate change effects that lead to increased water scarcity. Table 23. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Water withdrawals Actual negative impact The actual negative impacts on water quality and availability resulting from significant water usage or degradation by customers and/or projects financed by FMO. Water scarcity and degradation undermine the long-term sustainability of water resources, posing risks to ecosystems, biodiversity, and the livelihoods of communities dependent on water for agriculture and other purposes Degraded water quality and reduced availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target Water withdrawals Actual negative impact Actual impact on water withdrawals through the creation of reservoirs because of construction of hydro power dams and/or generators by our customers. Water availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target E3-1 Policies Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material water- related IROs. The Sustainability Policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts in our downstream value chain and is part of the Sustainability Policy Universe. The ESG management approach for screening and monitoring customers with regard to potential negative impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. FMO has adopted 169 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) as its operating standard. The following documents are relevant for water: a. IFC PS3, 4 and 6 provide specific guidance on water related topics, as they respectively cover Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, Community Health, Safety, and Security, and Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. b. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. FMO’s policies that address water-related impacts are aimed at reducing the material negative impacts downstream in FMO’s value chain. FMO aims to support customers to improve their sustainable use of natural resources, such as water, and to prevent degradation of ecosystems. FMO assesses its direct and indirect potential and existing investments over time according to ESG criteria such as the presence and quality of the E&S management system, availability, quantity and quality of resources such as water for local communities and related impacts on resource efficiency including the consumption and use of water. The scope of this assessment applies to the financed activities and their primary suppliers, though FMO may look beyond the direct financed activities when salient risks are expected in the value chain. Potable water availability or sanitary wastewater collection, treatment, or discharge are also considered, whereby opportunities are explored to improve these aspects, especially where these can be provided at marginal cost to the project. When projects are a potentially significant consumer of water, in addition to applying the resource efficiency requirements of the IFC PS3, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g., use of additional water conservation measures, the use of alternative water supplies, water consumption offsets, evaluation of alternative project locations) that avoid or reduce water usage so that the project’s water consumption does not have significant negative impacts. FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for improving efficiency in its consumption of water, integrating the principles of cleaner production into product design and production processes with the objective of conserving water. Policies related to water management pertain to an organization's own operations. Since FMO's own operations were not identified as material in the DMA, this type of water management policies is not relevant for FMO. Since the water-related impacts that were identified to be material for FMO are not related to our own operations, there are no policies required to address water stress near one of FMO’s operating sites. E3-2 Key actions As part of the normal due diligence process, we identify performance gaps against our standards, and we agree with our customers on improvements that are required in relation to negative impacts on water and marine resources (e.g. impact of hazardous materials on ecosystem services, degradation of natural resources, water usage etc.). These improvements are translated into an action plan (ESAP) which is incorporated into the contract. The ESAP also stipulates timelines for the customers to close the actions (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'). Compliance with the ESAP and closing of actions is monitored as part of the customer credit review process which takes place annually. Where incidents take place, a corrective action plan may be required to mitigate and possibly remediate the impact; this can be agreed with the customer. E3-3 Targets FMO has not adopted targets related to water resources. However, FMO’s 90 percent ESG performance target includes but is not limited to water impact from related investments (incl. IFC PS3, 4 and 6). Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. 170 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E4 Introduction FMO recognizes the value of ecosystems that form the natural capital for the world economy. Their degradation poses a direct risk for FMO’s customers and the societies in which they operate. When we talk about biodiversity, we look at it from a broader perspective, taking into consideration nature and natural capital. While biodiversity and nature are not always explicitly singled out as specific objectives in the way FMO manages on sustainability-related matters (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO Management'). FMO’s impact management procedures are aligned with environmental conservation, sustainable use of natural resources, and protection of ecosystems. Furthermore, they promote consideration of how investments affect biodiversity and the pursuit of investments that support nature-based solutions and conservation goals. FMO aims to achieve positive impacts through biodiversity finance that are focused on for instance nature-based solutions and forestry- and regenerative agriculture investments. As per the 2030 Strategy, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity. Together with our partners, FMO committed to engage on climate adaptation and resilience, and biodiversity, by creating coalitions with key nature conservancy organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, promoting community and stakeholder engagement. E4 Impacts, risks and opportunities Table 24 below gives an overview of how each material IRO relates to policies, actions, and targets, which will be covered in the sections of this statement. Table 24. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential negative impact Impact on biodiversity from AFW investments as a result of land-use changes (e.g. deforestation, conversion of natural landscapes), insufficient consideration of the habitat function of agricultural lands through the introduction of monocrops or the use of non-native species agricultural production or poor water management, can contribute to habitat degradation. Land-use change Medium term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in hydro power plants by impacting marine/freshwater species migration paths and changing of natural hydrological cycles. Negative impacts from investments in hydro power plants Short term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target 171 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in large-scale wind turbines can affect bird and other animal migration paths, and can lead to the loss and fragmentation of wildlife habitat. Negative impacts of investments in large-scale wind turbines Medium term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in large-scale solar panels that can lead to the loss and fragmentation of wildlife habitat. Negative impacts of investments in large-scale solar panels Medium term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential positive impact Impact on biodiversity and other ecosystems through the financing of AFW investments and projects that are specifically aimed at ecosystem restoration and regeneration. Finance projects that restore and regenerate ecosystems Long term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy Increase volume of investments related to biodiversity. SDG 13 target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Opportunity The opportunity for FMO to identify, create and develop new markets with a biodiversity positive impact (e.g. forestry projects, regenerative agriculture) into bankable projects, to deploy and attract public or private funds and generate return on investment at scale. Opportunity to develop new biodiversity positive markets Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy Increase volume of investments related to biodiversity. No specific target We identified biodiversity and ecosystems to be a material topic because of our potential and actual positive and negative impacts from our investments in the agrifood, water, and energy sectors (downstream value chain), and because of the developments in biodiversity-positive financing markets that can create material opportunities for FMO. However, currently we do not consider biodiversity a material topic from the financial risk perspective. For more details, please refer to our double materiality assessment process (DMA) as described in 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment'. As part of our assessment on the materiality of the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems in our own operations and downstream value chain we conducted desk research into the agrifood, water and energy sectors looking into international sector standards, peers, trends, and media coverage. Additionally, we considered FMO’s 2030 Strategy and current ways of working (such as our ESG management process, climate risk assessment, Green Label assessments, and forestry strategy). As such, we took into consideration impact drivers such as climate change, land-use change, the impact on marine and freshwater-use, direct exploitation and invasive alien species and pollution, as well as impacts on the state of species, impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems and impacts and dependencies on ecosystem services. While our DMA was being conducted, we were also in the process of creating a methodology to assess our dependency on nature. As this methodology was still in early stages of development during the reporting period, we did not take it into consideration during our DMA. For the methodology to assess dependencies on nature we are applying the ENCORE (Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure) materiality ratings to help evaluate our exposure to nature- 172 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"related risks, and to better understand our dependencies and impacts on nature. We expect to continue developing our methodology and improving our ways of assessing dependencies and risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Our Climate Risk Report (see 'E1 - Impact, Risk and opportunity management') formed part of the input for the material risks and opportunities determined in our DMA. Our climate risk assessment explicitly covers physical and transition risks related to climate change, which also indirectly impacts nature, biodiversity and ecosystems. Within the climate risk assessment, the relevant risks for biodiversity and ecosystems are sometimes direct and sometimes indirect (as climate change can affect ecosystems and biodiversity). These risks have been covered as material under 'E1 Climate Change' and we did not find any additional material nature-related risks during our DMA. The outcome of our DMA concluded that biodiversity-related outside-in financial risks are currently not material to FMO. However, as our methodology to assess our dependency on nature continues to develop, we may identify material biodiversity-related risks in the future. Exploring biodiversity-related opportunities has been embedded into our 2030 Strategy, in which we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity as part of our SDG 13 ambition through the growth of our Green Label investments portfolios. As our methodology for assessing dependency on nature is still under development and was not considered during the DMA, we have not yet taken systemic risks into consideration. We did not consult with potentially affected communities specifically for the purposes of the DMA. As discussed in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management', we apply the relevant IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) in our investment process and due diligence, which may require consultation of potentially affected communities (depending on the investment) in order to avoid causing negative impacts on communities. Our approach towards affected communities is described further in our ESRS statement 'S3 Affected communities'. As the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems is not material to FMO’s own operations, the potential impacts on ecosystem services of relevance to affected communities in FMO’s own operations are not applicable. FMO does not have sites of its own that can create material impacts on biodiversity. Some of our investments can take place in physical locations that may be in or near biodiversity sensitive areas. We manage potential negative impacts in our investment process with the implementation of IFC PS6 (Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources). We assess on an individual project level whether it is necessary to implement climate mitigation measures. Our relevant process is described further in the section 'E4-2 Policies'. E4-1 Transition plan We identified material potential positive and negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in our downstream value chain. Additionally, we are developing our methodology on how to assess our dependencies on nature, and we are in the process of identifying potential risks from ecosystem degradation, regulatory and market shifts, climate change and biodiversity loss. Lastly, we have identified biodiversity-related opportunities as part of our 2030 Strategy, where we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity towards our SDG 13 ambition and Green Label growth target. As discussed in the previous section of this statement and in section 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', no material biodiversity and ecosystems-related risks were identified during the DMA. Therefore, our conclusion from our DMA is that FMO is resilient in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems. The DMA covered FMO’s upstream and downstream value chain, and FMO’s own operations. The time horizons used for the DMA were in line with the time horizons mentioned in ESRS 1. Furthermore, no specific stakeholder engagement was performed for the purposes of the DMA on the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems. 173 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As mentioned before, during the reporting period we were developing our methodology to assess FMO’s risks and dependencies related to nature. This methodology covers our entire portfolio (downstream value chain). This work is still in its early stages, and we expect that as we continue to develop our methodology further in the coming years, our understanding of FMO’s resilience in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems will also evolve. Lastly, during the reporting period, we developed our ‘Biodiversity roadmap’ to outline how we plan to address impacts, risks and opportunities in biodiversity, and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance in line with our 2030 Strategy (see 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'). E4-2 Policies Our material potential impacts related to the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems are mainly addressed by one policy: the Sustainability Policy and the relevant supporting documents, which together form the FMO Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU). Our 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan describe FMO’s commitment to increase investments in biodiversity. Below is a description of the relevant documents within the SPU: Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material biodiversity-related IROs. A complete description of the Sustainability Policy is described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social (E&S) impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. This emphasizes mandatory consultation with the local population affected by the project and specific plans available to compensate for any negative effects. Exclusion list: FMO’s exclusion list requires that an investment may not result in the ‘significant conversion or degradation of critical habitats’. Primary forests or forests of a high conservation value are classified as critical habitats. ESG management. The general criteria for screening and monitoring customers with regard to negative/adverse impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The following standards are relevant for biodiversity: i. IFC PS1: Assessment and management of environmental and social risks and impacts in relation to communities as well as disadvantaged and vulnerable groups ii. IFC PS6: Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural resources iii. IFC PS3 and 4 address the impacts of customer activities on ecosystem services and areas of importance to biodiversity that affect local communities Green Label Guidelines: the Green Label Guidelines provide the methodology and criteria for how to identify investments that are ex ante expected to have the positive impact we aim to create through our portfolio, including when it comes to preserving and growing natural capital and promoting biodiversity. FMO’s material biodiversity-related IROs are provided in the overview Table at the start of this chapter. These cover the relevant biodiversity drivers mentioned in the application requirements for ESRS E4 (with the exception of pollution which was not identified as a material topic for FMO) and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities. In practice, our ESG management process involves identifying, managing and monitoring potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. Ecosystem services are the benefits that people, including businesses, derive from ecosystems. FMO requires customers to identify and avoid negative impacts on biodiversity or ecosystems. Specifically, this requires customers to identify potential negative impacts (IFC PS1 and IFC PS6) such as habitat loss, degradation and fragmentation, possibility of invasive alien species introduction, overexploitation of a habitat and pollution (IFC PS3) that arise as a result of their activities. Where these potential negative impacts cannot be avoided, mitigation strategies and measures (e.g., avoiding impacts through exclusion of land areas within a site for conservation, introducing biological corridors, habitat restoration during or after operations etc.) are to be developed by our customers to minimize the negative impacts (IFC PS6). 174 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"loans, guarantees, equity and technical assistance to our customers (our financing products), monitoring the portfolio's health (credit risk, impact, customer satisfaction, and compliance), and managing the overall investment lifecycle. Enabling activities to support our core operations include strategy setting, product management, policy and compliance definition, risk management, external reporting, sustainability and impact management, and various corporate functions like IT, finance, procurement as well as human resources as FMO acts as an international employer to the people that work for our organization. We need upstream shareholders and public and private investors to provide capital as well as key partners and key suppliers to support us in our business model. Our upstream value chain activities are, therefore, focused on attracting and mobilizing funds and capital to scale up our development impact. We use public funds to de-risk investments and to be able to attract private capital. We bring in commercial investors through syndicated loans or fund management. Our public investment partners include: the Dutch Government, the UK Government, the EC and the Green Climate Fund (GCF). Mobilization activities include loan syndications, participations by several private debt funds that FMO Investment Management (FMO IM) advises for and through unfunded risk participations by commercial parties such as commercial banks. In addition, we work with suppliers that provide goods and services. We only want to work with trustworthy suppliers and have put in place a due diligence process in line with the Dutch Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act (Wwft). This process applies to new or existing suppliers related to our main activities, such as consultants, legal advisors, government intermediaries and/or providers of critically outsourced services. This is set out in FMO’s Procurement and Outsourcing Policy. ESRS 2 Interests and views of stakeholders We engage with stakeholders for various purposes: to create partnerships, to invest together, to harmonize approaches, and/or to seek insights that inform our policies and approaches. In addition, we value the input we receive from various stakeholders on our (proposed) investments. Our stakeholders bring critical perspectives, alert us to different viewpoints, provide us with critical feedback, and challenge us to be more transparent and accountable as an organization. Through stakeholder dialogues we aim to better understand each other’s perspectives and find ways to strengthen our collaboration. These dialogues help us to reflect on and enhance our risk assessment practices. Overall, most stakeholders engage with us because of the impact we aim to achieve through our investments. FMO stakeholders and stakeholder management Our customers, the State of the Netherlands, shareholders, employees, investors, NGOs, supervisors, other DFIs/IFIs and regulators are among our most important stakeholders. Engagement can take various forms, from day-to-day, business-as-usual engagement to more strategic and planned engagements, such as regular meetings, surveys, forums and stakeholder dialogues. FMO distinguishes between three stakeholder groups: 1) FMO’s own workforce, 2) external stakeholders FMO engages with at an investment level and 3) corporate stakeholder groups. 1. FMO’s own workforce include employees with an employment contract with FMO or a regional office subsidiary and contractors, consultants and secondees. Non-employees include a variety of individuals such as contractors (including ZZP), consultants and secondees. All managers, directors and Management Board members are responsible for employee engagement. 2. External stakeholders include customers, local communities and employees employed by our customers as well as other (positively/negatively) affected individuals. The relationships with our customers are managed by FMO’s investment teams, including ESG and impact specialists. 3. Corporate stakeholder groups include private investors such as FMO shareholders, syndicated partners and investors in FIM funds, the Dutch government (also as a shareholder), the Dutch Parliament, supervisor and regulator, NGOs, media and international partners (the EC, Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), and (European) Development Finance Institutions ((E)DFIs). These relationships are overseen by the following internal functions within FMO: Corporate Stakeholder Engagement, Risk, Partnerships for Impact and the Corporate Secretary. Policies FMO believes that transparency and accountability in its financing and investments are fundamental to fulfilling its development mandate. It allows us to improve our investment decisions and helps us be transparent to our stakeholders about whether FMO is achieving what it intends. 115 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"To facilitate this, FMO adheres to a Customer Disclosure Policy, outlining the scope and type of information that it makes available to the public. In addition to the disclosure of its annual reports, press releases and corporate- and policy-related disclosure, FMO also discloses selected relevant information about its investments and financing, both prior to (explicitly inviting comments from the stakeholder community), and after contracting. Table 3. Minimum disclosure requirements for Customer Disclosure Policy Scope of policy All investments involving FMO debt and equity transactions Accountable body Management Board Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) IFC PS, EDFI’s Principles for Responsible Financing of Sustainable development Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) Stakeholders are invited to provide comments on our investments, prior to and after contracting Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) Customer Disclosure Policy is publicly available on our website As a DFI, we are sensitive to the social context and environment in which we are active. The businesses and projects we invest in have an important impact on local communities and society at large. Therefore, we integrate stakeholder considerations and information, based on consultation with stakeholders (including affected communities, in line with the IFC PS), into our investment decision- making and we monitor whether decisions will further contribute to the quality and positive impact of FMO’s investments and also ensure community support. For more information, see our Sustainability Policy. FMO makes a distinction between project-related complaints and general complaints. General complaints can be communicated in writing. For project-related complaints, FMO has implemented an Independent Complaints Mechanism (ICM) and accompanying procedures. The ICM ensures the right to be heard for complainants who feel affected by an FMO-financed operation, facilitating dispute resolution and assisting FMO in drawing lessons learned. The ICM Policy describes the structure and governance of the complaints procedure, which allows affected external parties to file a complaint concerning a project financed by FMO. For more information on the project-related complaints procedure, refer to 'S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels to raise concerns'. Table 4. Minimum disclosure requirements for Independent Complaints Mechanism Policy Scope of policy The mechanism applies to FMO-financed operations Accountable body Management Board Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) IFC PS, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) We invite stakeholders to give their views on new (draft) ICM Policy via public consultation before finalizing the policy. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) ICM policy can be found publicly on our website FMO reports on the number admissible complaints received through the ICM. Details of this entity- specific metric and results are included in the following table. In 2024, no complaint was found admissible by the ICM's Independent Expert Panel relating to non-respect of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Table 5. Minimum disclosure requirements for metrics: new admissible complaints received Methodology and assumptions Number of complaints filed with the ICM that were declared admissible by the Independent Expert Panel (IEP) are defined as 'New admissible complaints received'. When the IEP groups several complaints pertaining to the same project as one case, this is treated as one complaint. An admissible complaint is a complaint for which the IEP has decided that it meets the admissibility criteria. These are specified in the ICM policy, which can be accessed on our website. 116 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit Number 2024 0 admissible complaints 2023 0 admissible complaints Stakeholder engagement and outcomes We are in constant dialogue with various stakeholders. Throughout the years, at a corporate level we have taken the outcomes of stakeholder engagement into account in, among other things: FMO’s strategy development (2030 Strategy: Pioneer-Develop-Scale) FMO’s double materiality assessment FMO’s Sustainability Policy FMO’s position statements FMO’s Customer Disclosure Policy The Independent Complaints Mechanism FMO’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) During the development of our long-term 2030 Strategy Pioneer – Develop – Scale we consulted internal stakeholders (including FMO’s employees) and external stakeholders. For this consultation, meetings were held with the Dutch Ministry of Finance, Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs, DNB, NGOs, (E)DFIs, private banks, commercial finance partners, and the European Commission (EC). At the start of the strategic development process, FMO collected the key topics and expectations of these stakeholders, which was part of the foundation for the further development of the long-term strategy. The Dutch Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Finance provided their vision during various stages of the strategy development process. During the materiality assessment, FMO takes the views and interests of stakeholders into account. We do this either by consulting them directly or integrating knowledge about stakeholder interests coming out of regular stakeholder engagement activities as described in this section. When developing or updating policy statements, we invite stakeholders to give their views on new policies and position statements that guide our investment process and decision-making. For example, in 2016, we developed a comprehensive Sustainability Policy, taking into account more than 300 comments from various parties from society, government and customers. We are active participants in a number of multi-stakeholder dialogues. At an investment level, the outcomes of stakeholder engagement are taken into account via our due diligence process. Stakeholder and community engagement is a key principle embedded within the IFC PS. This means that FMO is committed to actively engaging with affected stakeholders and local communities throughout the project lifecycle in order to understand their concerns, incorporate their perspectives into decision-making processes, and mitigate any negative impacts on them. On an ad-hoc basis, FMO also engages with value chain workers as part of its monitoring. For more information refer to section 'ESRS 2 - IRO management' and specific information on this type of stakeholder engagement in the sections 'S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers', 'S3-2 Processes for engaging with affected communities' and 'S4-2 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users'. The Integrity and Issue Management Committee (IIMC) is a sub-committee of the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) and is appointed by the Management Board. The IIMC monitors and advises on designated projects, transactions, and customers on a corporate and project level, including where applicable complaints related matters brought forward via the ICM for proposed, active and completed/ exited investments. The Management Board is informed of the views and interests of FMO project affected stakeholders on a case-by-case basis and the Supervisory Board (through the Management Board) via quarterly periodic briefs. For example, when there is a material impact voiced via 1) ex-ante (prior to commitment) disclosure questions; 2) NGO questions; or 3) (ongoing) complaints with the ICM. 117 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"FMO regularly conducts employee surveys to gauge employee satisfaction and engagement levels. For more information on how we engage with our employees please refer to the sub-chapter 'S1 - Own Workforce'. Future steps towards our stakeholder dialogues In 2024, we worked on an outline policy for effective dialogue with the relevant corporate stakeholders, which will be published as a position statement in the first quarter of 2025. This policy will enable FMO to effectively decide: (i) if engagement is needed for specific topics, (ii) which stakeholders should be involved, (iii) what the timelines are for this engagement process and (iv) how the process should be organized. Currently, the ICM Policy is being revised. Input from stakeholders will be sought by a public consultation of the draft policy, to enhance and clarify the policy and increase the trust and buy-in of stakeholders. Advocacy NGOs are especially interested in the ICM because they use it to escalate their complaints. NGOs that have requested to be able to provide input at an early stage – before public consultation – have been engaged with to share their views. ESRS 2 IRO management FMO manages material sustainability-related matters, including material impacts, risks and opportunities, through various policies and actions. Material impacts, risks and opportunities identified for S1 and G1 relate to FMO's own operations and are, therefore, managed by FMO's Human Resources and Compliance departments. Material impacts, risks and opportunities identified for E1, E3, E4, S2, S3 and S4 relate to FMO's customers and investments (downstream value chain) and are managed as part of our investment process. In addition, FMO has developed an impact management framework to ensure it takes an integrated approach to managing positive and negative impacts – potential and actual – as well as the financial risks that may result from the negative impacts in its investment portfolio. Our management approach to our own workforce and business conduct are described in the S1 and G1 topical statements, respectively. Our approach to impact management is common across E1, E3, E4, S2, S3 and S4 and is described in the following section. Negative impacts and the resulting financial risks are managed through ESG management practices. Negative impacts on people and the environment could result in financial risks, leading to, for example, financial (remediation, legal) costs to FMO or its customer, jeopardize access to capital for FMO (from external investors), jeopardizing the license to operate, jeopardizing shareholder relations or reputational damage. This is further described in the paragraphs relating to ESG management. Positive impacts are managed through allocating and structuring capital towards the SDGs, mostly through our Reducing Inequalities (RI) and Green Labels. This is further described in the paragraphs relating to impact management. Figure 2. Impact management framework Strategy and policy FMO’s impact and sustainability commitments are outlined in FMO’s Sustainability Policy, which was first approved by FMO’s Management Board in 2016. The policy is complemented by our exclusion list, 118 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"position statements on – among other things – human rights, land governance, fossil fuels and coal, and impact and ESG for financial intermediaries. Together, these documents form the Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU), available on our website. FMO requires, that all customers comply with applicable environmental, social and human rights laws in their home and host countries. In addition, FMO upholds (inter)national standards, including the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Client Protection Principles (CPPs). In addition, FMO has adopted the IFC PS (2012) as its operating standard. FMO requires its customers to comply with these standards and in doing so to identify, prevent and mitigate negative social and environmental impacts. FMO’s Sustainability Policy and position statements apply to all our new investments. This includes both direct investments and investments through financial intermediaries. This policy is the foundation of our impact management framework and provides guidance for FMO’s internal processes. FMO considers this policy a living document. It will be updated based on lessons learned and input from FMO’s stakeholders. Our Sustainability Policy and position statements undergo targeted and public consultation with various relevant stakeholder groups (e.g. the Dutch government, DFI partners, (commercial) peers, (inter)national Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and think tanks, and relevant (industry) standard organizations) during the development process and every three years, are formally approved by the Management Board. Table 6. Minimum disclosure requirements for FMO’s Sustainability Policy Scope of policy The scope of this policy extends to FMO’s entire footprint. This includes FMO’s activities at the organizational level and new investments with respect to all products provided by FMO. The nature of the services FMO delivers can in some situations limit FMO’s level of influence. FMO will then apply this policy to the greatest extent possible. This Policy is the foundation of our sustainability management and provides guidance to FMO’s internal processes. This Sustainability Policy is the leading part of a broader Sustainability Policy Universe (see Annex 1 of the Policy) that also encompasses thematic and sectoral Position Statements that complement the Sustainability Policy and give further depth and content to the choices FMO makes. Accountable body Management Board with approval delegated to Impact and Sustainability Committee (ISCO) Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) As part of the Sustainability Policy, FMO upholds various (inter)national standards. They are listed in the policy, which is publicly available. With respect to the management of environmental and social impact, the primary standards that FMO upholds are the IFC PS and the associated World Bank Group Environmental Health and Safety Guidelines. They cover the larger part of the ESG requirements in the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises, which also reference the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) We invite stakeholders to give their views on new policies and position statements that guide our investment process and decision-making. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) Sustainability Policy Universe, as well as a document describing how FMO navigates dilemmas and issues are all published on FMO’s website. Allocate and structure capital FMO’s policy requirements are translated into internal investment criteria that are applied and assessed at the investment level where FMO assesses both the positive and negative impacts to define the boundaries of where we allocate capital. The exclusion lists and ESG risk appetite define the boundaries for negative impacts. Our labels highlight the potential that individual investments must contribute to certain principles and objectives. The RI and Green Labels help classify individual investments as per their ex-ante (prior to commitment) potential to materially contribute to SDG 10 Reducing Inequalities and SDG 13 Climate Action respectively, thereby allocating capital towards FMO’s strategic impact ambitions. 119 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"For each investment, FMO measures volume indicators (assets under management) which include FMO’s RI and Green-labelled total committed portfolio. Labelling processes are operationalized using FMO’s Sustainability Information System (SIS). Reducing Inequalities Label The RI Label steers toward investments that have the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to SDG 10. Two objectives underlie the RI Label: increase investment in least developed countries (reducing inequality between countries) and increase investment in inclusive growth (reducing inequality within countries). Each of these has a set of principles, definitions and criteria. We report on RI-labelled total new investments. More information on the 2024 performance results is provided in the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy' in the section 'Sector performance'. Table 7. Minimum disclosure requirements for RI-labelled total new investments Methodology and assumptions New investment is the aggregate commitment made to a customer in a specific reporting period by FMO and PIM Funds, and by private participants and other public participants directly mobilized by FMO. For the calculation of new investment per participant, the aggregate commitment is allocated to the participants based on their credit risk exposure to the customer. The RI Label is an SDG Label indicating an Instrument has the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to the SDG 10 objectives. Two objectives underlie the RI Label: increase investment in LDCs (reducing inequalities between countries) and increase investment in inclusive growth (reducing inequalities within countries, focusing on gender and youth). Each of these objectives has a set of principles, definitions and criteria. The RI percentage is the share of an investment that is approved for the RI Label. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit EUR million 2024 2,250 2023 1,140 Green Label The Green Label steers toward investments that have ex-ante potential to materially contribute to SDG 13. The Green Label is defined by FMO’s green principles, its objectives, and definitions that clarify FMO’s approach to meeting these objectives. We report on Green-labelled total new investments. More information on the 2024 performance results is provided in the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy' in the section 'Sector performance'. Table 8. Minimum disclosure requirements for Green-labelled total new investments Methodology and assumptions New investment is the aggregate commitment made to a customer in a specific reporting period by FMO and PIM Funds, and by private participants and other public participants directly mobilized by FMO. For the calculation of new investments per participant, the aggregate commitment is allocated to the participants based on their credit risk exposure to the customer. The Green Label is an SDG Label indicating an investment has the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to the SDG 13 objectives, including climate mitigation, climate adaptation and resilience, water, circular economy and pollution prevention and biodiversity. The Green percentage is the share of an Instrument that is approved for Green Label. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit EUR million 2024 1,460 2023 1,091 Customer value creation At the customer level, FMO creates impact by contributing to improving financial and non-financial customer (or prospect) value, through a range of activities. These include the provision of investment, 120 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"financial and non-financial advisory services, development contributions, and inherent contributions. In addition, FMO contributes by identifying and mitigating negative impacts, and through the improvement of ESG performance. FMO’s engagement to generate value for customers overall also adds value to the wider market, the respective sectors and the ecosystem, and supports mutually beneficial progress towards our RI and Green Label targets. The following are sub-components of the way we support value creation at the customer level. ESG management at customer level Our investments may, unintentionally, lead to negative impacts on people and the environment. FMO is exposed to financial risks resulting from our investment selection, the effectiveness of customers to manage their impacts and the effectiveness of FMO’s engagement therein. At FMO, ESG management covers the management of both negative impacts as well as potential financial risks. As part of its investment process, FMO screens and categorizes all customers according to their gross ESG risk profile (i.e. risk that is inherent to the activity to be financed irrespective of a customers’ ESG performance). Based on this screening, the following categorization of customer E&S risk profiles is determined: A and B+ (high risk), B (medium risk) and C (low risk) for direct investments; and ID-A (high risk), ID-B+ (high risk), ID-B (medium risk) and ID-C (low risk) for indirect exposure through debt and PE funds. An initial assessment of the corporate governance (CG) risk for a customer is also conducted, resulting in a CG risk classification. Further, customers are evaluated on their potential negative impacts as well as their ESG performance, i.e. their capacity to manage these. Note that in the case of direct investments, E&S impact is assessed at customer-level. For indirect exposure to FIs, E&S impact is assessed by considering the operations as well as the investments of the FI (i.e. on a portfolio level basis). In particular, the FI customers’ level of exposure to high E&S impact sectors is considered. Similarly, in the case of funds, the E&S risk categories of the underlying investments the fund is composed of are taken into consideration when determining the funds' E&S risk profiles. For high E&S risk customers, we conduct site visits and stakeholder engagement, with further ESG requirements defined and negotiated as needed. Dedicated ESG specialists within FMO engage actively with all high-risk customers. The level and exact focus of engagement depend on the type and severity of impact and/or the extent to which the identified impact pose a threat to the environment, communities, the customer and/or FMO. FMO assesses the customers’ performance in mitigating and managing ESG impacts against the IFC PS. For each applicable standard, FMO monitors the customer’s performance against the standards. Impacts that are not adequately managed by high-risk customers are considered a performance gap, and recorded as such. The performance is assessed against the standards and is used to set the ESG performance target, described in the section 'ESG management at portfolio level'. FMO accepts a limited gap in successful ESG management to our standards. This gap acknowledges residual risk posed by contextual and implementation challenges in our market. FMO ESG specialists work with customers to develop Environmental and Social Action Plans (ESAPs) and Corporate Governance Action Plans (CGAPs) to enhance customer ESG impact management processes and remediate these gaps. FMO’s Credit department evaluates the ESG impacts and performance of each financial proposal and prepares credit advice to guide the final investment decision. Upon approval, all customer contracts will include ESG requirements, and FMO monitors the implementation of these requirements by our customers (throughout the investment period) through regular contact and site visits, often supported by independent consultants. Customer compliance against the ESAP and CGAP, as well as closing of actions, is monitored as part of the Customer Credit Review (CCR) process. In addition, FMO monitors serious incidents as reported by our customers or underperformance that would warrant corrective actions. We follow up on each incident to ensure a robust root cause analysis is conducted and corrective action implemented. For FMO’s high ESG risk customers, we monitor our exposure through FMO’s proprietary SIS. The net ESG risk exposure is the customers’ gross risk exposure corrected for by the customer’s performance managing down the negative impact. The methodology used to track performance for these high-risk customers is described in table 11 for number of customers with E&S performance gaps in portfolio. 121 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"ESG performance tracking in SIS is integrated within the investment process and forms the basis of FMO’s ESG performance target. ESG performance is monitored and updated throughout the lifetime of the investment as part of the annual review cycle of each customer, enabling FMO to have an up-to-date portfolio-wide view of the ESG negative impacts in its portfolio. Impact management at customer level At FMO, different teams contribute to different core elements relating to the management of positive impacts. This includes defining the strategic impact ambition of an investment aligned with 2030 Strategy ambitions, providing methodological guidance and defining reporting frameworks (how to measure), gathering data from customers and other sources, and recording this data in FMO’s SIS; and aggregating and reporting this data internally and externally. To measure, report and monitor the development impact of transactions, deal teams work with customers to define how the investment supports the core SDGs. They select approximately one to three impact indicators that best capture the intended positive impact of that investment and establish baselines and (where possible) time-specific expected values for these indicators. During the annual review process, customers report on the indicators. FMO engages with other European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI) to harmonize indicators to measure impact and align requirements across DFIs for customers. FMO strives towards alignment vis-à- vis the Harmonized Indicators for Private Sector Operations (HIPSO), the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), and Impact Reporting and Investment Standards Plus. Monitor and manage impact at portfolio level At the portfolio level, FMO manages and steers towards positive and negative impacts. FMO measures volume indicators. Impact management at portfolio level The volume indicators include FMO’s RI and Green-labelled total committed portfolio. FMO has a 2030 target of €10 billion for investments that will contribute towards SDG 10 Reduced Inequalities and SDG 13 Climate Action. The labels are a strategic steering tool to this end. In addition, FMO has identified several metrics to measure FMO’s contributions to the SDGs. While these metrics will be monitored for broader impact management purposes or external reporting requirements, only the metrics with a target are used to steer towards our strategic impact objectives. Table 9. Minimum disclosure requirements for SDG 10 Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) By 2030, we aim to have an investment portfolio of at least €10 billion in SDG 10 by financing assets that contribute to our SDG 10 objectives. Scope of target SDG 10 investments in the total committed portfolio Baseline value €4.0 billion Baseline year 2021 Application period 2023 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: €5,000 million 122 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Methodologies and assumptions The target has been established following the intent to double FMO’s impact regarding SDG 10 compared to the baseline year 2021. In the absence of a single impact metric, we focused on doubling the size of the relevant portfolios. Setting the target involved a forecasting exercise of the portfolio and subsequent internal discussions. Key assumptions for this target are that FMO can contribute to reducing inequalities within and between countries by steering investments towards 1) least developed countries or 2) activities that support inclusive growth. Hence, an investment can receive an ex-ante RI Label if the investment takes place in, or funds are expected to flow predominantly to LDCs (aligned with SDG 10.9) and/or if the investment is expected to contribute to inclusive business practices or targets the bottom 40 percent of the population (SDG 10.1). Portfolio trajectories per department were forecast during the 2030 Strategy process and SDG10 targets were confirmed with investment directorates, based on past and expected performance. It should be noted that portfolio growth was forecasted using a stable EUR/ USD FX rate of 1.10 through 2030. An appreciating USD has a positive effect on our portfolio results. Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) NA Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy process. Key input to setting the target was the Corporate Evaluation of our performance on reducing inequalities in the years 2015-2020. The evaluation was concluded in 2021. The target and strategic focus were discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during the strategy process. This included the Dutch government, being the main shareholder, and multi- stakeholder dialogues held in the course of 2021. Changes in target In 2024, the RI Label was updated in line with updated market standards (e.g. 2X and the updated MDB Common Principles) and other market developments. Two new sub- categories were added to the reducing within country inequality label to align with the new 2x standards and to account for access to food as a basic goods and services for low-income populations. Performance There was a 42 percent increase in 2024 compared to 2023, to €6.1 billion. This means that the target of €5 billion that was set for 2024 was reached. For more information on key trends and drivers, refer to the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy', 'Sector performance'. Table 10. Minimum disclosure requirements for SDG 13 Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) By 2030, we aim to have an investment portfolio of at least €10 billion in SDG 13 by financing assets that contribute to our SDG 13 objectives Scope of target SDG 13 investments in the total committed portfolio Baseline value €4.1 billion Baseline year 2021 Application period 2023 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: €5,4 million Methodologies and assumptions The target has been established following the intent to double FMO’s impact regarding SDG 13 compared to the baseline year 2021. In the absence of a single impact metric, we focused on doubling the size of the relevant portfolios. Setting the target involved a forecasting exercise of the portfolio and subsequent internal discussions. The Green Label is applied ex-ante to investments that are identified to contribute to potential positive impact on climate. Portfolio trajectories per department were forecast during the 2030 Strategy process and SDG10 targets were confirmed with investment directorates, based on past and expected performance. It should be noted that portfolio growth was forecasted using a stable EUR/USD FX rate of 1.10 through 2030. An appreciating USD has a positive effect on our portfolio results. 123 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) The Green Label methodology is based on and largely aligned with the Multilateral Development Banks (MDB) common principles on climate finance tracking. This set of principles is not intended to be scientifically evidenced per se, but evidence (such as certification of agricultural products or buildings) is required to support that these investments meet the principles and definition as set out in FMO’s Green Label methodology. Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy which has been discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting, including the Dutch government as key stakeholder and shareholder. Changes in target The Green Label methodology was updated in 2024 in line with MDB Common Principles of Climate Mitigation Finance Tracking of October 2021 and the MDB Common Principles of Climate Adaptation Finance Tracking of 2022 and external market standards. Green Label objectives have also been revised splitting the 'other footprint reduction' objective into the objectives biodiversity, water security, circular economy and pollution prevention. Performance There was a 24 percent increase in 2024 compared to 2023, to €5.9 billion. This means that the target of €5.4 billion that was set for 2024 was reached. For more information on key trends and drivers, refer to the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy', 'Sector performance'. ESG management at portfolio level FMO measures ESG gross and net risk in our portfolio to monitor our risk profile and to ensure we remain within risk appetite while measuring ESG performance. FMO has a public ESG target on the ESG performance of its high-ESG risk customers’ portfolio. The target is part of FMO’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), which specifies the appetite for accepting residual ESG risk. FMO has a cautious appetite for ESG risk in its investments. Full adherence cannot generally be expected at the start of the relationship. FMO strives for investments to be brought in line with our standards within a credible and reasonable period of time. It is understood and accepted that customers/investees have performance gaps as they need knowledge and resources to implement ESG improvements. E&S performance gaps Table 11. Minimum disclosure requirements for number of customers with E&S performance gaps in portfolio Methodology and assumptions Number of customers for which subpar performance has been identified (denoted by 'n'). E&S performance tracking is conducted for all high E&S risk customers, to determine their adherence to the IFC PS. The performance tracker considers all applicable IFC PS criteria per customer and allows these to be scored to assess the potential negative impacts and performance of the customer to mitigate these. For each high E&S risk customer, the following is determined: 1. The customers’ risk exposure to each criterion (1 – Low | 2 – Medium | 3 – High), and 2. The customers’ performance score against each PS criterion (1 – Exemplary | 2 – Good | 3 – Fair | 4 – Caution | 5 Unacceptable). The combination of these elements leads to a 7-letter scale E&S risk rating (AAA, AA, BBB, BB, CCC, CC, D) for each applicable criterion. Ratings BB/BBB/AA/AAA represent adequate customer E&S risk management per criterion, whilst CCC/CC/D are deemed to be inadequate. The lowest rating that the customer has achieved across all IFC PS criteria is used as the overall customer ESG performance rating. Performance is monitored over the lifetime of the investment. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit Number 2024 54 The following table provides an overview of the current E&S performance gaps we have identified and how we engage with these customers. It includes the number of customers for which subpar performance has been identified (denoted by 'n'). The outcomes shown below were compiled as part of FMO’s ESG performance tracking on a customer level (the methodology underlying this is outlined in 124 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"table 11). These performance gaps have been summarized by theme in the table that follows which illustrates the high priority issues that still require attention. Table 12. E&S performance gaps E&S performance gaps 2024 Description Our engagement ESRS topic Willingness and commitment (PS1) (n=7) Resistance to engage on E&S issues can stem from over- reliance on DFIs to drive ESG work streams. Commitment can waver due to financial, operational and contextual difficulties. Wavering commitment can have tangible implications on human rights and the environment, for example through delays in implementing management plans or community benefits, or in conducting specialized studies. We use contractual leverage on specific E&S items, raise issues with customers’ top management and exert influence on their boards, e.g. to push for the improvement of organizational culture. - Environmental and social governance and budget (PS1) (n=9) The customer’s leadership is not fully aware of and involved with E&S performance management, and/or has not allocated sufficient budget, resources, or time. Governance issues can result in poor protection of workers’ rights, a range of risks to communities, as well as damage to the environment. We use contractual leverage and escalate the issue to top management. We may offer capacity building and advice on integrating E&S costs into financial planning and monitor frequently. - Identification and assessment of risks and impacts (PS1) (n=8) Weak (initial and ongoing) identification and mitigation of risks. This can adversely impact human rights. We provide customers with continuous engagement with our ESG staff and capacity building. If needed, we exert formal pressure e.g. through withholding additional financing or triggering default. - Environmental and social management system (PS1) (n=13) Since the assessment and management of E&S risks and impacts is part of a larger set of processes that the customer uses to manage its projects, the customer needs to deploy an environmental and social management system (ESMS) to warehouse and utilize such processes. A weak system hampers the ability to identify issues or risks, and through that to improve E&S performance, and so can lead to adverse economic, financial, social, and environmental impacts. We support customers in the development and improvement of an ESMS. - Organizational capacity and competency (PS1) (n=10) E&S teams can be too small, change often, continue to perform poorly, or lack qualified staff. This is an issue in countries where environmental legislation is developing, and/or state human rights policy and practice are weak. We use contractual leverage, offer capacity building and look for competent staff in our network. - Stakeholder engagement, external communication, grievance mechanisms (PS1) (n=16) Trust and communication between FMO’s customer and its stakeholders are eroding or have broken down. Ineffective channels of communication play an important part here, particularly when grievances are insufficiently captured or redressed. Poor performance in this area can infringe on the freedom of opinion and expression, and even result in inhuman treatment, retaliation, and risk to lives. We intensify our customer engagement, offer to connect customers to experts, mediate or provide capacity building. S3 Affected communities Voluntary land rights transfer (PS1) (n=2) Customer needs to demonstrate that the buyer and the seller were both willing to transfer the land. Involuntary land transfer can be masked as voluntary, which can weaken community cohesion, cause tension between company and community and affect people’s livelihoods. We engage with our customers to help them establish a land acquisition process that shows both the buyer and seller are willingly transferring the land. S3 Affected communities Working conditions and management of workers relationship (incl. third party workers) (PS2) (n=14) Project workers working in substandard conditions, unaware of their rights or without access to grievance mechanisms. This can infringe on labor rights. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. S2 Workers in the value chain Occupational health and safety (PS2) (n=10) Gaps in ensuring safe and healthy working conditions, possibly leading to serious injuries and fatalities. This could infringe upon the right to health and safety in the workplace, and the right to life. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. S2 Workers in the value chain 125 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Supply chain working conditions (PS2) (n=3) When the customer does not monitor its primary supply chain, risks or incidents affecting vulnerable groups are not adequately addressed. We require customers with supply chains susceptible to high human rights or environmental risks to conduct a supply chain risk assessment. In some cases, they also need to develop a leverage plan and/or action plan to mitigate those risks. S2 Workers in the value chain Resource efficiency and pollution prevention (PS3) (n=10) Projects reduce the availability of water in arid regions or pollution prevention measures are inefficient. This can infringe upon the right to life, the rights of the child and the right to live in a safe, clean, and healthy environment. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. - Community health, safety and security (PS4) (n=9) Potential negative impacts to local communities are poorly managed, especially when security forces are mandated to protect personnel and assets. The increasing fragility of political environments across the geographies we work in makes this a complex area. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. FMO can require a root cause analysis and corrective measures or redress. S3 Affected communities Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement (PS5) (n=9) When resettlement and livelihood restoration plans are poorly managed or insufficiently recognize vulnerable groups and/or have ineffective grievance mechanisms. This can impoverish people and infringe on their right to an adequate standard of living, notably the right to food and adequate housing. We find an expert to conduct gap analyses and implement recommendations. In the event of an early exit, FMO seeks to provide remedy to those impacted. S3 Affected communities Biodiversity and living natural resources (PS6) (n=9) Biodiversity potential negative impacts have not been modeled well enough or monitoring and mitigation are insufficient, or new findings are missed or ignored. This reduces biodiversity and access to forest products, thereby infringing on the right to food and/or an adequate standard of living. We intensify customer monitoring, engage a biodiversity expert and use our leverage to improve the situation. E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems Indigenous Peoples (PS7) (n=3) Community engagement processes do not meet FPIC requirement and/or do not allow for sufficient participation of Indigenous Peoples. In some cases, we recognize challenging operating conditions where risks to these communities are difficult to control. This may lead to the infringement of their right to food, traditions and sacred sites. FMO encourages customers to meet FPIC standards, share benefits with communities, and include indigenous groups in livelihood restoration. We may intensify monitoring of contextual risk factors. S3 Affected communities Cultural heritage (PS8) (n=3) Failure to protect cultural heritage. This can infringe on the rights of people to benefit from their and other people’s cultural heritage. We use our leverage to improve the situation, looking at past and future risks. S3 Affected communities Financial intermediaries: financial institutions and fund managers (n=22) Substandard system for identifying and managing E&S potential negative impacts of financed activities. Processes and procedures are unclear, E&S management responsibilities are insufficiently defined and/or capabilities are lacking, or inadequate E&S due diligence and monitoring is performed. This can be compounded by lack of exposure to and experience in E&S risks management by the financial sector and the lack of a level-playing field. This can lead to infringements of all types of human rights as referenced before. We provide expertise and funding for the ESMS or sit on E&S risk management committees. We negotiate improvement plans and, in some cases, initiate or contribute to sector initiatives. - ESG performance target While we monitor all negative impacts in our portfolio, FMO's ESG performance target is set annually for high-ESG risk customers contracted prior to 2024 (identified as the ‘target list’). The target list includes high E&S risk customers and customers with a corporate governance officer in the deal. We register and monitor all potential negative impacts of our high-risk customers and aim to have at least 90 percent of ESG risks in our target list managed at an adequate level by our customers. The 2024 results indicate that, on average, 94 percent of ESG risks were adequately managed. In instances where customer performance deteriorates or open action items are not implemented on time, customers receive lower ratings, which bring down the average of the entire portfolio. The target has 126 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"been met and the 2024 performance has improved from 91 percent in 2023, resulting from improved impact management by our clients, with a particular increase in performance of our FI portfolio. Table 13. Minimum disclosure requirements for ESG performance target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) At least 90 percent of the ESG risks in our target list are managed at an adequate level by our customers Scope of target High E&S-risk customers and customers with a corporate governance officer in the deal. By consolidating customers within the same corporate group or group of companies, and excluding those in B Loans* or contracted in 2024, we created a target list of 258 customers. Baseline value 90% Baseline year 2023 Application period 2024-2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: 90% Methodologies and assumptions E&S performance tracking is conducted for all high E&S risk customers, to determine their adherence to the IFC PS. The performance tracker considers all applicable IFC PS criteria per customer and allows these to be scored to assess the potential negative impacts and performance of the customer to mitigate these. For each high E&S risk customer, the following is determined: 1. The customers’ risk exposure to each criterion (1 – Low | 2 – Medium | 3 – High), and 2. The customers’ performance score against each PS criterion ((1 – Exemplary | 2 – Good | 3 – Fair | 4 – Caution | 5 Unacceptable). The combination of these elements leads to a 7-letter scale E&S risk rating (AAA, AA, BBB, BB, CCC, CC, D) for each applicable criterion. Ratings BB/BBB/AA/AAA represent adequate customer E&S risk management per criterion, whilst CCC/CC/D are deemed to be inadequate. The target is calculated as the share of adequate risks amongst all risks assessed in the target list customers (see scope for target list). Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) NA Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy which has been discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting, including the Dutch government being the key stakeholder and shareholder. Changes in target Target remains the same as in 2023 except the target list is redefined every year as described in the methodology. Performance 94% *FMO participates in 'B-loans', contractual arrangements where it has a sub-participation where another DFI/MDB manages the customer relationship. In these cases, FMO does not have a direct business relationship with the end recipient. In 2023, it was decided that, while FMO will continue to monitor B-loan performance, the results would not be included in our ESG target. Evaluate and learn FMO conducts evaluations to assess and learn from FMO’s performance against our committed (impact) objectives. At the portfolio level, we perform corporate evaluations to assess FMO's contributions to the SDGs, while for fund evaluations, we selectively choose specific investments for review. Evaluations help us to be accountable and to learn from the results that our financial and non-financial activities create in order to continuously improve. ESRS 2 Governance of sustainability matters The topic of governance is mostly covered in the sub-chapter ‘Corporate governance’ and the chapter ‘Report of the Supervisory Board’. In this section, we provide information on the governance aspects relating to sustainability-related matters. 127 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Roles and responsibilities in managing IROs FMO’s sustainability agenda is managed in an integrated way. The Supervisory Board oversees the overall strategy and performance. The Supervisory Board has three dedicated committees: The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC), the Impact Committee (IC) and the Selection, Appointment and Remuneration (SARC). The Audit and Risk Committee provides - among others - advice to the Supervisory Board on approving the Risk Appetite Framework. The Audit and Risk committee also discusses the quarterly Risk Appetite Reports on a regular basis. This report includes sections on whether climate risk and ESG risk are within appetite level. The Impact Committee prepares the decision-making and advice of the Supervisory Board on FMO’s strategic impact commitments, including policies and targets related to sustainability-related matters. Our material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities are reflected in the standing rules of the Supervisory Board Impact Committee as part of their objective of assisting the Supervisory Board in overseeing the quality and integrity of FMO’s statements regarding development Impact. The Supervisory Board Impact Committee also prepares advice to support Supervisory Board and Management Board decision-making concerning FMO's strategy in respect to sustainability-related matters, including policies and target-setting. Our Management Board is responsible for FMO’s mission, vision, strategic goals and strategy including our long-term value creation. The Management Board is also responsible for implementing the strategy and the subsequent delivery of results, as reflected in the standing rules of the Management Board. Our sustainability-related matters are closely connected to managing FMO’s development impact, which is a core Management Board responsibility. In 2022, the Management Board approved FMO’s 2030 Strategy, including its 2030 strategic targets and ambitions. FMO’s long-term strategy is translated into annual business plans, outlining the priorities as well as the annual targets for the year, which are discussed and approved by the Management Board. The Management Board also approves the overall outcome of FMO’s double materiality assessment and reporting approach. Specific investments and divestments are discussed and/or approved by the Management Board. The Management Board decides and steers on strategic ambition levels regarding sustainability, through the setting of sustainability-related targets at corporate level, approving elements of our sustainability policy universe and guiding on items with high sustainability-related risks of reputational damage. Management Board committees The Management Board has delegated some of these responsibilities to its management committees. With regards to sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities, responsibilities have been delegated to the Impact and Sustainability Committee (ISCO), the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) and the Financial Risk Committee (FRC). The ISCO supports the Management Board by driving the day-to-day impact and sustainability agenda through improved decision-making of sustainability-related matters and interpretation of external developments, with a view to implementation consequences. The Co-CIO has been appointed as the single point of accountability in the Management Board for sustainability-related matters and acts as Chair of the ISCO. In addition, the committee is composed of the following permanent members: Director Strategy, Director ESG+, Director Finance, Impact and Data, Investment Director and Director Credit and Special Operations. The ISCO endorses the results of the FMO’s double materiality assessment (DMA) from an impact materiality perspective, for the Management Board to approve. The Sustainability Policy is approved by the Management Board at least once every 3 years. The ISCO has delegated authority for its annual approval. The NFRC is appointed by the Management Board as an independent body for the purpose of monitoring, challenging, and deciding upon the execution of non-financial risk within FMO including ESG risks and will decide on the escalation of unacceptable ESG risks related to investment projects and cases with high reputational risk. The FRC deals with ESG risk at a portfolio level including for example climate risk assessments and results. The FRC also endorses the results of the DMA from a financial materiality perspective. Both the FRC and NFRC are chaired by Management Board members. Internal functions The responsibility for managing sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities lies with several internal functions within FMO. The Strategy department is tasked with managing FMO’s corporate strategy and implementation, including defining the sustainability strategy and related policies. FMO’s 128 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
"E3 Water and Marine Resources E3 Introduction FMO recognizes the critical role of water management in supporting climate and nature goals, ecosystems, and economic development. FMO invests in projects dependent on freshwater resources in the water, energy and agrifood portfolios, and impacts are expected regarding both water quality and water availability. As part of the impact management strategy, FMO has an ambition to invest in water efficient projects that align with the wider goals of environmental protection, safeguard affected communities, and ensure the sustainable use of water resources. By addressing water impacts, FMO aims to contribute to sustainable development and help mitigate the negative impacts of climate change on water resources. E3 Impacts, risks and opportunities The following table provides an overview of how each impact, risk and opportunity (IRO) relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. The impacts caused by our own operations fell below the materiality threshold. However, two negative impacts in our investment portfolio are considered to be material. It should be noted that the double materiality assessment (DMA) for E1 on Climate included a Climate Risk Assessment, through which a material financial risk related to water dependency was identified. This risk will be reported under 'E1 Climate change' as it relates to climate change effects that lead to increased water scarcity. Table 23. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Water withdrawals Actual negative impact The actual negative impacts on water quality and availability resulting from significant water usage or degradation by customers and/or projects financed by FMO. Water scarcity and degradation undermine the long-term sustainability of water resources, posing risks to ecosystems, biodiversity, and the livelihoods of communities dependent on water for agriculture and other purposes Degraded water quality and reduced availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target Water withdrawals Actual negative impact Actual impact on water withdrawals through the creation of reservoirs because of construction of hydro power dams and/or generators by our customers. Water availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target E3-1 Policies Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material water- related IROs. The Sustainability Policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts in our downstream value chain and is part of the Sustainability Policy Universe. The ESG management approach for screening and monitoring customers with regard to potential negative impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. FMO has adopted 169 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) as its operating standard. The following documents are relevant for water: a. IFC PS3, 4 and 6 provide specific guidance on water related topics, as they respectively cover Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, Community Health, Safety, and Security, and Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. b. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. FMO’s policies that address water-related impacts are aimed at reducing the material negative impacts downstream in FMO’s value chain. FMO aims to support customers to improve their sustainable use of natural resources, such as water, and to prevent degradation of ecosystems. FMO assesses its direct and indirect potential and existing investments over time according to ESG criteria such as the presence and quality of the E&S management system, availability, quantity and quality of resources such as water for local communities and related impacts on resource efficiency including the consumption and use of water. The scope of this assessment applies to the financed activities and their primary suppliers, though FMO may look beyond the direct financed activities when salient risks are expected in the value chain. Potable water availability or sanitary wastewater collection, treatment, or discharge are also considered, whereby opportunities are explored to improve these aspects, especially where these can be provided at marginal cost to the project. When projects are a potentially significant consumer of water, in addition to applying the resource efficiency requirements of the IFC PS3, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g., use of additional water conservation measures, the use of alternative water supplies, water consumption offsets, evaluation of alternative project locations) that avoid or reduce water usage so that the project’s water consumption does not have significant negative impacts. FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for improving efficiency in its consumption of water, integrating the principles of cleaner production into product design and production processes with the objective of conserving water. Policies related to water management pertain to an organization's own operations. Since FMO's own operations were not identified as material in the DMA, this type of water management policies is not relevant for FMO. Since the water-related impacts that were identified to be material for FMO are not related to our own operations, there are no policies required to address water stress near one of FMO’s operating sites. E3-2 Key actions As part of the normal due diligence process, we identify performance gaps against our standards, and we agree with our customers on improvements that are required in relation to negative impacts on water and marine resources (e.g. impact of hazardous materials on ecosystem services, degradation of natural resources, water usage etc.). These improvements are translated into an action plan (ESAP) which is incorporated into the contract. The ESAP also stipulates timelines for the customers to close the actions (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'). Compliance with the ESAP and closing of actions is monitored as part of the customer credit review process which takes place annually. Where incidents take place, a corrective action plan may be required to mitigate and possibly remediate the impact; this can be agreed with the customer. E3-3 Targets FMO has not adopted targets related to water resources. However, FMO’s 90 percent ESG performance target includes but is not limited to water impact from related investments (incl. IFC PS3, 4 and 6). Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. 170 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E4 Introduction FMO recognizes the value of ecosystems that form the natural capital for the world economy. Their degradation poses a direct risk for FMO’s customers and the societies in which they operate. When we talk about biodiversity, we look at it from a broader perspective, taking into consideration nature and natural capital. While biodiversity and nature are not always explicitly singled out as specific objectives in the way FMO manages on sustainability-related matters (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO Management'). FMO’s impact management procedures are aligned with environmental conservation, sustainable use of natural resources, and protection of ecosystems. Furthermore, they promote consideration of how investments affect biodiversity and the pursuit of investments that support nature-based solutions and conservation goals. FMO aims to achieve positive impacts through biodiversity finance that are focused on for instance nature-based solutions and forestry- and regenerative agriculture investments. As per the 2030 Strategy, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity. Together with our partners, FMO committed to engage on climate adaptation and resilience, and biodiversity, by creating coalitions with key nature conservancy organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, promoting community and stakeholder engagement. E4 Impacts, risks and opportunities Table 24 below gives an overview of how each material IRO relates to policies, actions, and targets, which will be covered in the sections of this statement. Table 24. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential negative impact Impact on biodiversity from AFW investments as a result of land-use changes (e.g. deforestation, conversion of natural landscapes), insufficient consideration of the habitat function of agricultural lands through the introduction of monocrops or the use of non-native species agricultural production or poor water management, can contribute to habitat degradation. Land-use change Medium term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in hydro power plants by impacting marine/freshwater species migration paths and changing of natural hydrological cycles. Negative impacts from investments in hydro power plants Short term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target 171 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"related risks, and to better understand our dependencies and impacts on nature. We expect to continue developing our methodology and improving our ways of assessing dependencies and risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Our Climate Risk Report (see 'E1 - Impact, Risk and opportunity management') formed part of the input for the material risks and opportunities determined in our DMA. Our climate risk assessment explicitly covers physical and transition risks related to climate change, which also indirectly impacts nature, biodiversity and ecosystems. Within the climate risk assessment, the relevant risks for biodiversity and ecosystems are sometimes direct and sometimes indirect (as climate change can affect ecosystems and biodiversity). These risks have been covered as material under 'E1 Climate Change' and we did not find any additional material nature-related risks during our DMA. The outcome of our DMA concluded that biodiversity-related outside-in financial risks are currently not material to FMO. However, as our methodology to assess our dependency on nature continues to develop, we may identify material biodiversity-related risks in the future. Exploring biodiversity-related opportunities has been embedded into our 2030 Strategy, in which we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity as part of our SDG 13 ambition through the growth of our Green Label investments portfolios. As our methodology for assessing dependency on nature is still under development and was not considered during the DMA, we have not yet taken systemic risks into consideration. We did not consult with potentially affected communities specifically for the purposes of the DMA. As discussed in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management', we apply the relevant IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) in our investment process and due diligence, which may require consultation of potentially affected communities (depending on the investment) in order to avoid causing negative impacts on communities. Our approach towards affected communities is described further in our ESRS statement 'S3 Affected communities'. As the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems is not material to FMO’s own operations, the potential impacts on ecosystem services of relevance to affected communities in FMO’s own operations are not applicable. FMO does not have sites of its own that can create material impacts on biodiversity. Some of our investments can take place in physical locations that may be in or near biodiversity sensitive areas. We manage potential negative impacts in our investment process with the implementation of IFC PS6 (Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources). We assess on an individual project level whether it is necessary to implement climate mitigation measures. Our relevant process is described further in the section 'E4-2 Policies'. E4-1 Transition plan We identified material potential positive and negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in our downstream value chain. Additionally, we are developing our methodology on how to assess our dependencies on nature, and we are in the process of identifying potential risks from ecosystem degradation, regulatory and market shifts, climate change and biodiversity loss. Lastly, we have identified biodiversity-related opportunities as part of our 2030 Strategy, where we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity towards our SDG 13 ambition and Green Label growth target. As discussed in the previous section of this statement and in section 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', no material biodiversity and ecosystems-related risks were identified during the DMA. Therefore, our conclusion from our DMA is that FMO is resilient in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems. The DMA covered FMO’s upstream and downstream value chain, and FMO’s own operations. The time horizons used for the DMA were in line with the time horizons mentioned in ESRS 1. Furthermore, no specific stakeholder engagement was performed for the purposes of the DMA on the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems. 173 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As mentioned before, during the reporting period we were developing our methodology to assess FMO’s risks and dependencies related to nature. This methodology covers our entire portfolio (downstream value chain). This work is still in its early stages, and we expect that as we continue to develop our methodology further in the coming years, our understanding of FMO’s resilience in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems will also evolve. Lastly, during the reporting period, we developed our ‘Biodiversity roadmap’ to outline how we plan to address impacts, risks and opportunities in biodiversity, and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance in line with our 2030 Strategy (see 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'). E4-2 Policies Our material potential impacts related to the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems are mainly addressed by one policy: the Sustainability Policy and the relevant supporting documents, which together form the FMO Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU). Our 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan describe FMO’s commitment to increase investments in biodiversity. Below is a description of the relevant documents within the SPU: Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material biodiversity-related IROs. A complete description of the Sustainability Policy is described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social (E&S) impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. This emphasizes mandatory consultation with the local population affected by the project and specific plans available to compensate for any negative effects. Exclusion list: FMO’s exclusion list requires that an investment may not result in the ‘significant conversion or degradation of critical habitats’. Primary forests or forests of a high conservation value are classified as critical habitats. ESG management. The general criteria for screening and monitoring customers with regard to negative/adverse impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The following standards are relevant for biodiversity: i. IFC PS1: Assessment and management of environmental and social risks and impacts in relation to communities as well as disadvantaged and vulnerable groups ii. IFC PS6: Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural resources iii. IFC PS3 and 4 address the impacts of customer activities on ecosystem services and areas of importance to biodiversity that affect local communities Green Label Guidelines: the Green Label Guidelines provide the methodology and criteria for how to identify investments that are ex ante expected to have the positive impact we aim to create through our portfolio, including when it comes to preserving and growing natural capital and promoting biodiversity. FMO’s material biodiversity-related IROs are provided in the overview Table at the start of this chapter. These cover the relevant biodiversity drivers mentioned in the application requirements for ESRS E4 (with the exception of pollution which was not identified as a material topic for FMO) and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities. In practice, our ESG management process involves identifying, managing and monitoring potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. Ecosystem services are the benefits that people, including businesses, derive from ecosystems. FMO requires customers to identify and avoid negative impacts on biodiversity or ecosystems. Specifically, this requires customers to identify potential negative impacts (IFC PS1 and IFC PS6) such as habitat loss, degradation and fragmentation, possibility of invasive alien species introduction, overexploitation of a habitat and pollution (IFC PS3) that arise as a result of their activities. Where these potential negative impacts cannot be avoided, mitigation strategies and measures (e.g., avoiding impacts through exclusion of land areas within a site for conservation, introducing biological corridors, habitat restoration during or after operations etc.) are to be developed by our customers to minimize the negative impacts (IFC PS6). 174 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Additionally, customers engaged in primary production of living natural resources, such as forestry and agriculture, are required to manage these resources sustainably using industry-specific good management practices (IFC PS6) and this is to be demonstrated by independent verification or certification. Furthermore, in cases where customers are purchasing primary production (such as food and fiber commodities) from areas with a known potential negative impact of significant conversion of natural and/or critical habitats, FMO requires that these customers implement systems and verification practices to identify where the supply originates, the type of habitat of the area, review supply chains and limit procurement from suppliers where these impacts are identified (IFC PS6 and IFC PS1). Moreover, customer activities can negatively impact local communities in the following ways: 1. A customer’s operations may directly negatively impact priority ecosystem services that can result in adverse health and safety impacts on local communities (IFC PS4). For example, customer activities in the agricultural sector can result in the loss of natural buffer areas such as wetlands and mangroves which mitigate the effects of natural hazards such as landslides and flooding, thus resulting in increased vulnerability and community safety-related risks and impacts. Some of these impacts can be exacerbated by climate change (IFC PS4). 2. Customer operations can also negatively impact local communities whose livelihoods are dependent on biodiversity in these areas or ecosystem services (IFC PS1). These negative impacts should be identified and avoided. If deemed unavoidable, then customers are required to implement appropriate mitigative measures (IFC PS4) in consultation with affected local communities (IFC PS1). The process used by FMO to identify and manage IROs to local communities is described in S3. Throughout the investment process and as part of our due diligence, we assess our customers’ performance against the above standards. The outcome of the assessment is an integral part of the financial proposals that inform our investment decisions. Where negative impacts or gaps in the management of such negative impacts are identified, FMO agrees with the customer on measures and actions to be taken by the customer to close these performance gaps. These actions are formalized in an Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) which is included in the financing contract with the customer. By collaborating with our customers, we aim to address these gaps in order to effectively manage associated (material) negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. In this manner, FMO sees an opportunity to transform the agriculture sector in our markets through the use of sustainable, resource-efficient and resilient practices and business models throughout agricultural supply chains. We assess our investments for negative impacts and dependencies on nature (as described above) and use this analysis to identify investment opportunities. For example, some investments leave natural forests intact or preserve certain ecosystems while still profitably harvesting products. This is how we turn identified dependencies and negative impacts into opportunities for investment. In addition, the biodiversity-related parts of our Sustainability Policy and associated documents are linked to several other third party standards and initiatives: Our biodiversity commitments are linked to SDG 13 on climate action, as we actively participate in biodiversity efforts by forming partnerships with key conservation organizations, enhancing understanding of landscape approaches, and encouraging community and stakeholder involvement. Additionally, the European Regulation on Deforestation-Free Products (EUDR) came into force in 2023. This regulation requires companies to prove their products are deforestation-free from 30 December 2025. Although it will not affect FMO directly, it will become relevant as it poses a transition risk for many of our agrifood partners. It is applicable downstream, to customers in our portfolio (especially the Agribusiness, Food and Water portfolio). More information on how we consider acting upon this is included section 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'. The target of investing €10 billion in SDG 13-related investments by 2030 contributes to the positive impact of FMO and the opportunity for FMO to restore and regenerate ecosystems and create and develop new markets with a biodiversity positive impact. The biodiversity-related eligibility criteria for an investment to receive the Green Label are as follows: 175 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"A financed activity is either contributing to conserving/increasing biodiversity or the core business/ aim of the project is to conserve or increase biodiversity. The transition to, or maintenance of, silvo-pastoral systems, if no conversion of natural land is involved. Since we did not identify any material biodiversity-or ecosystem-related IROs for FMO’s own operations, we have not adopted any biodiversity and ecosystem protection policies covering FMO’s operational sites. Since FMO’s potential negative impacts through unsustainable land use change or agricultural practices were found to be material, our approach to managing these impacts is described above. The potential positive impact of investing in projects that promote sustainable land use through ecosystem restoration and regeneration is also described above. Sustainable oceans and sea are not material for FMO and therefore no related policies exist. Two policy aspects are relevant to how we address deforestation at FMO. First, FMO uses an exclusion list when evaluating potential investments. Part of this exclusion list is the fact that an investment may not significantly contribute to the conversion or degradation of a critical habitat, like primary or high conservation-value forests. Secondly, the IFC PS6 addresses deforestation by emphasizing the need to protect and conserve biodiversity, maintain ecosystem services, and manage living natural resources sustainably IFC PS6 requires customers to take proactive steps to address deforestation and its impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity. E4-3 Key actions We have formulated actions from the reporting period at the operational level, which mainly address the material IROs, and at the strategic level. Additionally, we present the main future planned actions. The scope for these actions concerns our downstream investment portfolio. Operational actions in 2024 1. Increase the Green-labelled share of our portfolio. Investments are assessed based on potential impact and include increasing biodiversity positive-related investments in line with the relevant biodiversity criteria in our Green Label. Our investment teams seek opportunities in biodiversity finance on an ongoing basis. Our Sustainable Finance Advisory team provides investment teams with ongoing support on such transactions. Investment teams receive regular training on the label and opportunities in these focus areas. 2. Keep using and improving the IFC PS6 standard application including training and ESAPs at customer level to manage potential negative impact. Strategic actions in 2024 1. We developed a Biodiversity roadmap that describes how we plan to manage biodiversity impacts, risks and opportunities and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance by 2030. 2. We started developing our methodology to assess our dependency on nature, as part of our climate risk assessment project that is covered in 'E1 Climate change'. 3. We organized a training on managing negative impacts of biodiversity, in line with IFC PS6 to allow staff to upgrade their existing knowledge on the IFC PS6 content or process. Future planned actions 1. Green Label update planned for 2025. 2. KPI development to monitor strategic impact ambitions. We started the development of two KPIs to monitor strategic impact ambitions in 2024, covering both biodiversity opportunities and potential negative impacts; these are expected to be in place earliest in 2026. 3. Continue developing a pipeline for biodiversity financing in line with our strategic commitments. 176 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Table 25. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems Scope of actions The actions apply to FMO's value chain, with a focus on the downstream value chain. Time horizon · Operational/BAU actions are implemented within the reporting period. · Strategic actions are implemented in the period 2024-2026. · Future actions are all planned within the timeframe of the 2030 strategy. Actions taken to provide for and cooperate in or support the provision of remedy (if applicable) N/A Progress of actions As this is the first year we report within the structure of the ESRS, we do not report progress on actions from prior periods. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. Operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) (if required) No significant operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) related to implementing actions. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. In 'ESRS 2 - Governance of sustainability matters' we provide information on the teams and departments that are involved with the management of material IROs, which relate to the implementation of the operational actions described above. No actions described require significant OpEx or CapEx. In principle, we do not use biodiversity offsets in our action plans. However, on an individual investment level, FMO’s Biodiversity Mitigation hierarchy is based on IFC PS6 and denotes offsetting as a last resort for residual impact after following the implementation of prevention/avoidance, minimization, and restoration measures. Biodiversity offsets adhere to the ’like-for-like or 'better' principle and are designed and implemented to achieve measurable conservation outcomes that can reasonably be expected to result in no net loss of biodiversity and net gain in critical habitats. Additionally, on an individual project level, we identify any needs for offsets and apply specific relevant key performance indicators on a case-by-case basis. The same applies to financing effects and types, areas and quality criteria applied to the offsets. These will therefore not be described in more detail here as they are not part of our action plans. IFC PS6 Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources forms a key element of FMO’s ESG performance assessment of direct high-risk customers. When significant impacts on biodiversity are identified, our projects must develop and implement a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP), which explicitly describe the project’s mitigation strategy and how local and indigenous knowledge and nature-based solutions are incorporated into conservation strategies and actions. FMO ensures its projects consult protected area managers, affected communities, indigenous peoples and other stakeholders. Affected communities should participate in this identification process in accordance with the stakeholder engagement process as defined in IFC PS1. This process involves Indigenous Peoples’ representative bodies and organizations as well as members of the affected communities of indigenous peoples and provide sufficient time for indigenous peoples’ decision-making processes. Our stakeholder engagement process involves disclosure and dissemination of information, consultation and participation, grievance mechanism, and ongoing reporting to affected communities. Where projects are likely to generate adverse E&S impacts to affected communities, FMO will implement a Stakeholder Engagement Plan tailored to their characteristics and interests. Following IFC PS6, FMO makes every reasonable effort to verify that during this process, community representatives represent the views of affected communities and that they can be relied upon to faithfully communicate the results of consultations to their constituents. E4-4 Targets We currently have no specific biodiversity targets to manage the material IROs, and for the time being, we do not intend to set any specific targets. This topic is continuously evolving, which makes it currently challenging to predict progress and set reliable targets. 177 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"We do, however, have two portfolio targets (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management') that have a connection to our biodiversity portfolio: We register and monitor the different types of ESG risks of our high-risk customers and aim to have at least 90 percent of the ESG risks managed at an adequate level by the customers in our target list. This includes biodiversity-related risks through IFC PS6. We aim to grow our SDG 13-related investment portfolio to €10 billion by 2030, which includes but is not limited to biodiversity-related investments. E4-5 Metrics On an annual basis, FMO tracks entity specific metrics related to Biodiversity. These metrics enable us to monitor our objective regarding positive impact, as well as to identify, manage and monitor potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems through our impact management process. We assess the potential positive biodiversity impacts of investments ex-ante. This assessment is done through our Green Label, which we assign to investments that are expected to benefit biodiversity. The Green Label includes but is not limited to Biodiversity. FMO tracks the performance of high-risk customers against the requirements of the IFC PS’s in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. The methodology used to determine this metric and any identified performance gaps for the year as well as the Green Label have been outlined in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. 178 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
RISK MANAGEMENT 03
"This chapter provides an overview of FMO's risk governance and risk management approach. The sections describe the risk domains relevant to FMO and developments throughout 2024. Together with the quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures - available on FMO's website - it constitutes FMO's Pillar 3 disclosure. Risk governance FMO defines risk as the effect of uncertainty on objectives. FMO has a comprehensive framework in place to manage and control risk, reflecting its banking license, State Support Agreement and a mandate that involves doing business in increased risk countries. The risk management framework helps us realize our ambitions and safeguard our viability. Risk management practices are integrated across the organization, from day-to-day activities to strategic planning, to ensure both compliance with relevant regulations and adherence to the risk appetite. A sound risk management framework is in place to preserve FMO's integrity, which is essential for fulfilling its mission and upholding its good reputation. The Management Board defines and promotes the desired corporate culture and high ethical and professional standards. Employees are encouraged to take the right risks in an informed manner, with integrity and careful consideration of the interests of all stakeholders. The risk management framework is based on the 'three lines model', where the first line (Investment department and supporting functions) is challenged and advised by the second line (Risk department, Compliance department and Credit department), and the third line (Internal Audit) that performs independent assessments of the functioning of the first and second line. The organizational structure is shown below. The Management Board has established risk committees to assist it in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities regarding the risk appetite of FMO, the risk management framework and the governance structure that supports it. The risk committees and their responsibilities are described below: The Financial Risk Committee (FRC). The FRC is appointed by the Management Board for the purpose of monitoring, challenging and deciding upon the execution of financial risk management within FMO. The Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC). The NFRC is appointed by the Management Board for the purpose of monitoring, challenging and deciding upon the execution of non-financial risk and strategic risk management within FMO. Both the FRC and NFRC are chaired by the Chief Risk Officer (or Director Risk in her absence). Several sub-committees report into the FRC and NFRC, such as the Investment Committee, the Integrity and RISK MANAGEMENT 63 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Issue Management Committee, the Corporate Information Security Office and the Regulatory Monitoring Group. These sub-committees are chaired by directors. Risk appetite and taxonomy The risk taxonomy defines the main risk types and risk subtypes FMO is exposed to in the pursuit of its objectives. This common set of risk categories, types and subtypes facilitates the structuring of other elements of the risk management framework, such as the risk appetite and risk policies. The risk appetite defines appetite bandwidths alert and tolerance levels for main risk types and subtypes. The Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) is reviewed by the Management Board and approved by the Supervisory Board on an annual basis. If necessary, it can be revised during the year in the event of material developments or a change in the strategic goals. The risk appetite, governance and monitoring metrics for each risk domain are described in more detail in the sections below. Pillar 3 disclosure FMO publishes the required Pillar 3 disclosures on an annual basis alongside the publication of the annual report. These documents fulfil the Pillar 3 disclosure requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) and Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR). The objective of FMO’s disclosure policies is to ensure maximum transparency in a practical manner. The consolidation scope for prudential reporting is equal to the accounting scope for FMO. FMO was granted the solo waiver for prudential reporting based on Article 7 and therefore only reports figures related to CRR/CRD on a consolidated basis. Climate-related and environmental financial related risk Climate-related and environmental financial risk is not a separate risk type but an external causal factor of FMO’s existing risk types. FMO defines climate-related and environmental financial risk as the risk of any negative financial impact on FMO stemming from the current or prospective impact of climate- related and environmental factors on FMO directly (e.g. on FMO’s own operations and policies regarding its aggregate investment portfolio) or indirectly, (e.g. through FMO’s customers and invested assets). In 2021, FMO began a project to embed climate-related and environmental risks within the organization, based on the European Central Bank (ECB) Guide on Climate-Related and Environmental (C&E) Risks. Throughout 2024, FMO has reported quarterly portfolio scans to its Financial Risk Committee. The portfolio scan is an aggregated overview of climate-related risks in FMO’s investment portfolio (i.e. all loans and private equity exposures), and provides an initial assessment of climate- 64 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
"E3 Water and Marine Resources E3 Introduction FMO recognizes the critical role of water management in supporting climate and nature goals, ecosystems, and economic development. FMO invests in projects dependent on freshwater resources in the water, energy and agrifood portfolios, and impacts are expected regarding both water quality and water availability. As part of the impact management strategy, FMO has an ambition to invest in water efficient projects that align with the wider goals of environmental protection, safeguard affected communities, and ensure the sustainable use of water resources. By addressing water impacts, FMO aims to contribute to sustainable development and help mitigate the negative impacts of climate change on water resources. E3 Impacts, risks and opportunities The following table provides an overview of how each impact, risk and opportunity (IRO) relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. The impacts caused by our own operations fell below the materiality threshold. However, two negative impacts in our investment portfolio are considered to be material. It should be noted that the double materiality assessment (DMA) for E1 on Climate included a Climate Risk Assessment, through which a material financial risk related to water dependency was identified. This risk will be reported under 'E1 Climate change' as it relates to climate change effects that lead to increased water scarcity. Table 23. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Water withdrawals Actual negative impact The actual negative impacts on water quality and availability resulting from significant water usage or degradation by customers and/or projects financed by FMO. Water scarcity and degradation undermine the long-term sustainability of water resources, posing risks to ecosystems, biodiversity, and the livelihoods of communities dependent on water for agriculture and other purposes Degraded water quality and reduced availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target Water withdrawals Actual negative impact Actual impact on water withdrawals through the creation of reservoirs because of construction of hydro power dams and/or generators by our customers. Water availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target E3-1 Policies Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material water- related IROs. The Sustainability Policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts in our downstream value chain and is part of the Sustainability Policy Universe. The ESG management approach for screening and monitoring customers with regard to potential negative impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. FMO has adopted 169 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) as its operating standard. The following documents are relevant for water: a. IFC PS3, 4 and 6 provide specific guidance on water related topics, as they respectively cover Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, Community Health, Safety, and Security, and Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. b. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. FMO’s policies that address water-related impacts are aimed at reducing the material negative impacts downstream in FMO’s value chain. FMO aims to support customers to improve their sustainable use of natural resources, such as water, and to prevent degradation of ecosystems. FMO assesses its direct and indirect potential and existing investments over time according to ESG criteria such as the presence and quality of the E&S management system, availability, quantity and quality of resources such as water for local communities and related impacts on resource efficiency including the consumption and use of water. The scope of this assessment applies to the financed activities and their primary suppliers, though FMO may look beyond the direct financed activities when salient risks are expected in the value chain. Potable water availability or sanitary wastewater collection, treatment, or discharge are also considered, whereby opportunities are explored to improve these aspects, especially where these can be provided at marginal cost to the project. When projects are a potentially significant consumer of water, in addition to applying the resource efficiency requirements of the IFC PS3, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g., use of additional water conservation measures, the use of alternative water supplies, water consumption offsets, evaluation of alternative project locations) that avoid or reduce water usage so that the project’s water consumption does not have significant negative impacts. FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for improving efficiency in its consumption of water, integrating the principles of cleaner production into product design and production processes with the objective of conserving water. Policies related to water management pertain to an organization's own operations. Since FMO's own operations were not identified as material in the DMA, this type of water management policies is not relevant for FMO. Since the water-related impacts that were identified to be material for FMO are not related to our own operations, there are no policies required to address water stress near one of FMO’s operating sites. E3-2 Key actions As part of the normal due diligence process, we identify performance gaps against our standards, and we agree with our customers on improvements that are required in relation to negative impacts on water and marine resources (e.g. impact of hazardous materials on ecosystem services, degradation of natural resources, water usage etc.). These improvements are translated into an action plan (ESAP) which is incorporated into the contract. The ESAP also stipulates timelines for the customers to close the actions (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'). Compliance with the ESAP and closing of actions is monitored as part of the customer credit review process which takes place annually. Where incidents take place, a corrective action plan may be required to mitigate and possibly remediate the impact; this can be agreed with the customer. E3-3 Targets FMO has not adopted targets related to water resources. However, FMO’s 90 percent ESG performance target includes but is not limited to water impact from related investments (incl. IFC PS3, 4 and 6). Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. 170 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E4 Introduction FMO recognizes the value of ecosystems that form the natural capital for the world economy. Their degradation poses a direct risk for FMO’s customers and the societies in which they operate. When we talk about biodiversity, we look at it from a broader perspective, taking into consideration nature and natural capital. While biodiversity and nature are not always explicitly singled out as specific objectives in the way FMO manages on sustainability-related matters (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO Management'). FMO’s impact management procedures are aligned with environmental conservation, sustainable use of natural resources, and protection of ecosystems. Furthermore, they promote consideration of how investments affect biodiversity and the pursuit of investments that support nature-based solutions and conservation goals. FMO aims to achieve positive impacts through biodiversity finance that are focused on for instance nature-based solutions and forestry- and regenerative agriculture investments. As per the 2030 Strategy, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity. Together with our partners, FMO committed to engage on climate adaptation and resilience, and biodiversity, by creating coalitions with key nature conservancy organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, promoting community and stakeholder engagement. E4 Impacts, risks and opportunities Table 24 below gives an overview of how each material IRO relates to policies, actions, and targets, which will be covered in the sections of this statement. Table 24. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential negative impact Impact on biodiversity from AFW investments as a result of land-use changes (e.g. deforestation, conversion of natural landscapes), insufficient consideration of the habitat function of agricultural lands through the introduction of monocrops or the use of non-native species agricultural production or poor water management, can contribute to habitat degradation. Land-use change Medium term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in hydro power plants by impacting marine/freshwater species migration paths and changing of natural hydrological cycles. Negative impacts from investments in hydro power plants Short term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target 171 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in large-scale wind turbines can affect bird and other animal migration paths, and can lead to the loss and fragmentation of wildlife habitat. Negative impacts of investments in large-scale wind turbines Medium term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in large-scale solar panels that can lead to the loss and fragmentation of wildlife habitat. Negative impacts of investments in large-scale solar panels Medium term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential positive impact Impact on biodiversity and other ecosystems through the financing of AFW investments and projects that are specifically aimed at ecosystem restoration and regeneration. Finance projects that restore and regenerate ecosystems Long term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy Increase volume of investments related to biodiversity. SDG 13 target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Opportunity The opportunity for FMO to identify, create and develop new markets with a biodiversity positive impact (e.g. forestry projects, regenerative agriculture) into bankable projects, to deploy and attract public or private funds and generate return on investment at scale. Opportunity to develop new biodiversity positive markets Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy Increase volume of investments related to biodiversity. No specific target We identified biodiversity and ecosystems to be a material topic because of our potential and actual positive and negative impacts from our investments in the agrifood, water, and energy sectors (downstream value chain), and because of the developments in biodiversity-positive financing markets that can create material opportunities for FMO. However, currently we do not consider biodiversity a material topic from the financial risk perspective. For more details, please refer to our double materiality assessment process (DMA) as described in 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment'. As part of our assessment on the materiality of the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems in our own operations and downstream value chain we conducted desk research into the agrifood, water and energy sectors looking into international sector standards, peers, trends, and media coverage. Additionally, we considered FMO’s 2030 Strategy and current ways of working (such as our ESG management process, climate risk assessment, Green Label assessments, and forestry strategy). As such, we took into consideration impact drivers such as climate change, land-use change, the impact on marine and freshwater-use, direct exploitation and invasive alien species and pollution, as well as impacts on the state of species, impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems and impacts and dependencies on ecosystem services. While our DMA was being conducted, we were also in the process of creating a methodology to assess our dependency on nature. As this methodology was still in early stages of development during the reporting period, we did not take it into consideration during our DMA. For the methodology to assess dependencies on nature we are applying the ENCORE (Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure) materiality ratings to help evaluate our exposure to nature- 172 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"related risks, and to better understand our dependencies and impacts on nature. We expect to continue developing our methodology and improving our ways of assessing dependencies and risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Our Climate Risk Report (see 'E1 - Impact, Risk and opportunity management') formed part of the input for the material risks and opportunities determined in our DMA. Our climate risk assessment explicitly covers physical and transition risks related to climate change, which also indirectly impacts nature, biodiversity and ecosystems. Within the climate risk assessment, the relevant risks for biodiversity and ecosystems are sometimes direct and sometimes indirect (as climate change can affect ecosystems and biodiversity). These risks have been covered as material under 'E1 Climate Change' and we did not find any additional material nature-related risks during our DMA. The outcome of our DMA concluded that biodiversity-related outside-in financial risks are currently not material to FMO. However, as our methodology to assess our dependency on nature continues to develop, we may identify material biodiversity-related risks in the future. Exploring biodiversity-related opportunities has been embedded into our 2030 Strategy, in which we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity as part of our SDG 13 ambition through the growth of our Green Label investments portfolios. As our methodology for assessing dependency on nature is still under development and was not considered during the DMA, we have not yet taken systemic risks into consideration. We did not consult with potentially affected communities specifically for the purposes of the DMA. As discussed in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management', we apply the relevant IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) in our investment process and due diligence, which may require consultation of potentially affected communities (depending on the investment) in order to avoid causing negative impacts on communities. Our approach towards affected communities is described further in our ESRS statement 'S3 Affected communities'. As the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems is not material to FMO’s own operations, the potential impacts on ecosystem services of relevance to affected communities in FMO’s own operations are not applicable. FMO does not have sites of its own that can create material impacts on biodiversity. Some of our investments can take place in physical locations that may be in or near biodiversity sensitive areas. We manage potential negative impacts in our investment process with the implementation of IFC PS6 (Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources). We assess on an individual project level whether it is necessary to implement climate mitigation measures. Our relevant process is described further in the section 'E4-2 Policies'. E4-1 Transition plan We identified material potential positive and negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in our downstream value chain. Additionally, we are developing our methodology on how to assess our dependencies on nature, and we are in the process of identifying potential risks from ecosystem degradation, regulatory and market shifts, climate change and biodiversity loss. Lastly, we have identified biodiversity-related opportunities as part of our 2030 Strategy, where we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity towards our SDG 13 ambition and Green Label growth target. As discussed in the previous section of this statement and in section 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', no material biodiversity and ecosystems-related risks were identified during the DMA. Therefore, our conclusion from our DMA is that FMO is resilient in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems. The DMA covered FMO’s upstream and downstream value chain, and FMO’s own operations. The time horizons used for the DMA were in line with the time horizons mentioned in ESRS 1. Furthermore, no specific stakeholder engagement was performed for the purposes of the DMA on the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems. 173 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As mentioned before, during the reporting period we were developing our methodology to assess FMO’s risks and dependencies related to nature. This methodology covers our entire portfolio (downstream value chain). This work is still in its early stages, and we expect that as we continue to develop our methodology further in the coming years, our understanding of FMO’s resilience in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems will also evolve. Lastly, during the reporting period, we developed our ‘Biodiversity roadmap’ to outline how we plan to address impacts, risks and opportunities in biodiversity, and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance in line with our 2030 Strategy (see 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'). E4-2 Policies Our material potential impacts related to the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems are mainly addressed by one policy: the Sustainability Policy and the relevant supporting documents, which together form the FMO Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU). Our 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan describe FMO’s commitment to increase investments in biodiversity. Below is a description of the relevant documents within the SPU: Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material biodiversity-related IROs. A complete description of the Sustainability Policy is described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social (E&S) impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. This emphasizes mandatory consultation with the local population affected by the project and specific plans available to compensate for any negative effects. Exclusion list: FMO’s exclusion list requires that an investment may not result in the ‘significant conversion or degradation of critical habitats’. Primary forests or forests of a high conservation value are classified as critical habitats. ESG management. The general criteria for screening and monitoring customers with regard to negative/adverse impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The following standards are relevant for biodiversity: i. IFC PS1: Assessment and management of environmental and social risks and impacts in relation to communities as well as disadvantaged and vulnerable groups ii. IFC PS6: Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural resources iii. IFC PS3 and 4 address the impacts of customer activities on ecosystem services and areas of importance to biodiversity that affect local communities Green Label Guidelines: the Green Label Guidelines provide the methodology and criteria for how to identify investments that are ex ante expected to have the positive impact we aim to create through our portfolio, including when it comes to preserving and growing natural capital and promoting biodiversity. FMO’s material biodiversity-related IROs are provided in the overview Table at the start of this chapter. These cover the relevant biodiversity drivers mentioned in the application requirements for ESRS E4 (with the exception of pollution which was not identified as a material topic for FMO) and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities. In practice, our ESG management process involves identifying, managing and monitoring potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. Ecosystem services are the benefits that people, including businesses, derive from ecosystems. FMO requires customers to identify and avoid negative impacts on biodiversity or ecosystems. Specifically, this requires customers to identify potential negative impacts (IFC PS1 and IFC PS6) such as habitat loss, degradation and fragmentation, possibility of invasive alien species introduction, overexploitation of a habitat and pollution (IFC PS3) that arise as a result of their activities. Where these potential negative impacts cannot be avoided, mitigation strategies and measures (e.g., avoiding impacts through exclusion of land areas within a site for conservation, introducing biological corridors, habitat restoration during or after operations etc.) are to be developed by our customers to minimize the negative impacts (IFC PS6). 174 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Additionally, customers engaged in primary production of living natural resources, such as forestry and agriculture, are required to manage these resources sustainably using industry-specific good management practices (IFC PS6) and this is to be demonstrated by independent verification or certification. Furthermore, in cases where customers are purchasing primary production (such as food and fiber commodities) from areas with a known potential negative impact of significant conversion of natural and/or critical habitats, FMO requires that these customers implement systems and verification practices to identify where the supply originates, the type of habitat of the area, review supply chains and limit procurement from suppliers where these impacts are identified (IFC PS6 and IFC PS1). Moreover, customer activities can negatively impact local communities in the following ways: 1. A customer’s operations may directly negatively impact priority ecosystem services that can result in adverse health and safety impacts on local communities (IFC PS4). For example, customer activities in the agricultural sector can result in the loss of natural buffer areas such as wetlands and mangroves which mitigate the effects of natural hazards such as landslides and flooding, thus resulting in increased vulnerability and community safety-related risks and impacts. Some of these impacts can be exacerbated by climate change (IFC PS4). 2. Customer operations can also negatively impact local communities whose livelihoods are dependent on biodiversity in these areas or ecosystem services (IFC PS1). These negative impacts should be identified and avoided. If deemed unavoidable, then customers are required to implement appropriate mitigative measures (IFC PS4) in consultation with affected local communities (IFC PS1). The process used by FMO to identify and manage IROs to local communities is described in S3. Throughout the investment process and as part of our due diligence, we assess our customers’ performance against the above standards. The outcome of the assessment is an integral part of the financial proposals that inform our investment decisions. Where negative impacts or gaps in the management of such negative impacts are identified, FMO agrees with the customer on measures and actions to be taken by the customer to close these performance gaps. These actions are formalized in an Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) which is included in the financing contract with the customer. By collaborating with our customers, we aim to address these gaps in order to effectively manage associated (material) negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. In this manner, FMO sees an opportunity to transform the agriculture sector in our markets through the use of sustainable, resource-efficient and resilient practices and business models throughout agricultural supply chains. We assess our investments for negative impacts and dependencies on nature (as described above) and use this analysis to identify investment opportunities. For example, some investments leave natural forests intact or preserve certain ecosystems while still profitably harvesting products. This is how we turn identified dependencies and negative impacts into opportunities for investment. In addition, the biodiversity-related parts of our Sustainability Policy and associated documents are linked to several other third party standards and initiatives: Our biodiversity commitments are linked to SDG 13 on climate action, as we actively participate in biodiversity efforts by forming partnerships with key conservation organizations, enhancing understanding of landscape approaches, and encouraging community and stakeholder involvement. Additionally, the European Regulation on Deforestation-Free Products (EUDR) came into force in 2023. This regulation requires companies to prove their products are deforestation-free from 30 December 2025. Although it will not affect FMO directly, it will become relevant as it poses a transition risk for many of our agrifood partners. It is applicable downstream, to customers in our portfolio (especially the Agribusiness, Food and Water portfolio). More information on how we consider acting upon this is included section 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'. The target of investing €10 billion in SDG 13-related investments by 2030 contributes to the positive impact of FMO and the opportunity for FMO to restore and regenerate ecosystems and create and develop new markets with a biodiversity positive impact. The biodiversity-related eligibility criteria for an investment to receive the Green Label are as follows: 175 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"A financed activity is either contributing to conserving/increasing biodiversity or the core business/ aim of the project is to conserve or increase biodiversity. The transition to, or maintenance of, silvo-pastoral systems, if no conversion of natural land is involved. Since we did not identify any material biodiversity-or ecosystem-related IROs for FMO’s own operations, we have not adopted any biodiversity and ecosystem protection policies covering FMO’s operational sites. Since FMO’s potential negative impacts through unsustainable land use change or agricultural practices were found to be material, our approach to managing these impacts is described above. The potential positive impact of investing in projects that promote sustainable land use through ecosystem restoration and regeneration is also described above. Sustainable oceans and sea are not material for FMO and therefore no related policies exist. Two policy aspects are relevant to how we address deforestation at FMO. First, FMO uses an exclusion list when evaluating potential investments. Part of this exclusion list is the fact that an investment may not significantly contribute to the conversion or degradation of a critical habitat, like primary or high conservation-value forests. Secondly, the IFC PS6 addresses deforestation by emphasizing the need to protect and conserve biodiversity, maintain ecosystem services, and manage living natural resources sustainably IFC PS6 requires customers to take proactive steps to address deforestation and its impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity. E4-3 Key actions We have formulated actions from the reporting period at the operational level, which mainly address the material IROs, and at the strategic level. Additionally, we present the main future planned actions. The scope for these actions concerns our downstream investment portfolio. Operational actions in 2024 1. Increase the Green-labelled share of our portfolio. Investments are assessed based on potential impact and include increasing biodiversity positive-related investments in line with the relevant biodiversity criteria in our Green Label. Our investment teams seek opportunities in biodiversity finance on an ongoing basis. Our Sustainable Finance Advisory team provides investment teams with ongoing support on such transactions. Investment teams receive regular training on the label and opportunities in these focus areas. 2. Keep using and improving the IFC PS6 standard application including training and ESAPs at customer level to manage potential negative impact. Strategic actions in 2024 1. We developed a Biodiversity roadmap that describes how we plan to manage biodiversity impacts, risks and opportunities and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance by 2030. 2. We started developing our methodology to assess our dependency on nature, as part of our climate risk assessment project that is covered in 'E1 Climate change'. 3. We organized a training on managing negative impacts of biodiversity, in line with IFC PS6 to allow staff to upgrade their existing knowledge on the IFC PS6 content or process. Future planned actions 1. Green Label update planned for 2025. 2. KPI development to monitor strategic impact ambitions. We started the development of two KPIs to monitor strategic impact ambitions in 2024, covering both biodiversity opportunities and potential negative impacts; these are expected to be in place earliest in 2026. 3. Continue developing a pipeline for biodiversity financing in line with our strategic commitments. 176 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Table 25. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems Scope of actions The actions apply to FMO's value chain, with a focus on the downstream value chain. Time horizon · Operational/BAU actions are implemented within the reporting period. · Strategic actions are implemented in the period 2024-2026. · Future actions are all planned within the timeframe of the 2030 strategy. Actions taken to provide for and cooperate in or support the provision of remedy (if applicable) N/A Progress of actions As this is the first year we report within the structure of the ESRS, we do not report progress on actions from prior periods. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. Operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) (if required) No significant operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) related to implementing actions. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. In 'ESRS 2 - Governance of sustainability matters' we provide information on the teams and departments that are involved with the management of material IROs, which relate to the implementation of the operational actions described above. No actions described require significant OpEx or CapEx. In principle, we do not use biodiversity offsets in our action plans. However, on an individual investment level, FMO’s Biodiversity Mitigation hierarchy is based on IFC PS6 and denotes offsetting as a last resort for residual impact after following the implementation of prevention/avoidance, minimization, and restoration measures. Biodiversity offsets adhere to the ’like-for-like or 'better' principle and are designed and implemented to achieve measurable conservation outcomes that can reasonably be expected to result in no net loss of biodiversity and net gain in critical habitats. Additionally, on an individual project level, we identify any needs for offsets and apply specific relevant key performance indicators on a case-by-case basis. The same applies to financing effects and types, areas and quality criteria applied to the offsets. These will therefore not be described in more detail here as they are not part of our action plans. IFC PS6 Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources forms a key element of FMO’s ESG performance assessment of direct high-risk customers. When significant impacts on biodiversity are identified, our projects must develop and implement a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP), which explicitly describe the project’s mitigation strategy and how local and indigenous knowledge and nature-based solutions are incorporated into conservation strategies and actions. FMO ensures its projects consult protected area managers, affected communities, indigenous peoples and other stakeholders. Affected communities should participate in this identification process in accordance with the stakeholder engagement process as defined in IFC PS1. This process involves Indigenous Peoples’ representative bodies and organizations as well as members of the affected communities of indigenous peoples and provide sufficient time for indigenous peoples’ decision-making processes. Our stakeholder engagement process involves disclosure and dissemination of information, consultation and participation, grievance mechanism, and ongoing reporting to affected communities. Where projects are likely to generate adverse E&S impacts to affected communities, FMO will implement a Stakeholder Engagement Plan tailored to their characteristics and interests. Following IFC PS6, FMO makes every reasonable effort to verify that during this process, community representatives represent the views of affected communities and that they can be relied upon to faithfully communicate the results of consultations to their constituents. E4-4 Targets We currently have no specific biodiversity targets to manage the material IROs, and for the time being, we do not intend to set any specific targets. This topic is continuously evolving, which makes it currently challenging to predict progress and set reliable targets. 177 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"We do, however, have two portfolio targets (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management') that have a connection to our biodiversity portfolio: We register and monitor the different types of ESG risks of our high-risk customers and aim to have at least 90 percent of the ESG risks managed at an adequate level by the customers in our target list. This includes biodiversity-related risks through IFC PS6. We aim to grow our SDG 13-related investment portfolio to €10 billion by 2030, which includes but is not limited to biodiversity-related investments. E4-5 Metrics On an annual basis, FMO tracks entity specific metrics related to Biodiversity. These metrics enable us to monitor our objective regarding positive impact, as well as to identify, manage and monitor potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems through our impact management process. We assess the potential positive biodiversity impacts of investments ex-ante. This assessment is done through our Green Label, which we assign to investments that are expected to benefit biodiversity. The Green Label includes but is not limited to Biodiversity. FMO tracks the performance of high-risk customers against the requirements of the IFC PS’s in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. The methodology used to determine this metric and any identified performance gaps for the year as well as the Green Label have been outlined in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. 178 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"S1 Own Workforce S1 Introduction FMO will continue its commitment to further increase its impact in the coming years. In addition to the total number of employees, different skillsets will need to be developed to meet changing requirements in respect of impact & ESG themes, regulations and stakeholder expectations, as well as our strategic ambitions. FMO is actively cultivating a culture that values diversity, quality, integrity, and making a positive impact on society. We have an ambitious strategy towards 2030 and recognize the role of culture in long-term value creation. FMO is committed to fostering a work environment that prioritizes the wellbeing and development of its workforce and enabling a healthy and inspiring working environment. FMO provides equal treatment and opportunities for all and strives to create a workplace where everyone can thrive. In terms of FMO’s commitment to corporate culture, we comply with the Dutch Labor Law and Collective Labor Agreement (CLA Banks) to ensure employee rights and wellbeing are fully incorporated. Comprehensive onboarding and training programs give employees an understanding of FMO’s vision, strategy, and human rights fundamentals. FMO’s strategy integrates the interests, views, and rights of its workforce through a strong commitment to human rights, and embedded impact management framework following international standards like the UNGPs and OECD Guidelines to guide its human rights practices and sustainability policy with a focus on investments and customers, but also with respect to our own organization. This approach ensures that the rights, including labor rights, of people within FMO are respected and upheld. This sustainability statement describes FMO’s guidelines, processes, actions, metrics, and targets related to employees and non-employees, enabling the readers to understand its strategy, approach, processes, procedures, and performance in this area. FMO employees are individuals with an employment contract with FMO or a regional office subsidiary, whether for a definite or indefinite period. This includes the regional offices in South Africa, Kenya (branches), and Costa Rica (subsidiary). Non-employees include a variety of individuals such as contractors (including self-employed persons), consultants and secondees. Third Party contractors (security, catering, and cleaning) and Interns are excluded. All FMO employees and non-employees who can be materially impacted are included under this statement. S1 Impacts, risks and opportunities We identified the following impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) during the double materiality assessment (DMA). Table 26. IROs and Policies and Actions and Targets ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Working conditions Actual positive impact The actual positive impact on its own workforce, as a result of FMO fostering a working environment that prioritizes the health, safety, and well- being of employees, leading to positive working conditions for employees. Working conditions of our own workforce Short term Own operations No specific target 179 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
