"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 156 Start Climate change Strategy Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation As early as 2021, Sartorius identified key levers for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on the basis of a GHG emissions screening and initiated actions to reduce them. Building on this, the company is developing an ESRS-compliant climate change mitigation transition plan in fiscal 2025. Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation Sartorius’ ambition is to reduce the Group’s total GHG emissions to net zero by 2045. The Corporate Sustainability department is responsible for coordinating the topic of climate change mitigation. The company has not yet drawn up a comprehensive policy that includes general management principles and guidelines and the determination of specific responsibilities, as the initial focus – prioritized in line with resource constraints – was on launching specific climate change mitigation actions. Sartorius is currently working with internal and external experts to define a formal policy in this respect. The key content of the policy will include reducing GHG emissions and improving energy efficiency by putting various levers in place. Adapting the data basis so that the company can manage the resulting actions is fundamental to the policy. Sartorius aims to complete and publish the policy in fiscal 2025. Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies Sartorius has already undertaken many actions at various levels to reduce GHG emissions in order to achieve its company-wide climate targets and continued to do so in the reporting year. Examples of actions underpinning the individual levers are: ▪ Energy & infrastructure: Supply contracts are gradually being converted to the purchase of electricity from renewable sources. Where it makes sense, Sartorius is installing solar panels on its own buildings. ▪ Supply chain: Sartorius has entered into dialogue with selected suppliers to discuss and agree on ways to reduce emissions. In particular, this includes the use of renewable energy. The Group is continually extending this dialogue to other suppliers. ▪ Logistics: The company is examining opportunities for reducing emissions by changing over to less GHG-intensive means of transportation. Specifically, transportation was switched from air to sea in the fiscal year. In addition, some established supply routes were converted to electric trucks with selected partners. ▪ Eco design for packaging: Packaging is being optimized in terms of its size and weight as well as the choice of material. This includes selecting less GHG-intensive materials and switching to mono-materials."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 157 Start ▪ Eco design for products: The design of products with regard to their GHG impact is particularly challenging in the pharmaceutical sector. Nevertheless, Sartorius is facing up to the task and has already launched a number of projects in this regard – including in collaboration with customers and suppliers. In particular, the focus is on alternatives to GHG-intensive crude oil-based virgin plastic. Sartorius is unable to report on the required MDR-A disclosures at this time as the Group has not yet formalized its action plan due to resource constraints. Consequently, the actions have not yet been fully quantified, scheduled, and assigned dedicated responsibilities and financial resources. The company is currently working on these steps. The results of these activities in terms of achieved and expected GHG reductions will be presented in future reports as soon as the action plan has been finalized and a consistent methodology for measuring GHG reductions has been implemented. Aside from the taxonomy-aligned operating expenditures (OpEx) and capital expenditures (CapEx) presented in the section on “Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)”, Sartorius has not reported any further OpEx and CapEx relating to climate change mitigation for the reporting year, as its climate change mitigation action plan has not yet been defined. Metrics and targets Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation Scope 1 and 2 The Sartorius Executive Board has decided to reduce avoidable gross Scope 1 and market-based gross Scope 2 GHG emissions to zero by 2030. Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions resulting from the use of solvents and refrigerants are considered unavoidable emissions given the current state of technology. Accordingly, avoidable emissions include all energy consumption-related emissions. As vehicle fleet emissions were not available when the target was being set and so were not included in the base year, avoidable emissions are therefore defined as all stationary emissions. Likewise, biogenic CO2 emissions were not taken into account. The aforementioned Scope 1 and 2 target is an absolute GHG reduction target measured in tons of CO2eq. In addition, the Executive Board has decided that all external electricity procurement is to come from 100% renewable sources by 2030. The above-mentioned Scope 1 and 2 targets are designed to reduce GHG emissions and consequently the company’s climate-related impacts, thereby helping Sartorius achieve its ambition of reducing GHG emissions to net zero by 2045. The targets cover the stationary energy consumption-related business activities of Sartorius in its own operations worldwide and are based on the assumption that renewable energy will actually be available at Sartorius sites in 2030. The targets are based on Sartorius’ own ambitions along with the requirements of stakeholder groups and a comparison with the political and market environment. The main lever for reducing the targeted gross Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions is the use of renewable electricity and an energy-efficient building infrastructure. If Sartorius can electrify its whole building infrastructure, these targets would be fully achievable. Reduction of CO2 emission intensity In addition to the Scope 1 and Scope 2 targets, Sartorius has set itself the goal of reducing total gross GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) relative to consolidated turnover in 2021. Sartorius-specific “CO2eq emission"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 167 Start ▪ 2 Capital goods: Here, emissions were calculated entirely on the basis of expenditures, i.e., without data from life cycle assessments of the capital goods. ▪ 9 Downstream transportation: Here, the emissions were estimated entirely on the basis of an expert opinion. ▪ 11 Use of sold products: The emissions were not measured by the actual energy consumption of the products, but calculated based on the estimated consumption of typical products. ▪ 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products: The emissions were based entirely on assumptions about global waste disposal, as no information was available on how customers actually disposed of the products Given the many estimates and assumptions involved, Sartorius currently treats the GHG emissions calculated on the basis of the methodologies described above as merely an indication. The GHG accounting will gradually be specified in more detail in the coming years so as to enable better management of emissions. In particular, this will involve switching from the spend-based calculation method to a more specific driver-based calculation method. Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits In the reporting period, Sartorius did not develop any projects for the removal or storage of greenhouse gases, nor did it contribute to any such projects in the upstream or downstream value chain. Please also note that the company did not purchase or plan to purchase any carbon credits during this period. As such, no emission reductions or removals were financed or intended to be financed by climate change mitigation projects outside the value chain. Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing No internal carbon pricing schemes were used or implemented in the reporting period. As such, there are no internal shadow prices, carbon fees or carbon funds that influenced decision-making or provided incentives for implementing climate-related policies and targets. Disclosure requirement E1-9 – Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks This disclosure is not currently relevant for Sartorius because no material physical risks or transition risks were identified in the reporting year."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 168 Start Pollution Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution Compliance with local environmental protection laws and requirements is a core component of the Sartorius Group-wide Code of Conduct. Sartorius also endeavors to go above and beyond legal requirements in countries where the company operates and to minimize the environmental impacts of its business activities. Responsibility for this lies with the Sartorius sites, which have put in place corresponding management systems for this purpose. These systems not only guarantee legal compliance but also promote continuous improvement in environmental performance. They also use procedural instructions to govern the handling of hazardous substances at Sartorius sites as well as emergency planning for unexpected events such as sudden pollution, an accident or a natural disaster. Some of these systems are externally certified to the recognized ISO 14001 standard. To ensure that suppliers also take responsibility, Sartorius’ Code of Conduct for Business Partners requires that its business partners have an appropriate environmental protection management system in place and take appropriate environmental protection measures. The current policy at Sartorius is not yet coordinated and monitored Group-wide. The company is currently working with internal and external experts to develop and formalize a policy in this respect that will include definitions of general management principles and guidelines and the determination of specific responsibilities. Sartorius aims to complete and publish the policy in fiscal 2025. Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution The Sartorius Group’s environmentally sensitive sites pursue environmental protection independently and provide the necessary human and financial resources. Preventing pollution caused by the use of hazardous substances is a particular priority. High volumes of hazardous substances are required in membrane production. So, for example, distillation plants are operated at the relevant sites in Göttingen, Germany, and Yauco, Puerto Rico so as to almost fully recycle the solvents in the production water and enable them to be reused. Non-recyclable solvent residues are disposed of professionally by contracted service providers. In accordance with official approvals, production wastewater is discharged into the sewage system or undergoes further treatment by external service providers. In addition, Sartorius provides transparency both locally and centrally about the hazardous substances it purchases and their use in the final products. In line with the EU Regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) or other equivalent regulations on international markets, hazardous substances are managed and customers are informed about hazardous substances in products. Suppliers’ compliance with environmental protection requirements is monitored by self-assessments and audits under Sartorius’ human rights due diligence system. The company refers to its explanations in S2-1. The actions specified are ongoing, without a fixed time horizon. The company is currently working on formalizing its actions by scoping strategic targets, i.e. quantified actions with defined time-horizons and"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 169 Start responsibilities and the requisite financial resources along with specific effectiveness monitoring. As such, the company cannot provide disclosures on financial resources at present. Likewise, achieved and expected progress on pollution as a result of these actions can also be presented in future reports as soon as a consistent methodology for measuring progress is in place. Metrics and targets Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution The company has not yet set any Group-wide targets for pollution. This is because existing management is decentralized. In formalizing the pollution prevention policy, the company is working on setting up measurable, time-bound and outcome-oriented targets, including metrics to measure effectiveness for the entire Group. The company has decided not to define Group-wide targets at present as it is concentrating on the core development and implementation of policies and actions that address the main impacts, risks and opportunities relating to environmental pollution, such as the use of hazardous substances. Disclosure Requirement E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high concern In the reporting year, the total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that were generated, used or procured during production (inflow amount) was 879 t. Most of this was reprotoxic or carcinogenic. The total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (outflow amount) was 288 t. Most of this was carcinogenic (199 t). The difference between the inflow and outflow is mainly due to the fact that Sartorius sends a certain solvent to a recycling company for treatment after several usage cycles, then repurchases it. Total amounts of substances of concern 2024 Inflow: Total amount of substances of concern that were generated, used or procured during production (t) by main hazard class: 879 Reprotoxic 672 Carcinogenic 199 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Specific target organ toxicity (single exposure) 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 Outflow: Total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (t) by main hazard class: 288 Reprotoxic 80 Carcinogenic 199 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Specific target organ toxicity (single exposure) 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 The total amount of substances of very high concern under ESRS that were generated, used or procured during production (inflow amount) was 17 t. The total amount of substances of very high concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (outflow amount) was also 17 t."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 171 Start master data and purchasing data. Where no net weight was available, figures were calculated by multiplying the expenditure by a self-determined weighting factor. The substances were assigned to hazard classes from the specified databases. The total amount of substances of concern leaving the company as emissions or products is assumed to be the same as the amounts purchased. The amounts of substances of concern that were returned to a recycling company for reprocessing and subsequently repurchased were deducted, as they did not leave the company as emissions or products. Validation: There is no external validation of the metrics as a whole or the individual components. Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances: Value chain estimation: This metric includes estimated data from the upstream value chain. In specific cases, some net amounts were estimated as described above, with self-calculated weighting factors. Sartorius is continuously working on improving its data processes. Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty: As explained earlier, the calculated total weight of the inflow is partly based on an estimate of the net weight of the purchased components, products and materials. Equating the resource outflow with the resource inflow causes another uncertainty. As the Group currently has no standardized database for substances of concern, the disclosures are estimated using the purchasing system. Disclosure Requirement E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from material pollution-related risks In line with ESRS, Sartorius will start reporting on the anticipated financial effects of these risks starting in 2027, as the legislator is introducing the reporting obligations gradually."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 172 Start Resource use and circular economy Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy Developing an approach to the sustainable use of resources is a complex challenge for Sartorius as a supplier to the biopharmaceutical industry. It requires the Group to harmonize various matters including sustainability but also quality, safety and efficiency requirements. For several reasons and based on various advantages, plastic-based single-use products from primary fossil feedstock, such as bags and filters, were introduced in the biopharmaceutical industry in the early 1990s. First, they help to reduce the risk of contamination that exists in stainless steel systems due to sometimes inefficient cleaning. They are also more flexible and so can be deployed more quickly in production facilities. As such, single-use technologies can speed up time-to- market for new treatments. But by law, single-use products normally have to be incinerated as contaminated waste at the end of their life. This means that recycling them is not possible as things stand in terms of current industry practice and infrastructure. These technologies are highly relevant to Sartorius’ business volume, accounting for around 60–70% of turnover. Sartorius firmly believes that it can improve resource use and circular economy factors relating to these products along the value chain. The Executive Board therefore reaffirmed its ambitions for this at the beginning of 2024, and discussed targets for managing it. In particular, this entails eco design, decoupling materials use from fossil feedstock, increasing the recyclability of products and avoiding operational landfill waste. The company has not yet drawn up a policy that includes general management principles and guidelines and the determination of specific responsibilities. Due to resource constraints, the Corporate Sustainability department is tackling topics one by one, with an initial focus on climate issues in line with the high level of internal and external interest. Sartorius is currently working on defining a formal policy. However, due to the complexity of the challenges involved, the only way to develop a specific approach to implementation is in consultation with relevant stakeholders. The Group therefore liaises ongoing with industry associations, but also bilaterally with customers, suppliers and the scientific community to discuss potential solutions. Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy Sartorius is already taking numerous actions at various levels to implement its approach to resource use and circular economy. Sartorius continued its product life cycle assessment activities in the reporting year and leveraged the findings for product design optimization potential. The company also took action to reduce its raw materials consumption and the amount of waste in the value chain and own operations: ▪ Certain products in the Lab Products & Services Division were analyzed, primarily for the circularity principles of service life, reuse, repairability and recyclability. ▪ The Bioprocess Solutions Division investigated how bio-based and recycled raw materials can be used in Sartorius products in the reporting year. The ISCC+ certified mass balance"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 173 Start approach allows these sustainable raw materials to be used in production and their sustainable properties to be transferred to the end products by means of a certificate. The sustainable raw materials need not necessarily be physically present in every product. Instead, the proportion of sustainable materials is calculated across the entire production chain and allocated to the end products. This ensures transparency and traceability in the supply chain. One advantage of this method is that the product properties remain unchanged, making it suitable for use in strictly regulated fields such as the pharmaceutical industry. In order to be able to use the mass balance approach, Sartorius began to have certain sites certified to the ISCC+ standard in the reporting year. Operational waste management is an ongoing action at some relevant production sites. This includes the avoidance, reuse, recycling and other recovery of operational waste before external disposal by contracted waste management companies. The aforementioned actions are not currently subject to a specific time horizon. Their expected outcomes include lower GHG emissions and lower pollution to the benefit of the world’s climate and ecosystem. The company is currently working on formalizing its actions by scoping strategic targets, i.e. quantified actions with defined time-horizons and responsibilities and the requisite financial resources, and monitoring their effectiveness. As such, the company cannot provide disclosures on financial resources at present. Achieved and expected progress on resource use and circular economy as a result of these actions will be presented in future reports as soon as a consistent methodology for measuring progress is in place. Metrics and targets Disclosure Requirement E5-3 - Targets related to resource use and circular economy The company is carefully analyzing the metrics first prepared and presented in ESRS E5-4 and ESRS E5-5 in fiscal 2024, to identify trends and develop and implement appropriate targets and actions. Due to resource constraints, the company has not yet implemented any targets for monitoring the effectiveness of resource use and circular economy policies and actions. In formalizing the policy, the company is working on setting up measurable, time-bound and outcome-oriented targets, including metrics to measure effectiveness for the entire Group. Disclosure Requirement E5-4 - Resource inflows Sartorius sources a wide range of raw materials and supplies to manufacture its products and product packaging – in particular, plastic, metal and electronic components and chemicals, and cardboard for product packaging. The plastics used are mostly primary materials from fossil sources. The company does not directly procure any critical materials. However, some purchased electronic components, for example chips, semiconductors and batteries, can contain i.a. critical materials like lithium, tungsten and silicon metal. In addition, rare earth metals are processed in the electronic components. The total weight of the technical and biological materials used to manufacture products and provide services during the reporting period was 20,625 t. This figure includes both the materials that were used directly in the production processes and those that were needed for packaging and additional services. The proportion of biological materials from certified sustainable sourcing cannot be determined for the 2024 reporting year. Although the company has integrated the technical requirements for this in the material master data system, it relies on information from suppliers. The company is therefore making use of a transitional"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 175 Start Disclosure Requirement E5-5 - Resource outflows Sartorius’ resource outflows are classified as products and waste. Key product categories include consumables and instruments (e.g., electronic products). The company does not currently manufacture any products that are explicitly designed according to circular principles. A large part of the product portfolio, the consumables, is in fact explicitly intended for single use due to legal requirements concerning quality and subsequent disposal by the customer. However, electronic products already address sustainability matters in that they are repairable and durable. In line with the European WEEE Directive 2012/19/EU, old appliances in the EU must also be taken back by Sartorius or by authorized partners and sent for recycling. In continuing to formalize its policy and actions on resource use and circular economy, Sartorius will examine additional possibilities for developing products according to circular principles. The expected durability of the products placed on the market by Sartorius relative to the industry average varies by product group. In the instruments product category, the expected durability of the products that Sartorius places on the market is 9 years on average. Larger biopharmaceutical devices last up to 15 years. Sartorius is not aware of the industry average and hence cannot make a statement on durability relative to the industry average. Services are used to increase the durability of sold products. However, as Sartorius offers a large number of repair and maintenance services, the company cannot make a blanket statement on increasing the durability of Group’s products. As regards repairability, Sartorius attaches particular importance to ensuring that its instruments are easy to repair. This includes the long-term provision of spare parts to extend the service life of the products and so minimize their environmental footprint. The products sold by Sartorius had an estimated recyclable content of 16%. This percentage relates to the instruments product category, where adhesive joints are largely avoided so that the individual parts can be easily separated and thus recycled. This supports the goal of a circular economy and reduces the environmental impacts of the products. In addition, 18% of the packaging is made from recyclable materials, which helps to reduce waste and conserve resources. Operational waste amounted to 8,550 t in the reporting year. Of this, 4,625 t were diverted from disposal and 3,924 t were sent for disposal, respectively accounting for 54% and 46% of total waste. The waste diverted from disposal breaks down as follows: Hazardous waste totaled 1,951 t. Of this, 0 t was sent for preparation for reuse, 556 t for recycling and 0 t for other recovery processes. Non-hazardous waste totaled 4,069 t. Of this, 29 t was sent for preparation for reuse, 4,040 t for recycling and 0 t for other recovery processes. The waste destined for disposal breaks down as follows: Hazardous waste totaled 1,395 t. Of this, 1,254 t was sent for incineration, 0 t to landfill and 140 t for other methods of disposal. Non-hazardous waste totaled 2,530 t. Of this, 750 t was sent for incineration, 977 t to landfill and 802 t for other methods of disposal. The total amount of non-recycled waste amounted to 3,925 t and accounted for 46% of total waste. The main types of waste in relevant sector-specific waste streams included hazardous waste (23%) and residual waste (22%). Other categories were waste paper (16%), plastic waste (15%), wood waste (10%) and other waste (15%)."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 178 Start are stored. The recyclable share is therefore based on the resource inflow, which includes an estimated weight share as described above under resource inflow. In addition, some of the waste reported by the consolidated Group companies to the head office is estimated in cases where the corresponding invoices are not available. Disclosure Requirement E5-6 – Anticipated financial effects from resource use and circular economy- related risks and opportunities This disclosure is not currently relevant for Sartorius because no material physical risks relating to resource use and circular economy were identified in the reporting year."
