--- cchbc-iar-2024.pdf.downloadasset ---
"In 2024, we identified four confirmed cases of corruption involving employees. All were thoroughly investigated in accordance with internal guidelines, resulting in appropriate actions, including the dismissal of four individuals – one of whom had already left the company before the violation was discovered. Of the four incidents, three resulted in employee dismissal or disciplinary action, while one involved a supplier, leading to the non-renewal of their business contract. No public legal cases were brought against Coca-Cola HBC during the reporting period. Fair competition We are committed to promoting awareness and ensuring full compliance with applicable competition laws and regulations across all our operations. Mandatory annual trainings on competition law for employees, including senior management, are implemented across all countries. In 2024, there were no decisions with findings of anti-competitive behaviour on the part of our company. Taxation We are committed to complying with both the spirit and letter of all applicable tax laws, rules and regulations in every jurisdiction where we operate. Our Tax Policy outlines governance procedures and risk management best practices to ensure robust tax compliance and reporting across the Group. We publish a Tax Transparency Report that reflects our commitment to openness and accountability. Additionally, we closely monitor developments in the fast-evolving tax reporting landscape to prepare for upcoming regulatory changes. In this regard, we collaborate with trusted tax advisers and statutory auditors to ensure our approach remains compliant and aligned with best practices. Explanation of key performance indicators In accordance with Annex I to the Delegated Act under Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation, the following KPIs are used to determine the proportion of eligible and aligned activities. By relying on our detailed financial statements, clearly distinguishing activity definitions and allocating appropriately expenses, we ensure that double counting is avoided. Turnover Turnover corresponds to the net sales figure presented in the consolidated income statement under IFRS 15, as detailed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. No eligible or aligned turnover is recognised, as the ‘Food and beverage manufacturing’ economic activity is not in scope of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. Capital expenditure (Capex) Taxonomy-relevant Capex is determined as follows: • Capex denominator: This includes the total additions of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets as well as the addition of right- of-use assets for leases recognised under IFRS 16. These relate to Notes 13, 14 and 16 of the consolidated financial statements. In 2024, the Capex additions amounted to €795.2 million. • Capex numerator: For eligibility, capital expenditure has been allocated to assets associated with the Taxonomy-eligible activities listed above. For alignment, the eligible assets have been thoroughly assessed against the respective TSC and DNSH criteria. As a result, we identified €5.3 million in EU Taxonomy- aligned investments linked to activities CE1.1, CCM4.25, CCM5.1, CCM5.2 and CCM7.4. Operating expenditure (Opex) • Opex denominator: This refers to direct non-capitalised costs related to research and development, building renovation measures, short-term leases, maintenance and repair and other direct expenses necessary for the continued and effective functioning of property, plant and equipment. The cost of goods sold is excluded from the definition, meaning the installation of solar panels through Power Purchase Agreements and the cost of sustainable packaging materials, such as rPET, are considered out of scope. For Coca-Cola HBC, we considered expenditures related to repair & maintenance, day-to-day servicing of assets and short-term leases. • Opex numerator: This captures Opex associated with activities deemed eligible and aligned. In 2024, while activities CE1.1, CCM6.5 and CCM7.7 were all identified as having eligible Opex, only activity CE1.1 contributed to the €1.0 million of aligned Opex. Our operations do not include activities related to natural gas or nuclear energy, as per the following table: Nuclear energy related activities 1. CCHBC carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. No 2. CCHBC carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. No 3. CCHBC carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. No Fossil gas related activities 4. CCHBC carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. No 5. CCHBC carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. No 6. CCHBC carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/ cool using fossil gaseous fuels1. No 1. With most CHP facilities operated by third parties, the most relevant expenditures fall under Opex, specifically utilities, which represent insignificant amounts. Moreover, utilities are not recognized as part of the EU Taxonomy denominator. Sustainability Statement continued Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 79 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Tables of EU Taxonomy KPIs Turnover Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities Code1 Absolute Revenue Proportion of Revenue Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity Minimum Safeguards Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2) proportion of Revenue (2023) Enabling3 activities category Transitional4 activities category € million % Y, N, EL, N/EL2 Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Turnover from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Turnover from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 0.0 0.00% Of which enabling (E) 0.0 0.00% Of which transitional (T) 0.0 0.00% A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible Turnover (not Taxonomy-aligned) Turnover from Taxonomy- eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not Taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) 0.0 0.00% A. Turnover from Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 0.0 0.00% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Turnover from activities that are not Taxonomy-eligible 10,754.4 100.00% Total (A+B) 10,754.4 100.00% 1. The Code abbreviations of the relevant environmental objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution: CCM = climate change mitigation; CCA = climate change adaptation; WTR = water and marine resources; PPC = pollution, prevention and control; CE = circular economy; BIO = biodiversity and ecosystems. 2. Meaning of abbreviations: Y = Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N = No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; EL = Eligible, Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL = Not eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; n/a = Not applicable, the criterion does not apply when assessing the DNSH of the specific activity. 3. Enabling Activities: An economic activity qualifies if it directly supports other activities in achieving a substantial contribution to one or more environmental objectives. To be classified as enabling, the activity must not result in a lock-in of assets that undermine long-term environmental goals, considering the economic lifetime of those assets and have a substantial positive environmental impact based on life-cycle considerations. 4. Transitional activities: These are activities for which no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives currently exist but that support the transition to a climate-neutral economy. They must align with a pathway that limits the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Sustainability Statement continued Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 80 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Tables of EU Taxonomy KPIs continued Capex Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities Code1 Absolute Capex Proportion of Capex Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity Minimum Safeguards Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2) proportion of Capex (2023) Enabling3 activities category Transitional4 activities category € million % Y, N, EL, N/EL2 Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Capex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Manufacture of plastic packaging goods CE 1.1 0.5 0.06% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Y N/EL Y Y Y Y n/a Y Y Production of heat/cool using waste heat CCM 4.25 0.8 0.10% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y n/a Y Y Y Y Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.1 1.0 0.12% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y Y n/a n/a Y Y Renewal of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.2 2.7 0.34% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y Y n/a n/a Y Y Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings (and parking spaces attached to buildings) CCM 7.4 0.4 0.05% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y n/a n/a n/a n/a Y E Capex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 5.3 0.67% 0.61% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.06% 0.00% Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Of which enabling (E) 0.4 0.05% 0.05% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% E Of which transitional (T) 0.0 0.00% 0.00% T A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible CapEx (not Taxonomy-aligned) Urban waste water treatment WTR 2.2 1.2 0.15% N/EL N/EL EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.1 0.4 0.06% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Renewal of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.2 1.7 0.21% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles CCM 6.5 48.7 6.12% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings CCM 7.4 0.4 0.05% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Acquisition and ownership of buildings CCM 7.7 33.9 4.26% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Capex from Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not Taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) 86.3 10.85% 10.70% 0.00% 0.15% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% A. Capex from Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 91.6 11.52% 11.30% 0.00% 0.15% 0.00% 0.06% 0.00% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Capex from activities that are not Taxonomy-eligible 703.6 88.48% Total (A+B) 795.2 100.00% 1. The Code abbreviations of the relevant environmental objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution: CCM = climate change mitigation; CCA = climate change adaptation; WTR = water and marine resources; PPC = pollution, prevention and control; CE = circular economy; BIO = biodiversity and ecosystems. 2. Meaning of abbreviations: Y = Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N = No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; EL = Eligible, Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL = Not eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; n/a = Not applicable, the criterion does not apply when assessing the DNSH of the specific activity. 3. Enabling Activities: An economic activity qualifies if it directly supports other activities in achieving a substantial contribution to one or more environmental objectives. To be classified as enabling, the activity must not result in a lock-in of assets that undermine long-term environmental goals, considering the economic lifetime of those assets and have a substantial positive environmental impact based on life-cycle considerations. 4. Transitional activities: These are activities for which no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives currently exist but that support the transition to a climate-neutral economy. They must align with a pathway that limits the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Sustainability Statement continued Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 81 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Tables of EU Taxonomy KPIs continued Opex Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities Code1 Absolute Opex Proportion of Opex Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity Minimum Safeguards Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2) proportion of Opex (2023) Enabling3 activities category Transitional4 activities category € million % Y, N, EL, N/EL2 Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Opex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Manufacture of plastic packaging goods CE 1.1 1.0 0.26% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Y N/EL Y Y Y Y n/a Y Y Opex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 1.0 0.26% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.26% 0.00% Y Y Y Y n/a Y Y Of which enabling (E) 0.0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% E Of which transitional (T) 0.0 0.00% 0.00% T A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible Opex (not Taxonomy-aligned) Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles CCM 6.5 32.8 8.45% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Acquisition and ownership of buildings CCM 7.7 31.0 7.99% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Opex from Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not Taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) 63.8 16.45% 16.45% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% A. Opex from Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 64.8 16.71% 16.45% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.26% 0.00% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Opex from activities that are not Taxonomy-eligible 323.0 83.29% Total (A+B) 387.8 100.00% 1. The Code abbreviations of the relevant environmental objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution: CCM = climate change mitigation; CCA = climate change adaptation; WTR = water and marine resources; PPC = pollution, prevention and control; CE = circular economy; BIO = biodiversity and ecosystems. 2. Meaning of abbreviations: Y = Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N = No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; EL = Eligible, Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL = Not eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; n/a = Not applicable, the criterion does not apply when assessing the DNSH of the specific activity. 3. Enabling Activities: An economic activity qualifies if it directly supports other activities in achieving a substantial contribution to one or more environmental objectives. To be classified as enabling, the activity must not result in a lock-in of assets that undermine long-term environmental goals, considering the economic lifetime of those assets and have a substantial positive environmental impact based on life-cycle considerations. 4. Transitional activities: These are activities for which no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives currently exist but that support the transition to a climate-neutral economy. They must align with a pathway that limits the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Sustainability Statement continued Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 82 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E1 – Climate change Strategy E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation E1-1_01,02,03,05,06,12,13,14,15, E1.MDR-A_06,07,09,10,11,12 & E1-3_05,06, E1-4_23 Our focus on clear targets and robust action plans around climate change is evident in our climate transition plan. We have committed to our NetZeroby40 journey since 2021, and the healthy liquidity position of the Group ensures proper funding of relevant initiatives every year. Our climate transition plan, first developed in 2021, covers the full value chain (scope 1, 2 and 3) and it is as per the 1.5 degree scenario, approved by the SBTi. Developed by a cross-functional team of experts, the plan was approved by the ELT (through Sustainability SteerCo) and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the BoD. Coca-Cola HBC considers five main levers and those are the main actions for each lever: 1. Manufacturing (includes scope 1 fuels used, scope 1 losses of CO2 used for beverage carbonation, scope 2 electricity/heat/steam/ hot water purchased) • Continue implementing and accelerating the energy-efficient projects in our plants (deployment of energy saving projects, old equipment modernization, and installation of heat pumps & electrification). • Improving the CO2 yield in the plants. • Accelerating usage of renewable and/ or cleaner energy to replace fossil fuel in scope 1 or electricity/heat/steam/ hot water in scope 2. 2. Transportation (includes scope 1 fuels used for own transport, both light and heavy, and scope 3 fuels used for outsourced logistics and transportation) • Optimising the routes of light and heavy fleet, increasing logistics efficiency and increasing heavy trucks utilization. • Shifting the existing fleet to innovative technologies and renewable or alternative fuels. • Enhancing the strategic partnerships with our third-party logistics providers and joint investments (accelerate shifting to alternative fuels, route to market evolution, shifting of more volume to trains and applying industry innovations). 3. Packaging (includes scope 3 from all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging used for our products) • Implementing our Packaging Mix of the Future strategy (increasing recycled PET, moving from non-reusable one-way glass bottles to reusable glass bottles and providing more packageless solutions). • Implementing decarbonisation of our primary and secondary packaging materials (aluminium cans, PET bottles, glass bottles, plastic labels, closures, stretch films etc.). 4. Ingredients (includes scope 3 from all ingredients used for manufacturing of our beverages) • Decarbonisation initiatives with our suppliers (engagement of farmers through co- development of farming pilots with suppliers, using regenerative agricultural practices). • Continue reformulation of our products and moving to more lights and zero products in our beverage portfolio. 5. Drink Equipment (includes scope 3 of electricity used by our customers for the drink equipment we provide, scope 1 for refrigerant losses from cold drink equipment) • Accelerate the process of providing energy efficient drink equipment to our customers and finding innovative solutions for further energy efficiency of our drink equipment. • Greening the electricity grid mainly in Europe and with slower pace in Africa. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 83 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline Target to be achieved 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Description of target Planning to achieve the target Constantly assure that our wastewater meets the local regulatory standard or TCCC KORE standards, whatever is the stringent Absolute Yearly 2009 Continuous 100% Water Resilience Coalition Assure that every manufacturing plant meets the criteria for wastewater treatment and treat the wastewater to the levels supporting aquatic life either via investment in own wastewater treatment facility or by joining municipality (or private) treatment facility. Constant monitoring of the parameters, upgrade and expansion of the wastewater facilities, building a new facility in Egypt. Assure water stewardship/water management certification in each plant (either Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) or ISO 46001) Absolute Yearly 2015 Achieve 100% of plants to be certified and maintain continuously 25 plants out of 60 beverage plants; the remaining 35 are in a preparation process Water Resilience Coalition Assure water stewardship/water management certification in each plant (either Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) or ISO 46001) 2026 and recertification every 3 years Decrease water usage ratio per litre of produced beverage Relative Yearly 2023 (prior year as it is rolling target) At least 1% reduction vs 2023 1.78 Water Resilience Coalition Decrease water usage ratio per litre of produced beverage by at least 1% in 2024 vs 2023 Deploying water successful practices, according to the TCCC Water Maturity Self-Assessment tool, which is an integral part of our water stewardship programme, requested to be fulfilled and updated on a yearly basis by every bottling plant. TCCC Water Maturity Self-Assessment tool contains a list of 48 water-saving practices, with a proper library of details and implementation tips, which has to be assessed by every plant. Continuous process of water savings implementation. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 113 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E3.MDR-T_10, 11 & E3-3_01 We set measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound targets for water stewardship, grounded in the TNFD framework and aligned with the UN SDGs. All of the targets are voluntary. We follow a three-step process to ensure our targets are scientifically sound and relevant. These targets are developed through a structured, inclusive and scientifically sound process. The approach begins with identifying key areas where our operations depend on or impact water resources, with a focus on high-risk geographies identified through comprehensive risk assessments. These water-risk, or water- priority locations face specific challenges such as water scarcity, limited access to water and sanitation services for local communities, and declining water quality within watersheds. Evidence-based evaluations of water-related risks and opportunities guide our actions to ensure they are beneficial to local ecosystems. Lastly, we have initiated our engagement with the SBTN. Notably, SBTN has recently updated its methodology, and as a result, we plan to establish our freshwater targets in alignment with their framework in the next years. Stakeholder engagement is pivotal to this process, particularly through Annual Stakeholder Forums and frequent meetings with local communities, farmers, municipalities, NGOs and primary sugar and sweetener suppliers to address critical environmental topics, including water footprint, water usage, emissions reduction and deforestation. The insights gathered from these engagements, along with the expectations of ESG raters and investors, inform the formulation of ambitious, data-driven targets, such as reducing water usage and replenishing water resources in high-risk locations. Additionally, the Group prioritises initiatives such as water-replenishment activities, nature-based solutions, wetland restorations, and improvements to water quality in these regions. Collaborating closely with stakeholders and local communities, we strive to ensure access to safe, clean water, while addressing water-related challenges through sustainable water management across our operations. E3-4 Water consumption E3-4_01-07, 11 Table 23: Water consumption performance Parameters Unit Performance (2024) Water withdrawal m3 30,894,756 Total water consumption m3 18,239,702 Total water consumption in areas at water risk, including all areas of high-water stress m3 9,415,396 Total water consumption only in areas of high-water stress m3 6,470,879 Total water recycled and reused m3 1,680,670 Total water stored and changes in storage m3 0 Changes in storage m3 0 Water withdrawal is measured using flowmeters installed in any of the water source we use, while water consumption is calculated as the difference between withdrawal and discharged wastewater. Primary data on water extraction, categorised by source, is collected on a monthly basis. Progress towards water usage targets is monitored regularly using specialised software, ensuring accurate and timely tracking of performance. Monthly reviews with the management at local plant, country and Group level are performed to monitor performance and actions. Following the ESRS definition on water risk, we have 29 plants located in areas with certain water risk (lack of clean water and sanitation (WASH) for communities, water quality, reputational risk, high-water stress). Out of them, 20 plants are situated in watersheds with high-water stress as per the latest version of the WRI Aqueduct tool. For example, one of those watersheds is the Asopos River basin in Greece where we implement water replenishment activities in collaboration with the local municipality and NGOs. As per our internal evaluation, considering the local site-specific context, done for our Mission 2025 commitments, 19 of our plants are designated as priority plants, located in areas facing challenges related to basin water quantity, water quality or WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) for communities. E3-4_08, 10 Table 24: Water intensity index Intensities Total water consumption (m3) Net revenue (million EUR) Production (million litres) Performance (2024) Water intensity per net revenue 18,239,702 10,754.4 – 1.696 l/EUR Water intensity per units of production 18,239,702 – 15,974.9 1.142 l/lpb Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 114 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystem SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model E4.SBM-3_05 Through our double materiality assessment, we have identified a material impact within our upstream value chain specifically related to land use change. However, no material impact has been identified in relation to soil degradation, desertification, or soil sealing. E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model E4-1_01 Protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is one of our main sustainability priorities. Our biggest impact on the biodiversity landscape occurs in the upstream segment of our value chain, and it is related to the potential deforestation (land use change) from some agricultural commodities, mostly wood (used for our paper packaging materials). We are committed to eliminate deforestation of our main ingredients by 2025, and it is aligned with the recommendations by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) for companies with Forest, Land and Agricultural Activities (FLAG). Due to FLAG recommendations we have updated our net zero plan as stated in ESRS E1. Also, in our Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), we have requirements related to deforestation, and our target is to achieve 100% sustainable sourcing by 2025. We voluntarily report the sites which are adjacent to legally protected areas, and for all of them we have a confirmed ‘no negative impact’ by an external expert which performs so-called Source Vulnerability Assessment for all the water sources we use in direct operations. In 2022, we published our biodiversity statement where we set a goal to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. The time horizons we use are defined as follows: short-term (2024), medium-term (2025-2030), and long-term (2031-2050). E4-1_02 Environmental risks at supplier level, including deforestation risk, are mitigated through our robust programme at procurement level. We annually review the risks and performance of all our suppliers against our SGPs, PSA principles for agricultural ingredients, Water Risk Assessment, as well as other equally important aspects that impact our business, such as supply risk and financial stability. Overall, it is important to point out that sustainability is one of the key criteria in supplier selection under strategic sourcing, as well as a criterion for the Annual Supplier Review process that we conduct cross-functionally across our supply base. In more detail, to ensure that suppliers demonstrate ESG requirements’ compliance we rely on multiple screening and assessment practices that offer us a holistic view of their performance. This means we collect primary and secondary data that we combine together and analyse to identify priority areas for critical to our operations suppliers. The Sustainable Agriculture programme secures ESG monitoring through PSA certification process of the Coca-Cola System across our main agricultural commodities. For the remaining supply base, we have designed a robust assessment journey leveraging ESG physical audits, as well as a number of globally recognised screening and assessment tools such as EcoVadis IQ Plus, EcoVadis Assessments, SEDEX, WWF Water Risk Filter Assessment, Resilience Event Watch, Exiger and Moody’s Analytics. Additionally, annual Supply Base Assessments are carried out by specialist consultants for Group Critical suppliers. These assessments evaluate Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers on various criteria, including water risk, climate change, forced labour, child labour, labour rights, biodiversity, and financial risk. In case of any risk identified, the supplier is asked to provide an action plan which is monitored regularly. For deforestation, we have a specific project in place where we perform readiness assessment for all our supplier under the requirements of EUDR and we are currently organising our internal process to ensure we are able to assess risks and take necessary actions on an on-going basis from the moment that EUDR is formally introduced as of 1st of January 2026. While EUDR is covering specific Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 115 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued commodities, we are proactively collecting deforestation information from all agricultural ingredients suppliers across all our countries in order to have a holistic view of the exposure and potential risk. By the end of 2025, we will have a programme in place to cover any identified gaps. Last but not least, we are in process of implementing a deforestation tracking platform on top of any other activities already in motion, which will also be ready before the end of 2025. E4-1_03, 04, 05 The Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) has identified five pressures on nature: 1) land/water/sea use change, 2) resource exploitation, 3) climate change, 4) pollution and 5) invasive species. In 2023, we undertook the mapping and materiality assessment on biodiversity across our value chain and we assessed those pressures following the SBTN guideline step 1 and 2. We have collected all our activity data, covering: 1) upstream activities (volumes sourced and origin of raw materials), 2) direct operations (consumption of water and energy of all sites), and 3) downstream (packaging distribution by country). Then we translated the activity data into pressures on nature across five metrics. These pressures on nature were weighted by local nature vulnerability indicators assessing the state of nature in the locations where the activity occurs. Time horizons used in the analysis are as described in E4-1_01. We considered in the assumptions the tighter environmental regulations (e.g., EUDR), carbon pricing policies which would include land conversion activities, deforestation-free commitments from suppliers, and climate risks (e.g., water scarcity, extreme weather events). The result shows that the biggest impact we have is in upstream activities, mainly agricultural suppliers and their impact on land-use change or deforestation. Our procurement strategy to purchase certified raw materials that meet our PSA and our goal of achieving deforestation-free supply chain, support mitigation of the impact and also reduce any potential risk that may occur. E4-1_06 Relevance to stakeholder engagement is described in E4.MDR-T_11. E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-P_01 & E4-2_01, 20 We have adopted policies that address deforestation and sustainable land practices. Our overarching goal for biodiversity is to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Besides, we have set our Environmental Policy, the main objective of which is to minimise the environmental impact of the Group, and the Biodiversity Statement, the objective of which is to enhance biodiversity by reducing emissions and water use, by preserving and reinstating water priority areas, and by sourcing agricultural ingredients sustainably. Moreover, through the Biodiversity Statement, CCHBC is committed to promoting sustainable forest management and helping protect woodlands from deforestation and illegal harvesting. For the monitoring process, please refer to ESRS E1 section, as it constitutes the standard procedure applicable to all relevant topics. Our policies support biodiversity conservation, sustainable land management, and responsible sourcing. We are committed to achieving a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas by 2040 and eliminating deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Thus, our policies address ecosystem protection, sustainable forest management, and mitigation of environmental impacts. We recognise the importance of biodiversity for long-term resilience, as our Natural Capital Impact Study and Source Vulnerability Assessments (SVA) help identify key dependencies and risks, while sustainable sourcing practices mitigate transition risks. We implement traceability mechanisms through certifications, verification schemes, and supplier requirements aligned with The Coca-Cola Company’s Principles for Sustainable Agriculture and EcoVadis assessments. Moreover, our policies prioritise collaboration with NGOs, communities, and industry stakeholders to ensure sustainable supply chains that respect human rights, promote responsible land use, and protect natural ecosystems. E4.MDR-P_02 The policies are applicable across all geographies where Coca-Cola HBC operates. Among the affected stakeholder groups, farmers, other suppliers and local communities associated with the Group’s upstream value chain, are most significantly impacted. E4.MDR-P_03 Policies/statements related to environment (including biodiversity) are approved and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors, and they apply to all Coca-Cola HBC employees, regardless of level and function. E4.MDR-P_04 & E4-2_02 In June 2022, we joined the SBTN Corporate Engagement Program. We will continue working to implement the SBTN’s guidance, in order to map and assess the material impacts on biodiversity of our critical commodities and suppliers and then set science-based targets in priority areas. E4.MDR-P_05 We engage with a broad range of stakeholder groups for biodiversity, including our communities, governments, NGOs, investors and suppliers, taking into account their recommendations in the process of setting biodiversity-related policy. For more information, please refer to E1 section. E4.MDR-P_06 The Environmental Policy and the Biodiversity Statement are publicly available at our site (Policies | Coca-Cola HBC), which affected stakeholders can easily access. E4-2_03 The critical areas in our supply chain are defined based on the material dependencies that we have in relation to biodiversity, for example the provision of water, agricultural raw materials and wood. E4-2_04 We started mapping all our operations and critical commodities/suppliers. For our sustainability assessment, we use the risk-based approach with the support of our partners (EcoVadis). Transparency and traceability of material supply chains is established through certifications/ verification schemes or by ensuring suppliers have robust traceability of supply that meets our expectations (please see ‘Supplier Engagement, Verification and Assurance’ from TCCC Principles for Sustainable Agriculture). Also, we regularly measure and report on the progress made against our Mission 2025 commitments, and all other commitments, including those related to biodiversity and deforestation. The annual performance is disclosed in our Annual Report and the GRI Content Index, verified by an independent auditor, and published on our website. E4-2_05, 06, 07, 18 We are committed to sourcing 100% of our key ingredients in line with the Principles for Sustainable Agriculture as set out by TCCC. These principles protect and support biodiversity and ecosystems, uphold human and workplace rights, ensure animal health and welfare, and help build thriving communities. They apply to primary production, i.e., at farm level, and form the basis for our continued engagement with Tier 1 suppliers to ensure sustainable long-term supply at a lower environmental impact. This extends in particular to the sections Conservation of Forests, Conservation of Natural Habitats, Biodiversity and Ecosystems, Soil Management and Agrochemical Management. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 116 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Metrics and targets E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-A_01, 02, 05 & E4-3_01 Table 25: List of key actions and resources in relation to biodiversity Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Application of mitigation hierarchy Quantitative and qualitative information Biodiversity impact and risk assessment Yes Yes, it continues in 2025 Identify CCH’s most material impacts on nature and where they occur in the value chain Prioritise a shortlist of key contributors by location for target setting Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Use of the SBTN methodology. Assessment of the three steps of the value chain. Set targets for water replenishment. Entire value chain Global Suppliers, NGOs, communities, own employees, regulators Avoidance Completed step 1 and 2 of the SBTN methodology Collaborate with suppliers to develop plans to address land conversion risks and develop an appropriate monitoring system to measure deforestation at supplier level Yes Yes, it continues in 2025- 2026 The amount and % of our main commodities which are deforestation-free Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025 Continue collaboration with main agricultural suppliers; cross-functional work for assuring compliance with the EU DR Upstream Global Suppliers, NGOs, regulators Avoidance, Minimisation Meetings with main sugar suppliers performed in 2024; meetings with software provider for geo-satellite monitoring and deforestation monitoring done Biodiversity action near our Tylicz plant in Poland Yes Yes, it continues in the next three years Minimise negative impact and enhance river’s biodiversity Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Fish stocking of the Muszynka River near our Tylicz plant in Poland; two clean-up activities near plant and on riverbanks Own operations, downstream Poland Nature, communities, local municipality Reducing, restoring 3,000 common trout released in three river locations; 400kg waste collected Issue Biodiversity Whitepaper Yes 2025 Publish CSR Europe Alliance Biodiversity Whitepaper Build awareness and collaborate with industries and other stakeholders Work with other industry players from CSR Europe, NGOs and other partners to publish ‘How companies in Europe address biodiversity: Learning from disclosure’ Whitepaper Downstream Europe Other industry players, NGOs, regulators Transform Whitepaper published in February 2025 At this stage, we have not utilised biodiversity offsets or incorporated specific indigenous knowledge into our actions. Our approach is grounded in best practices, scientific knowledge and in the collaboration with our suppliers. For water stewardship projects that also impact biodiversity, please see ‘Table 21: List of actions in relation to water management’ on page 106. E4.MDR-A_03 Our biodiversity journey started in 2022. Our actions are work in progress as we follow the SBTN guidelines, and they are also in dynamic development phase. Our water replenishment activities will continue at least until 2030. Deforestation actions will continue beyond 2025. E4.MDR-A_04 Every site adjacent to legally protected areas has Source Vulnerability Assessment, which shows no negative impact on biodiversity. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 117 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Tables of EU Taxonomy KPIs continued Capex Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities Code1 Absolute Capex Proportion of Capex Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity Minimum Safeguards Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2) proportion of Capex (2023) Enabling3 activities category Transitional4 activities category € million % Y, N, EL, N/EL2 Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Capex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Manufacture of plastic packaging goods CE 1.1 0.5 0.06% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Y N/EL Y Y Y Y n/a Y Y Production of heat/cool using waste heat CCM 4.25 0.8 0.10% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y n/a Y Y Y Y Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.1 1.0 0.12% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y Y n/a n/a Y Y Renewal of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.2 2.7 0.34% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y Y n/a n/a Y Y Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings (and parking spaces attached to buildings) CCM 7.4 0.4 0.05% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL n/a Y n/a n/a n/a n/a Y E Capex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 5.3 0.67% 0.61% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.06% 0.00% Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Of which enabling (E) 0.4 0.05% 0.05% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% E Of which transitional (T) 0.0 0.00% 0.00% T A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible CapEx (not Taxonomy-aligned) Urban waste water treatment WTR 2.2 1.2 0.15% N/EL N/EL EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.1 0.4 0.06% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Renewal of water collection, treatment and supply systems CCM 5.2 1.7 0.21% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles CCM 6.5 48.7 6.12% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings CCM 7.4 0.4 0.05% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Acquisition and ownership of buildings CCM 7.7 33.9 4.26% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Capex from Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not Taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) 86.3 10.85% 10.70% 0.00% 0.15% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% A. Capex from Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 91.6 11.52% 11.30% 0.00% 0.15% 0.00% 0.06% 0.00% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Capex from activities that are not Taxonomy-eligible 703.6 88.48% Total (A+B) 795.2 100.00% 1. The Code abbreviations of the relevant environmental objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution: CCM = climate change mitigation; CCA = climate change adaptation; WTR = water and marine resources; PPC = pollution, prevention and control; CE = circular economy; BIO = biodiversity and ecosystems. 2. Meaning of abbreviations: Y = Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N = No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; EL = Eligible, Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL = Not eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; n/a = Not applicable, the criterion does not apply when assessing the DNSH of the specific activity. 3. Enabling Activities: An economic activity qualifies if it directly supports other activities in achieving a substantial contribution to one or more environmental objectives. To be classified as enabling, the activity must not result in a lock-in of assets that undermine long-term environmental goals, considering the economic lifetime of those assets and have a substantial positive environmental impact based on life-cycle considerations. 4. Transitional activities: These are activities for which no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives currently exist but that support the transition to a climate-neutral economy. They must align with a pathway that limits the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Sustainability Statement continued Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 81 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Tables of EU Taxonomy KPIs continued Opex Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities Code1 Absolute Opex Proportion of Opex Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change Adaptation Water Pollution Circular Economy Biodiversity Minimum Safeguards Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2) proportion of Opex (2023) Enabling3 activities category Transitional4 activities category € million % Y, N, EL, N/EL2 Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y, N, EL, N/EL Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N/n/a Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Opex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Manufacture of plastic packaging goods CE 1.1 1.0 0.26% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Y N/EL Y Y Y Y n/a Y Y Opex from environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 1.0 0.26% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.26% 0.00% Y Y Y Y n/a Y Y Of which enabling (E) 0.0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% E Of which transitional (T) 0.0 0.00% 0.00% T A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible Opex (not Taxonomy-aligned) Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles CCM 6.5 32.8 8.45% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Acquisition and ownership of buildings CCM 7.7 31.0 7.99% EL N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL Opex from Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not Taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) 63.8 16.45% 16.45% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% A. Opex from Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 64.8 16.71% 16.45% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.26% 0.00% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Opex from activities that are not Taxonomy-eligible 323.0 83.29% Total (A+B) 387.8 100.00% 1. The Code abbreviations of the relevant environmental objective to which the economic activity is eligible to make a substantial contribution: CCM = climate change mitigation; CCA = climate change adaptation; WTR = water and marine resources; PPC = pollution, prevention and control; CE = circular economy; BIO = biodiversity and ecosystems. 2. Meaning of abbreviations: Y = Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N = No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; EL = Eligible, Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL = Not eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective; n/a = Not applicable, the criterion does not apply when assessing the DNSH of the specific activity. 3. Enabling Activities: An economic activity qualifies if it directly supports other activities in achieving a substantial contribution to one or more environmental objectives. To be classified as enabling, the activity must not result in a lock-in of assets that undermine long-term environmental goals, considering the economic lifetime of those assets and have a substantial positive environmental impact based on life-cycle considerations. 4. Transitional activities: These are activities for which no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives currently exist but that support the transition to a climate-neutral economy. They must align with a pathway that limits the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Sustainability Statement continued Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 82 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E1 – Climate change Strategy E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation E1-1_01,02,03,05,06,12,13,14,15, E1.MDR-A_06,07,09,10,11,12 & E1-3_05,06, E1-4_23 Our focus on clear targets and robust action plans around climate change is evident in our climate transition plan. We have committed to our NetZeroby40 journey since 2021, and the healthy liquidity position of the Group ensures proper funding of relevant initiatives every year. Our climate transition plan, first developed in 2021, covers the full value chain (scope 1, 2 and 3) and it is as per the 1.5 degree scenario, approved by the SBTi. Developed by a cross-functional team of experts, the plan was approved by the ELT (through Sustainability SteerCo) and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the BoD. Coca-Cola HBC considers five main levers and those are the main actions for each lever: 1. Manufacturing (includes scope 1 fuels used, scope 1 losses of CO2 used for beverage carbonation, scope 2 electricity/heat/steam/ hot water purchased) • Continue implementing and accelerating the energy-efficient projects in our plants (deployment of energy saving projects, old equipment modernization, and installation of heat pumps & electrification). • Improving the CO2 yield in the plants. • Accelerating usage of renewable and/ or cleaner energy to replace fossil fuel in scope 1 or electricity/heat/steam/ hot water in scope 2. 2. Transportation (includes scope 1 fuels used for own transport, both light and heavy, and scope 3 fuels used for outsourced logistics and transportation) • Optimising the routes of light and heavy fleet, increasing logistics efficiency and increasing heavy trucks utilization. • Shifting the existing fleet to innovative technologies and renewable or alternative fuels. • Enhancing the strategic partnerships with our third-party logistics providers and joint investments (accelerate shifting to alternative fuels, route to market evolution, shifting of more volume to trains and applying industry innovations). 3. Packaging (includes scope 3 from all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging used for our products) • Implementing our Packaging Mix of the Future strategy (increasing recycled PET, moving from non-reusable one-way glass bottles to reusable glass bottles and providing more packageless solutions). • Implementing decarbonisation of our primary and secondary packaging materials (aluminium cans, PET bottles, glass bottles, plastic labels, closures, stretch films etc.). 4. Ingredients (includes scope 3 from all ingredients used for manufacturing of our beverages) • Decarbonisation initiatives with our suppliers (engagement of farmers through co- development of farming pilots with suppliers, using regenerative agricultural practices). • Continue reformulation of our products and moving to more lights and zero products in our beverage portfolio. 5. Drink Equipment (includes scope 3 of electricity used by our customers for the drink equipment we provide, scope 1 for refrigerant losses from cold drink equipment) • Accelerate the process of providing energy efficient drink equipment to our customers and finding innovative solutions for further energy efficiency of our drink equipment. • Greening the electricity grid mainly in Europe and with slower pace in Africa. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 83 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued For more details on emissions reduction per lever, please see Table 9: Mitigation actions per decarbonisation lever. Coca-Cola HBC is not excluded from the EU Paris-aligned benchmarks. NetZeroby40 roadmap is presented in the Strategic Report, section ‘Earn our Licence to operate’ on page 25. In 2024, we invested €200 million of capital expenditure (Capex) on projects supporting the implementation of our climate transition plan, representing 29.4% of total Capex. We also invested €30 million driven by the higher cost of recycled PET compared to virgin PET, as we pursue our strategic objective to reach 35% rPET by 2025, positively influencing both the reduction of our scope 3 emissions and the transition to a circular economy. Our accounting system does not separately classify sustainability-related investments or costs, as both are reported in accordance with the general financial reporting principles. For Capex, however, we apply an internal process to identify expenditures fully aligned with the levers of the transition plan. This allows us to track and monitor investments that directly support our commitment to emissions’ reduction but does not necessarily consider larger investments that have multiple objectives, even when sustainability is one of them. The Capex and cost of packaging materials mentioned above are reflected in our financial statements, as part of the overall amounts reported in the cash flow statement and the income statement, reinforcing our climate change mitigation actions. In 2025, we plan to follow a similar approach, investing 30% of total Capex on projects supporting the implementation of our climate transition plan. We also expect that the higher spend for recycled PET compared to virgin PET will increase further in 2025 to approximately €60 million, as we accelerate our performance against our Mission 2025 target but also due to the EU requirement for a 25% minimum recycled content on PET beverage bottles. In the medium term, for the period 2026-2030, Capex investments that support our transition plan will gradually increase to reach 37% of Capex in 2030. Main drivers are the acceleration of investments to improve energy efficiency of our manufacturing plants and using more renewable fuel alternatives, the switch to coolers with even better energy profile and the increase in the contribution of returnable glass bottles to our package portfolio. As far as investments in Opex/ Cogs are concerned, we expect that they will also gradually increase, as we will use more packaging materials with recycled content and purchase more ingredients that are sustainably sourced. For the period after 2030, we expect to continue on the 2025-2030 trajectory of investments, both Capex and Opex/Cogs to support the faster reduction of emissions so that we can meet our NetZeroby40 commitment. Given the fast-paced nature of our business, being a consumer goods company, the rapid technological advancements, and the uncertainty in the regulatory environment, an attempt to assign investment amounts per decarbonisation action could result in misleading information. Hence, we maintain the approach we have followed in the past few years and report the percentage of total Capex that is related to projects that support the implementation of our transition plan. Our sustainable finance approach underpins the Group’s ability to align funding strategies with sustainability commitments, while supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals and EU Environmental Objectives. Financing mechanisms include a diverse range of instruments, ensuring flexibility in meeting both current and future financial requirements for action plans. The Group’s €500 million green bond, issued in September 2022 under the Green Finance Framework, was fully allocated to eligible projects by September 2023, as detailed in our Green Finance Report. Our sustainability-linked revolving credit facility of €800 million remains available until April 2026, although not specifically earmarked for funding the transition plan. These initiatives complement the Group’s broader access to diversified financial resources. Further details on financial instruments and resource allocation are available in Note 25, p.306. E1-1_07 By 2030, the only assets from scope 1 and 2 in manufacturing that could potentially lead to significant locked-in GHG emissions are the CHP plants outside Europe and boilers used in manufacturing facilities, as they will still operate with fossil fuels (natural gas mainly), and it will be difficult to switch to alternative or renewable fuels. We will run an innovation project in two of the manufacturing sites to use biomass for the boilers and based on the results we are planning to implement across all plants by 2040. In logistics, we will have around 2,000 own trucks (scope 1) by 2030 using fossil fuel. In light fleet, which is leased and changed every four years, we don’t expect significant locked-in emissions. As per our NetZeroby40 commitment, by 2050 we will not have main assets with significant locked-in emissions: CHP in operations will be either decommissioned or replaced by renewable fuel, and boilers’ fuel will be replaced by alternative systems. By 2050, we don’t expect any of our own trucks to run on fossil fuel. Cumulatively, by 2030 those locked-in emissions would be around 256,000 tonnes of CO2e or 6.9% of our scope 1, 2, 3 emissions. Those locked-in emissions are not likely to affect our NetZeroby40 commitment, as they will be effectively managed and minimised before 2040 as shared above. As we sell beverages, we don’t expect significant locked-in emissions in scope 3 category ‘Use of sold products’, neither by 2030 nor by 2040 or 2050. ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model E1.SBM-3_01,05 Climate change – caused by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, emitted from every business and activity – is leading to global temperature increase and extreme weather conditions around the world. Global warming impacts environment and society across our entire value chain: from suppliers, to customers and consumers. Managing our carbon footprint is our major transition risk related to climate change in the mid and long term, as emerged from the 2024 Double Materiality Assessment. The time horizons applied in the analysis and their business scenarios alignment are: • Short-term horizon: 2025 Annual business planning cycle which includes consideration of short-term risks and opportunities that affect annual performance objectives. • Medium-term horizon: 2030 Long-range planning that includes consideration of risks and opportunities that may affect medium-term objectives, financial viability assurance and allocation of capital for medium-term investments. • Long-term horizon: >2030 Long-term strategic planning including capital investments, mergers and acquisitions, impact of climate change, including meeting our NetZeroby40 commitments. Further details on the DMA process can be found in the ‘Materiality’ section of the IAR on pages 37 to 40 and on page 59 of this document. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 84 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1.SBM-3_02 We have a thoroughly designed Business Resilience programme that enables us to proactively manage risks – and embrace opportunities – so that we grow sustainably and meet our short-, medium- and long-term objectives. One of the most significant risks to our resilience over the longer term is climate change. By proactively preparing for and managing climate risk through our business strategy and capital investments, however, we can harness significant opportunities. E1.SBM-3_03,04 In our resilience analysis conducted in 2024, we used a variety of climate scenarios in our assessment of the potential impact of climate change on our business, including: RCP1.9, in order to be consistent with our Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) commitment and as representation of a best-case scenario from a climate action point of view; RCP4.5, as it represents the stated policy position and provides a midpoint scenario, and; RCP8.5, as the ‘worst- case’ or ‘extreme’ scenario, particularly for physical risks. This enabled us to consider a broad range of drivers and their impact. In considering the cost of carbon emissions, the more ambitious scenarios assume a greater amount of government use of regulation, taxes and levies and hence the higher costs of carbon. However, we also assumed that government intervention would not be consistent across all our markets given our diverse operating territories, and therefore countries were grouped into leaders, followers and laggards in evaluating potential increases in taxes and levies. As around 90% of our carbon emissions are scope 3, we are dependent on suppliers and customers reducing their carbon emissions. In estimating the reduction in overall carbon emissions and our ability to meet our NetZeroby40 targets, we used NGFS data to estimate industry decarbonisation rates which are assumptions built into our internal plans for meeting our NetZeroby40 target. Included in our assessment of the impact of climate change on our production and distribution, we used external data used by the insurance industry which we consider to be robust. However, we note that climate-related data can project general changes under different climate scenarios, but cannot predict the timing and severity of extreme events, which our facilities are most at risk from. We used assumptions on projected increases in insurance premiums from statements made by the insurance industry on the impact of climate change, however, we note that the impact that those projections are based on may not apply to us as they do not take into account the actions we are taking to adapt to and mitigate the impact of environmental changes. We used a number of internal assumptions about production volume increases to 2040 in order to estimate carbon emissions and resource usage, but we recognise that a considerable number of variables, such as domestic growth rates in each of our operating countries, changes in consumer demand and preferences, weather, industry actions and competition and government regulations, may affect those estimates. E1.SBM-3_06 As a result of our resilience analysis, we continued to improve our assessment of the effects of climate change, with a focus on clear targets and robust action plans. This enables us to deliver on our commitments, mitigate risks and take advantage of the opportunities inherent in change. E1.SBM-3_07 We are keenly aware of the importance of delivering on our plans and the potential to adjust our strategy to respond to emerging needs and priorities. We continue to decarbonise our value chain, while updating our net zero transition plan and developing long-term climate scenarios. We are also working towards our bold commitment to achieving a net-positive impact on biodiversity by 2040 in critical areas of our value chain, implementing the guidelines of the Science Based Targets Network, and we shifted our deforestation-free commitment from 2030 to 2025. We continue to expand our partnerships and seek new collaborations, as our ambitious goals and commitments can only be achieved through collective action. With prudent financial risk management, the Group maintains a healthy liquidity position and access to various funding sources. As of 31 December 2024, the Group had €1.6 billion available under €5.0 billion Euro medium term note programme, €0.8 billion available under €1.0 billion Euro-commercial paper programme, undrawn revolving credit facility of €0.8 billion and several bilateral bank loan facilities. None of the Group’s debt facilities are subject to financial covenants that could impact liquidity or access to capital. For further details, refer to Note 25, p.306. Strong treasury governance ensures a consistent supply of committed funding at both central and operational levels, optimising liquidity and funding risk management to secure the most efficient financing solutions. This diversified funding strategy supports both operational and strategic needs, enabling the Group to allocate resources effectively to the net zero transition plan as necessary. Impact, risk and opportunity management E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation E1.MDR-P_01, E1-2_01 Our NetZeroby40 commitment is fully aligned with our philosophy to support the socio- economic development of our communities and to make a more positive environmental impact. In accordance with the Climate Change Policy and our overall Environmental Policy, we will: • strive to reduce all our emissions across the value chain as much as possible by: • advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; • expanding our use of renewable energy technologies; • deploying more energy-efficient coolers in the marketplace; • accelerating our sustainable packaging agenda and our green fleet; • engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change; • working with suppliers to reduce their carbon footprint and to minimise their climate impacts; and • setting roadmaps for emissions reduction for all our operations and the main steps in the value chain. • keep CO2 emission reduction targets as one of the elements of our long-term management incentive plans; • work with other partners (industries, academia, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), governments, etc.) on climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation; • consider all climate risks and opportunities and integrate them in our business strategy; • investigate the opportunities for finding solutions for our residual emissions, such as biological and/or technological removals; • monitor, report and audit our GHG emissions, targets, results and activities, and publish transparently our progress in our public files. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 85 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E3.MDR-T_10, 11 & E3-3_01 We set measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound targets for water stewardship, grounded in the TNFD framework and aligned with the UN SDGs. All of the targets are voluntary. We follow a three-step process to ensure our targets are scientifically sound and relevant. These targets are developed through a structured, inclusive and scientifically sound process. The approach begins with identifying key areas where our operations depend on or impact water resources, with a focus on high-risk geographies identified through comprehensive risk assessments. These water-risk, or water- priority locations face specific challenges such as water scarcity, limited access to water and sanitation services for local communities, and declining water quality within watersheds. Evidence-based evaluations of water-related risks and opportunities guide our actions to ensure they are beneficial to local ecosystems. Lastly, we have initiated our engagement with the SBTN. Notably, SBTN has recently updated its methodology, and as a result, we plan to establish our freshwater targets in alignment with their framework in the next years. Stakeholder engagement is pivotal to this process, particularly through Annual Stakeholder Forums and frequent meetings with local communities, farmers, municipalities, NGOs and primary sugar and sweetener suppliers to address critical environmental topics, including water footprint, water usage, emissions reduction and deforestation. The insights gathered from these engagements, along with the expectations of ESG raters and investors, inform the formulation of ambitious, data-driven targets, such as reducing water usage and replenishing water resources in high-risk locations. Additionally, the Group prioritises initiatives such as water-replenishment activities, nature-based solutions, wetland restorations, and improvements to water quality in these regions. Collaborating closely with stakeholders and local communities, we strive to ensure access to safe, clean water, while addressing water-related challenges through sustainable water management across our operations. E3-4 Water consumption E3-4_01-07, 11 Table 23: Water consumption performance Parameters Unit Performance (2024) Water withdrawal m3 30,894,756 Total water consumption m3 18,239,702 Total water consumption in areas at water risk, including all areas of high-water stress m3 9,415,396 Total water consumption only in areas of high-water stress m3 6,470,879 Total water recycled and reused m3 1,680,670 Total water stored and changes in storage m3 0 Changes in storage m3 0 Water withdrawal is measured using flowmeters installed in any of the water source we use, while water consumption is calculated as the difference between withdrawal and discharged wastewater. Primary data on water extraction, categorised by source, is collected on a monthly basis. Progress towards water usage targets is monitored regularly using specialised software, ensuring accurate and timely tracking of performance. Monthly reviews with the management at local plant, country and Group level are performed to monitor performance and actions. Following the ESRS definition on water risk, we have 29 plants located in areas with certain water risk (lack of clean water and sanitation (WASH) for communities, water quality, reputational risk, high-water stress). Out of them, 20 plants are situated in watersheds with high-water stress as per the latest version of the WRI Aqueduct tool. For example, one of those watersheds is the Asopos River basin in Greece where we implement water replenishment activities in collaboration with the local municipality and NGOs. As per our internal evaluation, considering the local site-specific context, done for our Mission 2025 commitments, 19 of our plants are designated as priority plants, located in areas facing challenges related to basin water quantity, water quality or WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) for communities. E3-4_08, 10 Table 24: Water intensity index Intensities Total water consumption (m3) Net revenue (million EUR) Production (million litres) Performance (2024) Water intensity per net revenue 18,239,702 10,754.4 – 1.696 l/EUR Water intensity per units of production 18,239,702 – 15,974.9 1.142 l/lpb Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 114 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystem SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model E4.SBM-3_05 Through our double materiality assessment, we have identified a material impact within our upstream value chain specifically related to land use change. However, no material impact has been identified in relation to soil degradation, desertification, or soil sealing. E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model E4-1_01 Protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is one of our main sustainability priorities. Our biggest impact on the biodiversity landscape occurs in the upstream segment of our value chain, and it is related to the potential deforestation (land use change) from some agricultural commodities, mostly wood (used for our paper packaging materials). We are committed to eliminate deforestation of our main ingredients by 2025, and it is aligned with the recommendations by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) for companies with Forest, Land and Agricultural Activities (FLAG). Due to FLAG recommendations we have updated our net zero plan as stated in ESRS E1. Also, in our Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), we have requirements related to deforestation, and our target is to achieve 100% sustainable sourcing by 2025. We voluntarily report the sites which are adjacent to legally protected areas, and for all of them we have a confirmed ‘no negative impact’ by an external expert which performs so-called Source Vulnerability Assessment for all the water sources we use in direct operations. In 2022, we published our biodiversity statement where we set a goal to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. The time horizons we use are defined as follows: short-term (2024), medium-term (2025-2030), and long-term (2031-2050). E4-1_02 Environmental risks at supplier level, including deforestation risk, are mitigated through our robust programme at procurement level. We annually review the risks and performance of all our suppliers against our SGPs, PSA principles for agricultural ingredients, Water Risk Assessment, as well as other equally important aspects that impact our business, such as supply risk and financial stability. Overall, it is important to point out that sustainability is one of the key criteria in supplier selection under strategic sourcing, as well as a criterion for the Annual Supplier Review process that we conduct cross-functionally across our supply base. In more detail, to ensure that suppliers demonstrate ESG requirements’ compliance we rely on multiple screening and assessment practices that offer us a holistic view of their performance. This means we collect primary and secondary data that we combine together and analyse to identify priority areas for critical to our operations suppliers. The Sustainable Agriculture programme secures ESG monitoring through PSA certification process of the Coca-Cola System across our main agricultural commodities. For the remaining supply base, we have designed a robust assessment journey leveraging ESG physical audits, as well as a number of globally recognised screening and assessment tools such as EcoVadis IQ Plus, EcoVadis Assessments, SEDEX, WWF Water Risk Filter Assessment, Resilience Event Watch, Exiger and Moody’s Analytics. Additionally, annual Supply Base Assessments are carried out by specialist consultants for Group Critical suppliers. These assessments evaluate Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers on various criteria, including water risk, climate change, forced labour, child labour, labour rights, biodiversity, and financial risk. In case of any risk identified, the supplier is asked to provide an action plan which is monitored regularly. For deforestation, we have a specific project in place where we perform readiness assessment for all our supplier under the requirements of EUDR and we are currently organising our internal process to ensure we are able to assess risks and take necessary actions on an on-going basis from the moment that EUDR is formally introduced as of 1st of January 2026. While EUDR is covering specific Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 115 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued commodities, we are proactively collecting deforestation information from all agricultural ingredients suppliers across all our countries in order to have a holistic view of the exposure and potential risk. By the end of 2025, we will have a programme in place to cover any identified gaps. Last but not least, we are in process of implementing a deforestation tracking platform on top of any other activities already in motion, which will also be ready before the end of 2025. E4-1_03, 04, 05 The Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) has identified five pressures on nature: 1) land/water/sea use change, 2) resource exploitation, 3) climate change, 4) pollution and 5) invasive species. In 2023, we undertook the mapping and materiality assessment on biodiversity across our value chain and we assessed those pressures following the SBTN guideline step 1 and 2. We have collected all our activity data, covering: 1) upstream activities (volumes sourced and origin of raw materials), 2) direct operations (consumption of water and energy of all sites), and 3) downstream (packaging distribution by country). Then we translated the activity data into pressures on nature across five metrics. These pressures on nature were weighted by local nature vulnerability indicators assessing the state of nature in the locations where the activity occurs. Time horizons used in the analysis are as described in E4-1_01. We considered in the assumptions the tighter environmental regulations (e.g., EUDR), carbon pricing policies which would include land conversion activities, deforestation-free commitments from suppliers, and climate risks (e.g., water scarcity, extreme weather events). The result shows that the biggest impact we have is in upstream activities, mainly agricultural suppliers and their impact on land-use change or deforestation. Our procurement strategy to purchase certified raw materials that meet our PSA and our goal of achieving deforestation-free supply chain, support mitigation of the impact and also reduce any potential risk that may occur. E4-1_06 Relevance to stakeholder engagement is described in E4.MDR-T_11. E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-P_01 & E4-2_01, 20 We have adopted policies that address deforestation and sustainable land practices. Our overarching goal for biodiversity is to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Besides, we have set our Environmental Policy, the main objective of which is to minimise the environmental impact of the Group, and the Biodiversity Statement, the objective of which is to enhance biodiversity by reducing emissions and water use, by preserving and reinstating water priority areas, and by sourcing agricultural ingredients sustainably. Moreover, through the Biodiversity Statement, CCHBC is committed to promoting sustainable forest management and helping protect woodlands from deforestation and illegal harvesting. For the monitoring process, please refer to ESRS E1 section, as it constitutes the standard procedure applicable to all relevant topics. Our policies support biodiversity conservation, sustainable land management, and responsible sourcing. We are committed to achieving a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas by 2040 and eliminating deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Thus, our policies address ecosystem protection, sustainable forest management, and mitigation of environmental impacts. We recognise the importance of biodiversity for long-term resilience, as our Natural Capital Impact Study and Source Vulnerability Assessments (SVA) help identify key dependencies and risks, while sustainable sourcing practices mitigate transition risks. We implement traceability mechanisms through certifications, verification schemes, and supplier requirements aligned with The Coca-Cola Company’s Principles for Sustainable Agriculture and EcoVadis assessments. Moreover, our policies prioritise collaboration with NGOs, communities, and industry stakeholders to ensure sustainable supply chains that respect human rights, promote responsible land use, and protect natural ecosystems. E4.MDR-P_02 The policies are applicable across all geographies where Coca-Cola HBC operates. Among the affected stakeholder groups, farmers, other suppliers and local communities associated with the Group’s upstream value chain, are most significantly impacted. E4.MDR-P_03 Policies/statements related to environment (including biodiversity) are approved and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors, and they apply to all Coca-Cola HBC employees, regardless of level and function. E4.MDR-P_04 & E4-2_02 In June 2022, we joined the SBTN Corporate Engagement Program. We will continue working to implement the SBTN’s guidance, in order to map and assess the material impacts on biodiversity of our critical commodities and suppliers and then set science-based targets in priority areas. E4.MDR-P_05 We engage with a broad range of stakeholder groups for biodiversity, including our communities, governments, NGOs, investors and suppliers, taking into account their recommendations in the process of setting biodiversity-related policy. For more information, please refer to E1 section. E4.MDR-P_06 The Environmental Policy and the Biodiversity Statement are publicly available at our site (Policies | Coca-Cola HBC), which affected stakeholders can easily access. E4-2_03 The critical areas in our supply chain are defined based on the material dependencies that we have in relation to biodiversity, for example the provision of water, agricultural raw materials and wood. E4-2_04 We started mapping all our operations and critical commodities/suppliers. For our sustainability assessment, we use the risk-based approach with the support of our partners (EcoVadis). Transparency and traceability of material supply chains is established through certifications/ verification schemes or by ensuring suppliers have robust traceability of supply that meets our expectations (please see ‘Supplier Engagement, Verification and Assurance’ from TCCC Principles for Sustainable Agriculture). Also, we regularly measure and report on the progress made against our Mission 2025 commitments, and all other commitments, including those related to biodiversity and deforestation. The annual performance is disclosed in our Annual Report and the GRI Content Index, verified by an independent auditor, and published on our website. E4-2_05, 06, 07, 18 We are committed to sourcing 100% of our key ingredients in line with the Principles for Sustainable Agriculture as set out by TCCC. These principles protect and support biodiversity and ecosystems, uphold human and workplace rights, ensure animal health and welfare, and help build thriving communities. They apply to primary production, i.e., at farm level, and form the basis for our continued engagement with Tier 1 suppliers to ensure sustainable long-term supply at a lower environmental impact. This extends in particular to the sections Conservation of Forests, Conservation of Natural Habitats, Biodiversity and Ecosystems, Soil Management and Agrochemical Management. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 116 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Metrics and targets E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-A_01, 02, 05 & E4-3_01 Table 25: List of key actions and resources in relation to biodiversity Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Application of mitigation hierarchy Quantitative and qualitative information Biodiversity impact and risk assessment Yes Yes, it continues in 2025 Identify CCH’s most material impacts on nature and where they occur in the value chain Prioritise a shortlist of key contributors by location for target setting Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Use of the SBTN methodology. Assessment of the three steps of the value chain. Set targets for water replenishment. Entire value chain Global Suppliers, NGOs, communities, own employees, regulators Avoidance Completed step 1 and 2 of the SBTN methodology Collaborate with suppliers to develop plans to address land conversion risks and develop an appropriate monitoring system to measure deforestation at supplier level Yes Yes, it continues in 2025- 2026 The amount and % of our main commodities which are deforestation-free Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025 Continue collaboration with main agricultural suppliers; cross-functional work for assuring compliance with the EU DR Upstream Global Suppliers, NGOs, regulators Avoidance, Minimisation Meetings with main sugar suppliers performed in 2024; meetings with software provider for geo-satellite monitoring and deforestation monitoring done Biodiversity action near our Tylicz plant in Poland Yes Yes, it continues in the next three years Minimise negative impact and enhance river’s biodiversity Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Fish stocking of the Muszynka River near our Tylicz plant in Poland; two clean-up activities near plant and on riverbanks Own operations, downstream Poland Nature, communities, local municipality Reducing, restoring 3,000 common trout released in three river locations; 400kg waste collected Issue Biodiversity Whitepaper Yes 2025 Publish CSR Europe Alliance Biodiversity Whitepaper Build awareness and collaborate with industries and other stakeholders Work with other industry players from CSR Europe, NGOs and other partners to publish ‘How companies in Europe address biodiversity: Learning from disclosure’ Whitepaper Downstream Europe Other industry players, NGOs, regulators Transform Whitepaper published in February 2025 At this stage, we have not utilised biodiversity offsets or incorporated specific indigenous knowledge into our actions. Our approach is grounded in best practices, scientific knowledge and in the collaboration with our suppliers. For water stewardship projects that also impact biodiversity, please see ‘Table 21: List of actions in relation to water management’ on page 106. E4.MDR-A_03 Our biodiversity journey started in 2022. Our actions are work in progress as we follow the SBTN guidelines, and they are also in dynamic development phase. Our water replenishment activities will continue at least until 2030. Deforestation actions will continue beyond 2025. E4.MDR-A_04 Every site adjacent to legally protected areas has Source Vulnerability Assessment, which shows no negative impact on biodiversity. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 117 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E4.MDR-T_01-07, 09, 13 & E4-4_06, 07, 09 E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems While the action plan described above is essential to our sustainability strategy, there are no significant Capex or Opex to disclose for the related initiatives. Our Group’s treasury strategy ensures the availability of financial resources to support related initiatives. By leveraging a diversified range of financing mechanisms, we can effectively address both current and future priorities.E4.MDR-T_01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 09, 13 & E4-4_06, 07, 09 Table 26: List of targets’ progress Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline Target to be achieved 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Geographical scope Description of target Mitigation hierarchy Relation of target to identified material impacts Planning to achieve the target Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain Absolute 2025 2020 (cut-off year) 100% Sugar/juices are 96% (certified) Regulation on Deforestation-free Products (EU DR). Global Biodiversity Framework’s ‘30x30’ conservation target. Main commodities (sugar/juices), and critical for biodiversity ones, global scope Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain Avoidance, minimisation, restoration Land use ecosystem change 100% certification for sugar/juices in 2025; In the EU we focus on full EU DR compliance (coffee and paper/wood) in 2025 100% sustainable sourcing Absolute 2025 2017 100% 96% (excluding Multon Partners Juices) FAO Good Agricultural Practices; ILO Main commodities we use, global scope Achieve 100% adherence to the PSA in main agricultural commodities Avoidance, minimisation, restoration and rehabilitation, compensation or offsets Land use ecosystem change In 2024, we have 100% sustainable sourcing for our main agricultural ingredients in Europe. Plan to achieve 100% in Africa in 2025. No assumptions are used to define targets. We have considered the critical areas and commodities based on the risk assessment. We took into consideration the best global practices and guidelines such as the SBTN, FAO Good Agricultural Practices, ILO and EU regulations. Targets are monitored quarterly by obtaining information from suppliers for their sustainable certifications. The amount of procured quantity of raw materials certified is divided by the total procured volume for the raw materials in scope. Current status is as per the initial plans. Targets are set for the upstream part of the value chain due to the biggest impact there. E4.MDR-T_10 & E4-4_05 The targets set are in line with the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework and its mission to halt and reverse biodiversity loss to put nature on a path to recovery, and they are aligned with EU 2030 Biodiversity Strategy, where the goal for protecting 30% of land in the EU is stated as well as with the EU Regulation on Deforestation-free Products (EU DR). E4.MDR-T_11 Stakeholder engagement plays a pivotal role in this process, particularly through our Annual Stakeholder Forums, where key discussions take place, and the insights gathered are integrated into the formulation of our targets. Also, during the supplier sustainability events we organise regularly, we discuss different ESG aspects, including biodiversity and deforestation. Additionally, the Group takes into account the requirements of ESG raters, including those of our investors, ensuring that our targets are aligned with their evolving expectations. Moreover, we have conducted several meetings with our main sugar and sweeteners suppliers where we discussed environmental topics, among them the deforestation issue. E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change E4-5_04 Our operations are primarily based in cities, so we do not have a direct impact on biodiversity and ecosystem change. The impact is linked to Tier 2 and 3 suppliers in the upstream part of the value chain, specifically concerning agricultural ingredients and primarily paper/ wooden materials. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 118 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E1 – Climate change Strategy E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation E1-1_01,02,03,05,06,12,13,14,15, E1.MDR-A_06,07,09,10,11,12 & E1-3_05,06, E1-4_23 Our focus on clear targets and robust action plans around climate change is evident in our climate transition plan. We have committed to our NetZeroby40 journey since 2021, and the healthy liquidity position of the Group ensures proper funding of relevant initiatives every year. Our climate transition plan, first developed in 2021, covers the full value chain (scope 1, 2 and 3) and it is as per the 1.5 degree scenario, approved by the SBTi. Developed by a cross-functional team of experts, the plan was approved by the ELT (through Sustainability SteerCo) and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the BoD. Coca-Cola HBC considers five main levers and those are the main actions for each lever: 1. Manufacturing (includes scope 1 fuels used, scope 1 losses of CO2 used for beverage carbonation, scope 2 electricity/heat/steam/ hot water purchased) • Continue implementing and accelerating the energy-efficient projects in our plants (deployment of energy saving projects, old equipment modernization, and installation of heat pumps & electrification). • Improving the CO2 yield in the plants. • Accelerating usage of renewable and/ or cleaner energy to replace fossil fuel in scope 1 or electricity/heat/steam/ hot water in scope 2. 2. Transportation (includes scope 1 fuels used for own transport, both light and heavy, and scope 3 fuels used for outsourced logistics and transportation) • Optimising the routes of light and heavy fleet, increasing logistics efficiency and increasing heavy trucks utilization. • Shifting the existing fleet to innovative technologies and renewable or alternative fuels. • Enhancing the strategic partnerships with our third-party logistics providers and joint investments (accelerate shifting to alternative fuels, route to market evolution, shifting of more volume to trains and applying industry innovations). 3. Packaging (includes scope 3 from all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging used for our products) • Implementing our Packaging Mix of the Future strategy (increasing recycled PET, moving from non-reusable one-way glass bottles to reusable glass bottles and providing more packageless solutions). • Implementing decarbonisation of our primary and secondary packaging materials (aluminium cans, PET bottles, glass bottles, plastic labels, closures, stretch films etc.). 4. Ingredients (includes scope 3 from all ingredients used for manufacturing of our beverages) • Decarbonisation initiatives with our suppliers (engagement of farmers through co- development of farming pilots with suppliers, using regenerative agricultural practices). • Continue reformulation of our products and moving to more lights and zero products in our beverage portfolio. 5. Drink Equipment (includes scope 3 of electricity used by our customers for the drink equipment we provide, scope 1 for refrigerant losses from cold drink equipment) • Accelerate the process of providing energy efficient drink equipment to our customers and finding innovative solutions for further energy efficiency of our drink equipment. • Greening the electricity grid mainly in Europe and with slower pace in Africa. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 83 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued For more details on emissions reduction per lever, please see Table 9: Mitigation actions per decarbonisation lever. Coca-Cola HBC is not excluded from the EU Paris-aligned benchmarks. NetZeroby40 roadmap is presented in the Strategic Report, section ‘Earn our Licence to operate’ on page 25. In 2024, we invested €200 million of capital expenditure (Capex) on projects supporting the implementation of our climate transition plan, representing 29.4% of total Capex. We also invested €30 million driven by the higher cost of recycled PET compared to virgin PET, as we pursue our strategic objective to reach 35% rPET by 2025, positively influencing both the reduction of our scope 3 emissions and the transition to a circular economy. Our accounting system does not separately classify sustainability-related investments or costs, as both are reported in accordance with the general financial reporting principles. For Capex, however, we apply an internal process to identify expenditures fully aligned with the levers of the transition plan. This allows us to track and monitor investments that directly support our commitment to emissions’ reduction but does not necessarily consider larger investments that have multiple objectives, even when sustainability is one of them. The Capex and cost of packaging materials mentioned above are reflected in our financial statements, as part of the overall amounts reported in the cash flow statement and the income statement, reinforcing our climate change mitigation actions. In 2025, we plan to follow a similar approach, investing 30% of total Capex on projects supporting the implementation of our climate transition plan. We also expect that the higher spend for recycled PET compared to virgin PET will increase further in 2025 to approximately €60 million, as we accelerate our performance against our Mission 2025 target but also due to the EU requirement for a 25% minimum recycled content on PET beverage bottles. In the medium term, for the period 2026-2030, Capex investments that support our transition plan will gradually increase to reach 37% of Capex in 2030. Main drivers are the acceleration of investments to improve energy efficiency of our manufacturing plants and using more renewable fuel alternatives, the switch to coolers with even better energy profile and the increase in the contribution of returnable glass bottles to our package portfolio. As far as investments in Opex/ Cogs are concerned, we expect that they will also gradually increase, as we will use more packaging materials with recycled content and purchase more ingredients that are sustainably sourced. For the period after 2030, we expect to continue on the 2025-2030 trajectory of investments, both Capex and Opex/Cogs to support the faster reduction of emissions so that we can meet our NetZeroby40 commitment. Given the fast-paced nature of our business, being a consumer goods company, the rapid technological advancements, and the uncertainty in the regulatory environment, an attempt to assign investment amounts per decarbonisation action could result in misleading information. Hence, we maintain the approach we have followed in the past few years and report the percentage of total Capex that is related to projects that support the implementation of our transition plan. Our sustainable finance approach underpins the Group’s ability to align funding strategies with sustainability commitments, while supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals and EU Environmental Objectives. Financing mechanisms include a diverse range of instruments, ensuring flexibility in meeting both current and future financial requirements for action plans. The Group’s €500 million green bond, issued in September 2022 under the Green Finance Framework, was fully allocated to eligible projects by September 2023, as detailed in our Green Finance Report. Our sustainability-linked revolving credit facility of €800 million remains available until April 2026, although not specifically earmarked for funding the transition plan. These initiatives complement the Group’s broader access to diversified financial resources. Further details on financial instruments and resource allocation are available in Note 25, p.306. E1-1_07 By 2030, the only assets from scope 1 and 2 in manufacturing that could potentially lead to significant locked-in GHG emissions are the CHP plants outside Europe and boilers used in manufacturing facilities, as they will still operate with fossil fuels (natural gas mainly), and it will be difficult to switch to alternative or renewable fuels. We will run an innovation project in two of the manufacturing sites to use biomass for the boilers and based on the results we are planning to implement across all plants by 2040. In logistics, we will have around 2,000 own trucks (scope 1) by 2030 using fossil fuel. In light fleet, which is leased and changed every four years, we don’t expect significant locked-in emissions. As per our NetZeroby40 commitment, by 2050 we will not have main assets with significant locked-in emissions: CHP in operations will be either decommissioned or replaced by renewable fuel, and boilers’ fuel will be replaced by alternative systems. By 2050, we don’t expect any of our own trucks to run on fossil fuel. Cumulatively, by 2030 those locked-in emissions would be around 256,000 tonnes of CO2e or 6.9% of our scope 1, 2, 3 emissions. Those locked-in emissions are not likely to affect our NetZeroby40 commitment, as they will be effectively managed and minimised before 2040 as shared above. As we sell beverages, we don’t expect significant locked-in emissions in scope 3 category ‘Use of sold products’, neither by 2030 nor by 2040 or 2050. ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model E1.SBM-3_01,05 Climate change – caused by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, emitted from every business and activity – is leading to global temperature increase and extreme weather conditions around the world. Global warming impacts environment and society across our entire value chain: from suppliers, to customers and consumers. Managing our carbon footprint is our major transition risk related to climate change in the mid and long term, as emerged from the 2024 Double Materiality Assessment. The time horizons applied in the analysis and their business scenarios alignment are: • Short-term horizon: 2025 Annual business planning cycle which includes consideration of short-term risks and opportunities that affect annual performance objectives. • Medium-term horizon: 2030 Long-range planning that includes consideration of risks and opportunities that may affect medium-term objectives, financial viability assurance and allocation of capital for medium-term investments. • Long-term horizon: >2030 Long-term strategic planning including capital investments, mergers and acquisitions, impact of climate change, including meeting our NetZeroby40 commitments. Further details on the DMA process can be found in the ‘Materiality’ section of the IAR on pages 37 to 40 and on page 59 of this document. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 84 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1.SBM-3_02 We have a thoroughly designed Business Resilience programme that enables us to proactively manage risks – and embrace opportunities – so that we grow sustainably and meet our short-, medium- and long-term objectives. One of the most significant risks to our resilience over the longer term is climate change. By proactively preparing for and managing climate risk through our business strategy and capital investments, however, we can harness significant opportunities. E1.SBM-3_03,04 In our resilience analysis conducted in 2024, we used a variety of climate scenarios in our assessment of the potential impact of climate change on our business, including: RCP1.9, in order to be consistent with our Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) commitment and as representation of a best-case scenario from a climate action point of view; RCP4.5, as it represents the stated policy position and provides a midpoint scenario, and; RCP8.5, as the ‘worst- case’ or ‘extreme’ scenario, particularly for physical risks. This enabled us to consider a broad range of drivers and their impact. In considering the cost of carbon emissions, the more ambitious scenarios assume a greater amount of government use of regulation, taxes and levies and hence the higher costs of carbon. However, we also assumed that government intervention would not be consistent across all our markets given our diverse operating territories, and therefore countries were grouped into leaders, followers and laggards in evaluating potential increases in taxes and levies. As around 90% of our carbon emissions are scope 3, we are dependent on suppliers and customers reducing their carbon emissions. In estimating the reduction in overall carbon emissions and our ability to meet our NetZeroby40 targets, we used NGFS data to estimate industry decarbonisation rates which are assumptions built into our internal plans for meeting our NetZeroby40 target. Included in our assessment of the impact of climate change on our production and distribution, we used external data used by the insurance industry which we consider to be robust. However, we note that climate-related data can project general changes under different climate scenarios, but cannot predict the timing and severity of extreme events, which our facilities are most at risk from. We used assumptions on projected increases in insurance premiums from statements made by the insurance industry on the impact of climate change, however, we note that the impact that those projections are based on may not apply to us as they do not take into account the actions we are taking to adapt to and mitigate the impact of environmental changes. We used a number of internal assumptions about production volume increases to 2040 in order to estimate carbon emissions and resource usage, but we recognise that a considerable number of variables, such as domestic growth rates in each of our operating countries, changes in consumer demand and preferences, weather, industry actions and competition and government regulations, may affect those estimates. E1.SBM-3_06 As a result of our resilience analysis, we continued to improve our assessment of the effects of climate change, with a focus on clear targets and robust action plans. This enables us to deliver on our commitments, mitigate risks and take advantage of the opportunities inherent in change. E1.SBM-3_07 We are keenly aware of the importance of delivering on our plans and the potential to adjust our strategy to respond to emerging needs and priorities. We continue to decarbonise our value chain, while updating our net zero transition plan and developing long-term climate scenarios. We are also working towards our bold commitment to achieving a net-positive impact on biodiversity by 2040 in critical areas of our value chain, implementing the guidelines of the Science Based Targets Network, and we shifted our deforestation-free commitment from 2030 to 2025. We continue to expand our partnerships and seek new collaborations, as our ambitious goals and commitments can only be achieved through collective action. With prudent financial risk management, the Group maintains a healthy liquidity position and access to various funding sources. As of 31 December 2024, the Group had €1.6 billion available under €5.0 billion Euro medium term note programme, €0.8 billion available under €1.0 billion Euro-commercial paper programme, undrawn revolving credit facility of €0.8 billion and several bilateral bank loan facilities. None of the Group’s debt facilities are subject to financial covenants that could impact liquidity or access to capital. For further details, refer to Note 25, p.306. Strong treasury governance ensures a consistent supply of committed funding at both central and operational levels, optimising liquidity and funding risk management to secure the most efficient financing solutions. This diversified funding strategy supports both operational and strategic needs, enabling the Group to allocate resources effectively to the net zero transition plan as necessary. Impact, risk and opportunity management E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation E1.MDR-P_01, E1-2_01 Our NetZeroby40 commitment is fully aligned with our philosophy to support the socio- economic development of our communities and to make a more positive environmental impact. In accordance with the Climate Change Policy and our overall Environmental Policy, we will: • strive to reduce all our emissions across the value chain as much as possible by: • advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; • expanding our use of renewable energy technologies; • deploying more energy-efficient coolers in the marketplace; • accelerating our sustainable packaging agenda and our green fleet; • engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change; • working with suppliers to reduce their carbon footprint and to minimise their climate impacts; and • setting roadmaps for emissions reduction for all our operations and the main steps in the value chain. • keep CO2 emission reduction targets as one of the elements of our long-term management incentive plans; • work with other partners (industries, academia, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), governments, etc.) on climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation; • consider all climate risks and opportunities and integrate them in our business strategy; • investigate the opportunities for finding solutions for our residual emissions, such as biological and/or technological removals; • monitor, report and audit our GHG emissions, targets, results and activities, and publish transparently our progress in our public files. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 85 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1.MDR-P_01,02 More specifically, our climate change commitments and our climate change policy cover our entire Company, all scopes 1, 2 and 3, and all three value chain segments (i.e., upstream, own operations, downstream). We aim to reach net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040 as per the 1.5 degree scenario, and our intermediate emission reduction target by 2030 is approved by the SBTi. There is no greater threat to our collective future than climate change, and we believe that industry has a key role to play in finding sustainable solutions to today’s climate challenges. We were one of the first companies to commit to and deliver science-based carbon reduction targets (SBTs) back in 2016, immediately after the UN COP21 in Paris and, after reaching those first SBTs, we published our NetZeroby40 commitment across the entire value chain. Moreover, in our Environmental Policy, we also cover: production operations and business facilities; products and services; distribution and logistics; environmental due-diligence in each step of the value chain, including mergers and acquisitions, divestments and investments; management of waste; suppliers, service providers and contractors; and other key business partners (including co-packers, joint ventures, etc.). The monitoring process for our policies’ objectives – including the assessment of associated impacts, risks and opportunities – is dynamic and rigorously conducted through our Sustainability Committees and the DMA procedure. E1.MDR-P_02,05 Our engagement strategy also focuses on gaining insights from the different types of relevant stakeholders that influence our policies, which are indicatively the following: • We engage with different stakeholders, such as NGOs, suppliers, peer companies, regulators, investors, academia, communities, etc., through our Group Annual Stakeholder Forums and our annual materiality assessment, as well as through ad hoc meetings. • We participate actively to support the set- up and implementation of new packaging collection schemes at local business unit- level by engaging with peer companies, municipalities, regulators, customers, etc. • We partner with specific NGOs for targeted environmental and social projects. • We have regular calls with investors and financial institutions. • We proactively monitor different environmental, social and governance (ESG) raters/frameworks in order to understand and adapt to the external emerging trends and expectations. • We are part of UNESDA, the Brussels-based trade association representing the non- alcoholic beverages sector. • We engage with academia, suppliers and start-ups for innovative solutions to tackle the ESG challenges. • We engage with our customers through different value creation activities in sustainability. • We engage with our employees through regular meetings, surveys, ‘Tone of the Top’ messages, awareness campaigns, townhall meetings, etc. • Our local business units actively engage with the local stakeholders. E1.MDR-P_04 Through our Environmental Policy, we are committed to implement environmental management systems, such as ISO 14001. Moreover, through our Climate Change Policy, we are committed to be aligned with SBTi for our targets. E1.MDR-P_03,06 All policies are publicly available at our website (Policies | Coca-Cola HBC) where affected stakeholders can easily have access to them. Moreover, the net zero transition plan is publicly available on our website. The CEO is overall responsible for the implementation of our sustainability policies. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 86 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies E1.MDR-A_01,02,03 We have in place a number of existing and planned actions in order to deliver our climate change policies and achieve our targets and commitments, as presented in the following table. Table 8: Key actions (existing and planned) in relation to climate change policies Time horizon Scope of Action List of actions Current Planned Expected outcome Relation to policy objectives/ targets (where relevant) Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Top 20 energy savers programme Yes Continuous Scope 1 carbon emissions reduction and cost savings In accordance with the Climate Change Policy and our overall Environmental Policy, we strive to reduce all our emissions across the value chain as much as possible by advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations. Reduction of energy consumption by improving efficiency of main energy consumers such as high- pressure compressors, boilers, bottle blowing processes and introducing heat pumps Own operations All markets Employees, Suppliers Increase of renewable energy consumption through the installation of solar PV Yes Continuous Scope 1 & 2 (market-based) emissions savings and climate resilience Expanding our use of renewable energy technologies Current installations of roof-top PVs owned by Coca-Cola HBC and also owned by third-party providers Own operations Egypt, Nigeria, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Czech Republic, Greece, Romania, Croatia Employees, Suppliers CO2 Yield improvement Yes Continuous Scope 1 carbon emissions reduction Advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations CO2 yield improvement by replacing sterile air and nitrogen Own operations All markets Employees, Suppliers Heat pumps and electrification of energy Yes Continuous Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions reduction Advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; Expanding our use of renewable energy technologies Energy recovery from existing manufacturing processes and thermal energy electrification Own operations EU countries Employees, Suppliers Alternative and low-carbon fuels introduction Continuous Scope 1 carbon emissions reduction Advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; Expanding our use of renewable energy technologies Introduction of biomass, biogas and other developing solutions Own operations N. Ireland, Austria, Italy, Greece Employees Modernisation of manufacturing equipment Continuous Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions reduction Advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; Expanding the use of renewable energy technologies Replacement of depreciated own production lines and installation of new ones with high energy efficiency Own operations Selective markets as per transition plan Employees, Suppliers Green Fleet Programme Yes Continuous Scope 1 carbon emissions reduction Accelerating our green fleet Increase the number of electric and hybrid fleet (own and leased fleet) Own operations EU countries Employees, Suppliers Low carbon alternative fleet introduction of transportation solutions Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Working with suppliers to reduce their carbon footprint and to minimise their climate impacts; Expanding our use of renewable energy technologies. Distribution fleet electrification in Austria, Switzerland and low carbon fuel (HVO) in Italy Upstream Austria, Switzerland, Italy Third party logistics providers, Customers Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 87 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1.MDR-P_01,02 More specifically, our climate change commitments and our climate change policy cover our entire Company, all scopes 1, 2 and 3, and all three value chain segments (i.e., upstream, own operations, downstream). We aim to reach net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040 as per the 1.5 degree scenario, and our intermediate emission reduction target by 2030 is approved by the SBTi. There is no greater threat to our collective future than climate change, and we believe that industry has a key role to play in finding sustainable solutions to today’s climate challenges. We were one of the first companies to commit to and deliver science-based carbon reduction targets (SBTs) back in 2016, immediately after the UN COP21 in Paris and, after reaching those first SBTs, we published our NetZeroby40 commitment across the entire value chain. Moreover, in our Environmental Policy, we also cover: production operations and business facilities; products and services; distribution and logistics; environmental due-diligence in each step of the value chain, including mergers and acquisitions, divestments and investments; management of waste; suppliers, service providers and contractors; and other key business partners (including co-packers, joint ventures, etc.). The monitoring process for our policies’ objectives – including the assessment of associated impacts, risks and opportunities – is dynamic and rigorously conducted through our Sustainability Committees and the DMA procedure. E1.MDR-P_02,05 Our engagement strategy also focuses on gaining insights from the different types of relevant stakeholders that influence our policies, which are indicatively the following: • We engage with different stakeholders, such as NGOs, suppliers, peer companies, regulators, investors, academia, communities, etc., through our Group Annual Stakeholder Forums and our annual materiality assessment, as well as through ad hoc meetings. • We participate actively to support the set- up and implementation of new packaging collection schemes at local business unit- level by engaging with peer companies, municipalities, regulators, customers, etc. • We partner with specific NGOs for targeted environmental and social projects. • We have regular calls with investors and financial institutions. • We proactively monitor different environmental, social and governance (ESG) raters/frameworks in order to understand and adapt to the external emerging trends and expectations. • We are part of UNESDA, the Brussels-based trade association representing the non- alcoholic beverages sector. • We engage with academia, suppliers and start-ups for innovative solutions to tackle the ESG challenges. • We engage with our customers through different value creation activities in sustainability. • We engage with our employees through regular meetings, surveys, ‘Tone of the Top’ messages, awareness campaigns, townhall meetings, etc. • Our local business units actively engage with the local stakeholders. E1.MDR-P_04 Through our Environmental Policy, we are committed to implement environmental management systems, such as ISO 14001. Moreover, through our Climate Change Policy, we are committed to be aligned with SBTi for our targets. E1.MDR-P_03,06 All policies are publicly available at our website (Policies | Coca-Cola HBC) where affected stakeholders can easily have access to them. Moreover, the net zero transition plan is publicly available on our website. The CEO is overall responsible for the implementation of our sustainability policies. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 86 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies E1.MDR-A_01,02,03 We have in place a number of existing and planned actions in order to deliver our climate change policies and achieve our targets and commitments, as presented in the following table. Table 8: Key actions (existing and planned) in relation to climate change policies Time horizon Scope of Action List of actions Current Planned Expected outcome Relation to policy objectives/ targets (where relevant) Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Top 20 energy savers programme Yes Continuous Scope 1 carbon emissions reduction and cost savings In accordance with the Climate Change Policy and our overall Environmental Policy, we strive to reduce all our emissions across the value chain as much as possible by advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations. Reduction of energy consumption by improving efficiency of main energy consumers such as high- pressure compressors, boilers, bottle blowing processes and introducing heat pumps Own operations All markets Employees, Suppliers Increase of renewable energy consumption through the installation of solar PV Yes Continuous Scope 1 & 2 (market-based) emissions savings and climate resilience Expanding our use of renewable energy technologies Current installations of roof-top PVs owned by Coca-Cola HBC and also owned by third-party providers Own operations Egypt, Nigeria, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Czech Republic, Greece, Romania, Croatia Employees, Suppliers CO2 Yield improvement Yes Continuous Scope 1 carbon emissions reduction Advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations CO2 yield improvement by replacing sterile air and nitrogen Own operations All markets Employees, Suppliers Heat pumps and electrification of energy Yes Continuous Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions reduction Advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; Expanding our use of renewable energy technologies Energy recovery from existing manufacturing processes and thermal energy electrification Own operations EU countries Employees, Suppliers Alternative and low-carbon fuels introduction Continuous Scope 1 carbon emissions reduction Advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; Expanding our use of renewable energy technologies Introduction of biomass, biogas and other developing solutions Own operations N. Ireland, Austria, Italy, Greece Employees Modernisation of manufacturing equipment Continuous Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions reduction Advancing the reduction of the energy used in our operations; Expanding the use of renewable energy technologies Replacement of depreciated own production lines and installation of new ones with high energy efficiency Own operations Selective markets as per transition plan Employees, Suppliers Green Fleet Programme Yes Continuous Scope 1 carbon emissions reduction Accelerating our green fleet Increase the number of electric and hybrid fleet (own and leased fleet) Own operations EU countries Employees, Suppliers Low carbon alternative fleet introduction of transportation solutions Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Working with suppliers to reduce their carbon footprint and to minimise their climate impacts; Expanding our use of renewable energy technologies. Distribution fleet electrification in Austria, Switzerland and low carbon fuel (HVO) in Italy Upstream Austria, Switzerland, Italy Third party logistics providers, Customers Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 87 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time horizon Scope of Action List of actions Current Planned Expected outcome Relation to policy objectives/ targets (where relevant) Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Increase the number of energy-efficient coolers in the marketplace Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Deploying more energy-efficient coolers at the marketplace; Engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change Continue purchasing energy efficient new coolers from our suppliers and replacing old coolers with energy-efficient ones Downstream All markets Customers, Suppliers For packaging initiatives contributing to scope 3, please refer to ESRS E5 on pages 121 to 124 Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Accelerating our packaging and packaging waste agenda; Engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change Using more recycled content and reusable/refillable packaging solutions, decarbonisation at supplier level; all initiatives for packaging collection that increase % collected and recovered packaging Downstream All markets Customers, Consumers, Suppliers Use of ISO standard for commodities and supplier specific LCA development for key direct supplies of raw and packaging materials Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Working with suppliers to reduce their carbon footprint and to minimise their climate impacts Using supplier-specific emission factors,providing guiding suppliers to work on decarbonisation plans and renewable energy, providing supplier Carbon emission development programme (Supplier Leadership on Climate – SLoC). Upstream Global Suppliers E1.MDR-A_04 As per UNESDA statement “Beverage sector acknowledges its responsibility in playing its part in the fight against climate change and we are committed to help the European Union become a climate neutral continent by 2050 by driving decarbonisation throughout our value chain – from responsible sourcing of our ingredients to production and distribution of the final products. We know our competitiveness and long-term success depend on the sustainability of our operations and the resilience of our value chain”. We have not identified direct harm to any stakeholders’ group from our actual impact. All actions we take are towards decarbonisation by following the applicable regulatory, industry and international standards. E1.MDR-A_05 In 2024, we made progress on our climate-related actions and plans and for the fourth consecutive year we reached our annual roadmap: • continued our decarbonisation journey in all five levers in alignment with our NetZeroby40 roadmap; • focused on packaging decarbonisation using a higher percentage of recycled materials and improving percentage packaging collection; • supported further roll-out of Deposit Return Schemes in our EU markets; • promoted Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) policies and the launch of new packaging collection systems in priority markets; • cooperated with eight other industry players and three organisations to publish CSR Europe Biodiversity Alliance White Paper “How Companies in Europe Address Biodiversity’; • expanded our partnerships in water and waste reduction. In 2021, we committed to achieve net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040. This is our most ambitious, complex and forward-looking commitment. We were among the first companies to adopt science-based reduction targets. In our existing net zero roadmap, our starting point is 2017, the baseline for our science-based targets. We have reduced our absolute total value chain emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 31% (excluding Egypt) from 2010 to the end of 2024, our absolute value chain reduction in 2024 versus 2017 is 18% (excluding Egypt). These results come from our sustained investment and focus, and highlight our consistent approach to decarbonisation. Reducing carbon emissions is the non-negotiable goal for our business. We continued to work across our value chain to reduce emissions, with a particular focus on energy efficiency and renewal, packaging, coolers and ingredients. We do this because we will make the biggest progress by delivering sustainable solutions in these parts of our value chain. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 88 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued In 2024, we updated our net zero roadmap with three important changes. We integrated our Egyptian operations into our 2030 and NetZeroby40 climate targets, we added new Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) targets, and we updated our mid-term emissions goal to follow the Well-Below-2-Degrees (WB2D) pathway until 2030 and then the 1.5 degrees pathway until 2040. Due to the FLAG targets requirements, we are moving our baseline year for the mid-term 2030 emissions reduction targets from 2017 to 2019. With all those changes, our NetZeroby40 target was formally validated by the SBTi. As the validation came in December 2024, in 2025 we will work to update the roadmap with all those changes and communicate transparently on our website. E1-3_01,03,04 Table 9: Mitigation actions per decarbonisation lever (action, GHG reductions) The actions per lever consider our updated net zero roadmap as approved by the SBTi in late December 2024. It includes Egypt acquisition, scope 3 accelerated climate scenario (well below 2 degree Celsius), and a new baseline year of 2019 (instead of 2017) as per the SBTi Net Zero guideline and the SBTi requirements for FLAG emissions, where 2017 cannot be used as a baseline year. We are going to perform carbon boundary review and recalculation of our emissions to include FLAG factors in 2025 and will update the roadmap accordingly. GHG emissions reduction Achieved (2024 vs. 2019) tCO2e Expected (2030 vs. 2019) tCO2e Time horizon for completing the action Year Relevant target (link to E1-4) Manufacturing (includes scope 1 fuels used, scope 1 losses of CO2 used for beverage carbonation, scope 2 electricity/heat/steam/hot water purchased, scope 3 CO2 in product (carbonation) and scope 3 CO2 produced in CHPs): • continue implementing and accelerating the energy-efficient projects in our plants (deployment of energy-saving projects, old equipment modernisation, and installation of heat pumps and electrification); • improving the CO2 yield in the plants; • accelerating usage of renewable and/or cleaner energy to replace fossil fuel in scope 1 or electricity/heat/steam/hot water in scope 2. +1kt +0.2% -198kt -46% 2030 Scope 1 and 2 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the 1.5 degree climate scenario (SBT) Transportation (includes scope 1 fuels used for own transport, both light and heavy, and scope 3 fuels used for outsourced logistics and transportation): • optimising the routes of light and heavy fleet, increasing logistics efficiency and increasing heavy trucks utilization; • shifting the existing fleet to innovative technologies and renewable or alternative fuels; • enhancing the strategic partnerships with our third-party logistics providers and joint investments (accelerate shifting to alternative fuels, route to market evolution, shifting of more volume to trains and applying industry innovations). +6kt +2% -8kt -3% 2030 Scope 1 and 2 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the 1.5 degree climate scenario (SBT); Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Packaging (includes scope 3 from all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging used for our products): • implementing our Pack Mix of the Future strategy (increasing recycled PET, moving from non-reusable one-way glass bottles to reusable glass bottles and providing more packageless solutions); • implementing decarbonisation of our primary and secondary packaging materials (aluminium cans, PET bottles, glass bottles, plastic labels, closures, stretch films, etc.). +271kt +21% -309kt -21% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Ingredients (includes scope 3 from all ingredients used for manufacturing of our beverages): • decarbonisation initiatives with our suppliers (engagement of farmers through co-development of farming pilots with suppliers, using regenerative agricultural practices); • continue reformulation of our products and moving to more lights and zero products in our beverage portfolio. +135kt +10% -243kt -17% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Drink equipment (includes scope 3 of electricity used by our customers for the drink equipment we provide, scope 1 for refrigerants’ losses from cold drink equipment): • accelerate the process of providing energy-efficient drink equipment to our customers and finding innovative solutions for further energy efficiency of our drink equipment; • greening the electricity grid mainly in Europe and with slower pace in Africa. -500kt -38% -929kt -63% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 89 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-3_07,08, E1-1_04,06,08 As detailed in the EU Taxonomy section of this sustainability statement, our core economic activity is not yet included in the published Delegated Acts and is therefore not considered Taxonomy-eligible at this stage. However, we have assessed secondary activities that contribute to climate change mitigation. In 2024, 0.67% of total Capex was Taxonomy-aligned, also driven by activities connected to our climate transition plan. Specifically, CCM4.25 ‘Production of heat/cool using waste heat’ , CCM7.4 ‘Installation, maintenance, and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings’ and CE1.1 ‘Manufacture of plastic packaging goods’ contributed to aligned Capex. We have also assessed CCM6.5 ‘Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars, and light commercial vehicles’, which relates to the electrification of our fleet. Although a significant part of our fleet meets the TSC, due to challenges with the DNSH criteria, we will claim zero alignment to EU Taxonomy in 2024. Looking ahead, we expect to maintain or increase EU Taxonomy alignment as we continue to evaluate investment plans and operational expenditures in areas that could become eligible with the introduction of regulatory updates. Metrics and targets E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation E1.MDR-T_01,02,03,05,06,07, E1-4_01,24 NetZeroby40 Multiple climate scenarios have been taken into consideration, as outlined in SBM-3_08_09_10, helping assess external drivers, including policy developments and market shifts. In October 2021, we announced our NetZeroby40 transition plan, as part of our commitment to reach net zero absolute emissions across all scopes by 2040. This target is fully aligned with the 1.5 degree pathway, and it was approved by the SBTi in December 2024 (link to the SBTi website). NetZeroby40 is a carbon emissions roadmap including our base-year results, year-on-year emissions targets, 2030 near-term and our 2040 net zero targets. The plan’s main targets are: Overall net-zero target: • Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain by 2040. Near-term targets: • Energy & Industry: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 46.2% by 2030 from a 2019 base year. Coca- Cola HBC AG also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 27.5% within the same timeframe. • FLAG: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 33.3% by 2030 from a 2019 base year.* Coca- Cola HBC AG commits to no deforestation across its primary deforestation-linked commodities, with a target date of December 31, 2025. * The target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Long-term targets: • Energy & Industry: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 90% by 2040 from a 2019 base year. Coca- Cola HBC AG also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 90% within the same timeframe. • FLAG: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 72% by 2040 from a 2019 base year.* * This target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Science-based targets: please see above. Mission 2025 Developed in 2018, Mission 2025 is a set of sustainability commitments based on our stakeholder materiality matrix and aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their targets. It spans across six key focus areas to cover our entire value chain, including emissions reduction, with the following commitments: • Reduce direct carbon emissions ratio by 30% vs 2017. • 50% of our refrigerators in customer outlets will be energy efficient. • 50% of total energy used in our plants will be from renewable and clean sources. • 100% of the total electricity used in our plants in EU and Switzerland will be from renewable and clean source. E1.MDR-T_04 Our recently approved by the SBTi targets for reducing scope 1 and 2 and scope 3 emissions have organisation-wide coverage. We are covering 100% of our operational activities.E1.MDR-T_10 As previously mentioned, our climate change commitments cover our entire Company, all scope 1, 2, 3, and we aim to reach net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040 as per the 1.5 degree scenario, as well as our intermediate emissions reduction target by 2030 is approved by the SBTi. E1.MDR-T_08 The Group’s annual roadmap of net zero target by 2040 is shown in the net zero chart in the strategic part of the IAR, section ‘License to operate’, page 25. Mission 2025 targets related to climate and energy are disclosed in the Strategic Report, ‘Key performance indicators’ section on pages 33 to 34. Those targets don’t have interim targets, but only annual roadmaps at Group level disaggregated further down per BU. E1.MDR-T_09, E1-4_22 At the end of 2020, we set and received approval by the SBTi of our Science-Based Targets by 2030, as our previous SBT period-closing was end of 2020. Those targets are reported in the 2024 IAR (as an old roadmap): Reduction of absolute scope 1, 2 emissions by 55% by 2030 vs 2017 baseline following the 1.5 degree global warming scenario and reduction of scope 3 emissions by 21% by 2030 vs. 2017. So far, we have achieved 31% reduction of our operational emissions vs 2017 (excluding Egypt). Those approved by the SBTi targets are without the integrated new acquisition, Coca-Cola HBC Egypt operations, as its integration happened in 2022, after targets submission and approval in 2021.For the newest targets, approved by the SBTi in December 2024, please refer to previous page (Net Zero targets and FLAG targets). We report as per the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. We are covering 100% of our operational activities. We account and report all seven GHG emissions and report those as equivalent to CO2. Under scope 2 emissions, we are reporting market-based GHG emissions and separately the location-based scope 2 emissions. Our climate targets are also aligned with the UN SDG Target 13.1, i.e. strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries, as well as Targets 7.2 and 7.3 on increased renewable energy and energy efficiency. We do not use any carbon removal nor neutralisation or off-setting/insetting methodologies to achieve our GHG internal annual roadmap targets as per the SBTi guidelines. E1.MDR-T_11 The Group sets measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound targets on material sustainability matters through a structured and inclusive process. Stakeholder engagement plays a pivotal role in this process, particularly through our Annual Stakeholder Forums, where key discussions are taken, and the insights gathered are integrated into the formulation of our targets. Additionally, the Group takes into account the requirements of ESG raters, including those of our investors, ensuring that our targets are aligned with their evolving expectations. The UN SDGs also form a crucial foundation for the Group’s target- setting process, guiding our efforts in addressing global sustainability challenges. Through this comprehensive approach, the Group ensures that its targets are relevant, ambitious and responsive to both stakeholder input and global standards. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 90 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystem SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model E4.SBM-3_05 Through our double materiality assessment, we have identified a material impact within our upstream value chain specifically related to land use change. However, no material impact has been identified in relation to soil degradation, desertification, or soil sealing. E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model E4-1_01 Protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is one of our main sustainability priorities. Our biggest impact on the biodiversity landscape occurs in the upstream segment of our value chain, and it is related to the potential deforestation (land use change) from some agricultural commodities, mostly wood (used for our paper packaging materials). We are committed to eliminate deforestation of our main ingredients by 2025, and it is aligned with the recommendations by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) for companies with Forest, Land and Agricultural Activities (FLAG). Due to FLAG recommendations we have updated our net zero plan as stated in ESRS E1. Also, in our Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), we have requirements related to deforestation, and our target is to achieve 100% sustainable sourcing by 2025. We voluntarily report the sites which are adjacent to legally protected areas, and for all of them we have a confirmed ‘no negative impact’ by an external expert which performs so-called Source Vulnerability Assessment for all the water sources we use in direct operations. In 2022, we published our biodiversity statement where we set a goal to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. The time horizons we use are defined as follows: short-term (2024), medium-term (2025-2030), and long-term (2031-2050). E4-1_02 Environmental risks at supplier level, including deforestation risk, are mitigated through our robust programme at procurement level. We annually review the risks and performance of all our suppliers against our SGPs, PSA principles for agricultural ingredients, Water Risk Assessment, as well as other equally important aspects that impact our business, such as supply risk and financial stability. Overall, it is important to point out that sustainability is one of the key criteria in supplier selection under strategic sourcing, as well as a criterion for the Annual Supplier Review process that we conduct cross-functionally across our supply base. In more detail, to ensure that suppliers demonstrate ESG requirements’ compliance we rely on multiple screening and assessment practices that offer us a holistic view of their performance. This means we collect primary and secondary data that we combine together and analyse to identify priority areas for critical to our operations suppliers. The Sustainable Agriculture programme secures ESG monitoring through PSA certification process of the Coca-Cola System across our main agricultural commodities. For the remaining supply base, we have designed a robust assessment journey leveraging ESG physical audits, as well as a number of globally recognised screening and assessment tools such as EcoVadis IQ Plus, EcoVadis Assessments, SEDEX, WWF Water Risk Filter Assessment, Resilience Event Watch, Exiger and Moody’s Analytics. Additionally, annual Supply Base Assessments are carried out by specialist consultants for Group Critical suppliers. These assessments evaluate Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers on various criteria, including water risk, climate change, forced labour, child labour, labour rights, biodiversity, and financial risk. In case of any risk identified, the supplier is asked to provide an action plan which is monitored regularly. For deforestation, we have a specific project in place where we perform readiness assessment for all our supplier under the requirements of EUDR and we are currently organising our internal process to ensure we are able to assess risks and take necessary actions on an on-going basis from the moment that EUDR is formally introduced as of 1st of January 2026. While EUDR is covering specific Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 115 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued commodities, we are proactively collecting deforestation information from all agricultural ingredients suppliers across all our countries in order to have a holistic view of the exposure and potential risk. By the end of 2025, we will have a programme in place to cover any identified gaps. Last but not least, we are in process of implementing a deforestation tracking platform on top of any other activities already in motion, which will also be ready before the end of 2025. E4-1_03, 04, 05 The Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) has identified five pressures on nature: 1) land/water/sea use change, 2) resource exploitation, 3) climate change, 4) pollution and 5) invasive species. In 2023, we undertook the mapping and materiality assessment on biodiversity across our value chain and we assessed those pressures following the SBTN guideline step 1 and 2. We have collected all our activity data, covering: 1) upstream activities (volumes sourced and origin of raw materials), 2) direct operations (consumption of water and energy of all sites), and 3) downstream (packaging distribution by country). Then we translated the activity data into pressures on nature across five metrics. These pressures on nature were weighted by local nature vulnerability indicators assessing the state of nature in the locations where the activity occurs. Time horizons used in the analysis are as described in E4-1_01. We considered in the assumptions the tighter environmental regulations (e.g., EUDR), carbon pricing policies which would include land conversion activities, deforestation-free commitments from suppliers, and climate risks (e.g., water scarcity, extreme weather events). The result shows that the biggest impact we have is in upstream activities, mainly agricultural suppliers and their impact on land-use change or deforestation. Our procurement strategy to purchase certified raw materials that meet our PSA and our goal of achieving deforestation-free supply chain, support mitigation of the impact and also reduce any potential risk that may occur. E4-1_06 Relevance to stakeholder engagement is described in E4.MDR-T_11. E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-P_01 & E4-2_01, 20 We have adopted policies that address deforestation and sustainable land practices. Our overarching goal for biodiversity is to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Besides, we have set our Environmental Policy, the main objective of which is to minimise the environmental impact of the Group, and the Biodiversity Statement, the objective of which is to enhance biodiversity by reducing emissions and water use, by preserving and reinstating water priority areas, and by sourcing agricultural ingredients sustainably. Moreover, through the Biodiversity Statement, CCHBC is committed to promoting sustainable forest management and helping protect woodlands from deforestation and illegal harvesting. For the monitoring process, please refer to ESRS E1 section, as it constitutes the standard procedure applicable to all relevant topics. Our policies support biodiversity conservation, sustainable land management, and responsible sourcing. We are committed to achieving a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas by 2040 and eliminating deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Thus, our policies address ecosystem protection, sustainable forest management, and mitigation of environmental impacts. We recognise the importance of biodiversity for long-term resilience, as our Natural Capital Impact Study and Source Vulnerability Assessments (SVA) help identify key dependencies and risks, while sustainable sourcing practices mitigate transition risks. We implement traceability mechanisms through certifications, verification schemes, and supplier requirements aligned with The Coca-Cola Company’s Principles for Sustainable Agriculture and EcoVadis assessments. Moreover, our policies prioritise collaboration with NGOs, communities, and industry stakeholders to ensure sustainable supply chains that respect human rights, promote responsible land use, and protect natural ecosystems. E4.MDR-P_02 The policies are applicable across all geographies where Coca-Cola HBC operates. Among the affected stakeholder groups, farmers, other suppliers and local communities associated with the Group’s upstream value chain, are most significantly impacted. E4.MDR-P_03 Policies/statements related to environment (including biodiversity) are approved and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors, and they apply to all Coca-Cola HBC employees, regardless of level and function. E4.MDR-P_04 & E4-2_02 In June 2022, we joined the SBTN Corporate Engagement Program. We will continue working to implement the SBTN’s guidance, in order to map and assess the material impacts on biodiversity of our critical commodities and suppliers and then set science-based targets in priority areas. E4.MDR-P_05 We engage with a broad range of stakeholder groups for biodiversity, including our communities, governments, NGOs, investors and suppliers, taking into account their recommendations in the process of setting biodiversity-related policy. For more information, please refer to E1 section. E4.MDR-P_06 The Environmental Policy and the Biodiversity Statement are publicly available at our site (Policies | Coca-Cola HBC), which affected stakeholders can easily access. E4-2_03 The critical areas in our supply chain are defined based on the material dependencies that we have in relation to biodiversity, for example the provision of water, agricultural raw materials and wood. E4-2_04 We started mapping all our operations and critical commodities/suppliers. For our sustainability assessment, we use the risk-based approach with the support of our partners (EcoVadis). Transparency and traceability of material supply chains is established through certifications/ verification schemes or by ensuring suppliers have robust traceability of supply that meets our expectations (please see ‘Supplier Engagement, Verification and Assurance’ from TCCC Principles for Sustainable Agriculture). Also, we regularly measure and report on the progress made against our Mission 2025 commitments, and all other commitments, including those related to biodiversity and deforestation. The annual performance is disclosed in our Annual Report and the GRI Content Index, verified by an independent auditor, and published on our website. E4-2_05, 06, 07, 18 We are committed to sourcing 100% of our key ingredients in line with the Principles for Sustainable Agriculture as set out by TCCC. These principles protect and support biodiversity and ecosystems, uphold human and workplace rights, ensure animal health and welfare, and help build thriving communities. They apply to primary production, i.e., at farm level, and form the basis for our continued engagement with Tier 1 suppliers to ensure sustainable long-term supply at a lower environmental impact. This extends in particular to the sections Conservation of Forests, Conservation of Natural Habitats, Biodiversity and Ecosystems, Soil Management and Agrochemical Management. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 116 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Metrics and targets E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-A_01, 02, 05 & E4-3_01 Table 25: List of key actions and resources in relation to biodiversity Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Application of mitigation hierarchy Quantitative and qualitative information Biodiversity impact and risk assessment Yes Yes, it continues in 2025 Identify CCH’s most material impacts on nature and where they occur in the value chain Prioritise a shortlist of key contributors by location for target setting Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Use of the SBTN methodology. Assessment of the three steps of the value chain. Set targets for water replenishment. Entire value chain Global Suppliers, NGOs, communities, own employees, regulators Avoidance Completed step 1 and 2 of the SBTN methodology Collaborate with suppliers to develop plans to address land conversion risks and develop an appropriate monitoring system to measure deforestation at supplier level Yes Yes, it continues in 2025- 2026 The amount and % of our main commodities which are deforestation-free Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025 Continue collaboration with main agricultural suppliers; cross-functional work for assuring compliance with the EU DR Upstream Global Suppliers, NGOs, regulators Avoidance, Minimisation Meetings with main sugar suppliers performed in 2024; meetings with software provider for geo-satellite monitoring and deforestation monitoring done Biodiversity action near our Tylicz plant in Poland Yes Yes, it continues in the next three years Minimise negative impact and enhance river’s biodiversity Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Fish stocking of the Muszynka River near our Tylicz plant in Poland; two clean-up activities near plant and on riverbanks Own operations, downstream Poland Nature, communities, local municipality Reducing, restoring 3,000 common trout released in three river locations; 400kg waste collected Issue Biodiversity Whitepaper Yes 2025 Publish CSR Europe Alliance Biodiversity Whitepaper Build awareness and collaborate with industries and other stakeholders Work with other industry players from CSR Europe, NGOs and other partners to publish ‘How companies in Europe address biodiversity: Learning from disclosure’ Whitepaper Downstream Europe Other industry players, NGOs, regulators Transform Whitepaper published in February 2025 At this stage, we have not utilised biodiversity offsets or incorporated specific indigenous knowledge into our actions. Our approach is grounded in best practices, scientific knowledge and in the collaboration with our suppliers. For water stewardship projects that also impact biodiversity, please see ‘Table 21: List of actions in relation to water management’ on page 106. E4.MDR-A_03 Our biodiversity journey started in 2022. Our actions are work in progress as we follow the SBTN guidelines, and they are also in dynamic development phase. Our water replenishment activities will continue at least until 2030. Deforestation actions will continue beyond 2025. E4.MDR-A_04 Every site adjacent to legally protected areas has Source Vulnerability Assessment, which shows no negative impact on biodiversity. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 117 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E4.MDR-T_01-07, 09, 13 & E4-4_06, 07, 09 E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems While the action plan described above is essential to our sustainability strategy, there are no significant Capex or Opex to disclose for the related initiatives. Our Group’s treasury strategy ensures the availability of financial resources to support related initiatives. By leveraging a diversified range of financing mechanisms, we can effectively address both current and future priorities.E4.MDR-T_01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 09, 13 & E4-4_06, 07, 09 Table 26: List of targets’ progress Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline Target to be achieved 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Geographical scope Description of target Mitigation hierarchy Relation of target to identified material impacts Planning to achieve the target Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain Absolute 2025 2020 (cut-off year) 100% Sugar/juices are 96% (certified) Regulation on Deforestation-free Products (EU DR). Global Biodiversity Framework’s ‘30x30’ conservation target. Main commodities (sugar/juices), and critical for biodiversity ones, global scope Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain Avoidance, minimisation, restoration Land use ecosystem change 100% certification for sugar/juices in 2025; In the EU we focus on full EU DR compliance (coffee and paper/wood) in 2025 100% sustainable sourcing Absolute 2025 2017 100% 96% (excluding Multon Partners Juices) FAO Good Agricultural Practices; ILO Main commodities we use, global scope Achieve 100% adherence to the PSA in main agricultural commodities Avoidance, minimisation, restoration and rehabilitation, compensation or offsets Land use ecosystem change In 2024, we have 100% sustainable sourcing for our main agricultural ingredients in Europe. Plan to achieve 100% in Africa in 2025. No assumptions are used to define targets. We have considered the critical areas and commodities based on the risk assessment. We took into consideration the best global practices and guidelines such as the SBTN, FAO Good Agricultural Practices, ILO and EU regulations. Targets are monitored quarterly by obtaining information from suppliers for their sustainable certifications. The amount of procured quantity of raw materials certified is divided by the total procured volume for the raw materials in scope. Current status is as per the initial plans. Targets are set for the upstream part of the value chain due to the biggest impact there. E4.MDR-T_10 & E4-4_05 The targets set are in line with the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework and its mission to halt and reverse biodiversity loss to put nature on a path to recovery, and they are aligned with EU 2030 Biodiversity Strategy, where the goal for protecting 30% of land in the EU is stated as well as with the EU Regulation on Deforestation-free Products (EU DR). E4.MDR-T_11 Stakeholder engagement plays a pivotal role in this process, particularly through our Annual Stakeholder Forums, where key discussions take place, and the insights gathered are integrated into the formulation of our targets. Also, during the supplier sustainability events we organise regularly, we discuss different ESG aspects, including biodiversity and deforestation. Additionally, the Group takes into account the requirements of ESG raters, including those of our investors, ensuring that our targets are aligned with their evolving expectations. Moreover, we have conducted several meetings with our main sugar and sweeteners suppliers where we discussed environmental topics, among them the deforestation issue. E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change E4-5_04 Our operations are primarily based in cities, so we do not have a direct impact on biodiversity and ecosystem change. The impact is linked to Tier 2 and 3 suppliers in the upstream part of the value chain, specifically concerning agricultural ingredients and primarily paper/ wooden materials. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 118 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy Impact, risk and opportunity management E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5.MDR-P_01 Packaging plays a vital role in keeping our products fresh and safe. Sustainable packaging and waste management are important to our business, given the amount of packaging we use, the variety of pack materials we use and the need to recover and recycle them after consumption. E5-1_03 & E5-1_04 Beverage packaging has value and life beyond its initial use, and we believe that it should be collected and recycled into a new package as part of a circular economy. To deliver this vision, we own, invest in and take responsibility for collected packaging material as members of authorised recovery organisations. Our commitments E5.MDR-P_01 & E5.MDR-P_04 We are committed to continually improving our environmental performance in the areas of packaging and packaging waste. Since packaging remains critical for us, as already stated through our DMA, and thus we have adopted the ‘Packaging Waste Management Policy’. This policy includes objectives relevant both to packaging materials and packaging waste, and as all our environmental policies, it considers the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and the GRI Standards. E5-1_01 & E5.MDR-P_01 Our Packaging Waste Management Policy commits to collect the equivalent of 75% of our packaging for recycling or reuse by 2025, use 35% recycled PET (rPET) by 2025 in our PET bottles, and in the EU countries, our objective is to reach 50% rPET by 2025. We also are committed to have 100% recyclable by design primary packaging materials and to invest in recycling infrastructure and new technologies that enable increased usage of recycled content in our packaging, where technically and economically feasible. E5-1_03 & E5-1_04 Additionally, for our engagements regarding recyclability and recycled packaging, we have included targets relevant to: • Collection: Recover 75% of our primary packaging for recycling or reuse by 2025. • Eliminate Unnecessary Packaging: Building on the extensive light-weighting programme delivered over the past decade, we will continue to light-weight our primary packaging towards ‘best-in-class‘ bottles and cans in each market, while innovating to remove shrink film from multipacks. • Expand Reusable Packaging: Deliver programmes to increase reusable packaging from 12% of transactions sold in ‘returnable’, and 4% in ‘dispensed,’ formats. • Reduce Virgin Plastic: Through the increased use of circular PET (rPET), light-weighting, removal of plastic film and expansion of reusable packaging formats. • Innovation: Deliver new sustainable packaging solutions through partnerships and R&D. • Inspire and Engage Consumers: Use the power of our brands to encourage consumers to recycle. E5-1_02 & E5.MDR-P_02 Furthermore, under the umbrella of our Biodiversity Statement, as already mentioned in the ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystem, sustainable sourcing of packaging is also taken into account. We aim to source all our paper-based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources. All our paper bricks we use are FSC-certified. The scope of our commitments is to improve the circularity of our packaging and to avoid packaging waste, which in turn contributes to better environmental performance. Among the key areas we focus on, and relevant to the materiality analysis, is the circular economy. We take action to improve packaging sustainability, including its recycling into new packages and measuring, evaluating and sharing progress across regions and stakeholders, providing the respective transparency. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 119 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time horizon Scope of Action List of actions Current Planned Expected outcome Relation to policy objectives/ targets (where relevant) Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Increase the number of energy-efficient coolers in the marketplace Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Deploying more energy-efficient coolers at the marketplace; Engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change Continue purchasing energy efficient new coolers from our suppliers and replacing old coolers with energy-efficient ones Downstream All markets Customers, Suppliers For packaging initiatives contributing to scope 3, please refer to ESRS E5 on pages 121 to 124 Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Accelerating our packaging and packaging waste agenda; Engaging with relevant stakeholders to combat climate change Using more recycled content and reusable/refillable packaging solutions, decarbonisation at supplier level; all initiatives for packaging collection that increase % collected and recovered packaging Downstream All markets Customers, Consumers, Suppliers Use of ISO standard for commodities and supplier specific LCA development for key direct supplies of raw and packaging materials Yes Continuous Scope 3 carbon emissions reduction Working with suppliers to reduce their carbon footprint and to minimise their climate impacts Using supplier-specific emission factors,providing guiding suppliers to work on decarbonisation plans and renewable energy, providing supplier Carbon emission development programme (Supplier Leadership on Climate – SLoC). Upstream Global Suppliers E1.MDR-A_04 As per UNESDA statement “Beverage sector acknowledges its responsibility in playing its part in the fight against climate change and we are committed to help the European Union become a climate neutral continent by 2050 by driving decarbonisation throughout our value chain – from responsible sourcing of our ingredients to production and distribution of the final products. We know our competitiveness and long-term success depend on the sustainability of our operations and the resilience of our value chain”. We have not identified direct harm to any stakeholders’ group from our actual impact. All actions we take are towards decarbonisation by following the applicable regulatory, industry and international standards. E1.MDR-A_05 In 2024, we made progress on our climate-related actions and plans and for the fourth consecutive year we reached our annual roadmap: • continued our decarbonisation journey in all five levers in alignment with our NetZeroby40 roadmap; • focused on packaging decarbonisation using a higher percentage of recycled materials and improving percentage packaging collection; • supported further roll-out of Deposit Return Schemes in our EU markets; • promoted Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) policies and the launch of new packaging collection systems in priority markets; • cooperated with eight other industry players and three organisations to publish CSR Europe Biodiversity Alliance White Paper “How Companies in Europe Address Biodiversity’; • expanded our partnerships in water and waste reduction. In 2021, we committed to achieve net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040. This is our most ambitious, complex and forward-looking commitment. We were among the first companies to adopt science-based reduction targets. In our existing net zero roadmap, our starting point is 2017, the baseline for our science-based targets. We have reduced our absolute total value chain emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 31% (excluding Egypt) from 2010 to the end of 2024, our absolute value chain reduction in 2024 versus 2017 is 18% (excluding Egypt). These results come from our sustained investment and focus, and highlight our consistent approach to decarbonisation. Reducing carbon emissions is the non-negotiable goal for our business. We continued to work across our value chain to reduce emissions, with a particular focus on energy efficiency and renewal, packaging, coolers and ingredients. We do this because we will make the biggest progress by delivering sustainable solutions in these parts of our value chain. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 88 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued In 2024, we updated our net zero roadmap with three important changes. We integrated our Egyptian operations into our 2030 and NetZeroby40 climate targets, we added new Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) targets, and we updated our mid-term emissions goal to follow the Well-Below-2-Degrees (WB2D) pathway until 2030 and then the 1.5 degrees pathway until 2040. Due to the FLAG targets requirements, we are moving our baseline year for the mid-term 2030 emissions reduction targets from 2017 to 2019. With all those changes, our NetZeroby40 target was formally validated by the SBTi. As the validation came in December 2024, in 2025 we will work to update the roadmap with all those changes and communicate transparently on our website. E1-3_01,03,04 Table 9: Mitigation actions per decarbonisation lever (action, GHG reductions) The actions per lever consider our updated net zero roadmap as approved by the SBTi in late December 2024. It includes Egypt acquisition, scope 3 accelerated climate scenario (well below 2 degree Celsius), and a new baseline year of 2019 (instead of 2017) as per the SBTi Net Zero guideline and the SBTi requirements for FLAG emissions, where 2017 cannot be used as a baseline year. We are going to perform carbon boundary review and recalculation of our emissions to include FLAG factors in 2025 and will update the roadmap accordingly. GHG emissions reduction Achieved (2024 vs. 2019) tCO2e Expected (2030 vs. 2019) tCO2e Time horizon for completing the action Year Relevant target (link to E1-4) Manufacturing (includes scope 1 fuels used, scope 1 losses of CO2 used for beverage carbonation, scope 2 electricity/heat/steam/hot water purchased, scope 3 CO2 in product (carbonation) and scope 3 CO2 produced in CHPs): • continue implementing and accelerating the energy-efficient projects in our plants (deployment of energy-saving projects, old equipment modernisation, and installation of heat pumps and electrification); • improving the CO2 yield in the plants; • accelerating usage of renewable and/or cleaner energy to replace fossil fuel in scope 1 or electricity/heat/steam/hot water in scope 2. +1kt +0.2% -198kt -46% 2030 Scope 1 and 2 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the 1.5 degree climate scenario (SBT) Transportation (includes scope 1 fuels used for own transport, both light and heavy, and scope 3 fuels used for outsourced logistics and transportation): • optimising the routes of light and heavy fleet, increasing logistics efficiency and increasing heavy trucks utilization; • shifting the existing fleet to innovative technologies and renewable or alternative fuels; • enhancing the strategic partnerships with our third-party logistics providers and joint investments (accelerate shifting to alternative fuels, route to market evolution, shifting of more volume to trains and applying industry innovations). +6kt +2% -8kt -3% 2030 Scope 1 and 2 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the 1.5 degree climate scenario (SBT); Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Packaging (includes scope 3 from all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging used for our products): • implementing our Pack Mix of the Future strategy (increasing recycled PET, moving from non-reusable one-way glass bottles to reusable glass bottles and providing more packageless solutions); • implementing decarbonisation of our primary and secondary packaging materials (aluminium cans, PET bottles, glass bottles, plastic labels, closures, stretch films, etc.). +271kt +21% -309kt -21% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Ingredients (includes scope 3 from all ingredients used for manufacturing of our beverages): • decarbonisation initiatives with our suppliers (engagement of farmers through co-development of farming pilots with suppliers, using regenerative agricultural practices); • continue reformulation of our products and moving to more lights and zero products in our beverage portfolio. +135kt +10% -243kt -17% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Drink equipment (includes scope 3 of electricity used by our customers for the drink equipment we provide, scope 1 for refrigerants’ losses from cold drink equipment): • accelerate the process of providing energy-efficient drink equipment to our customers and finding innovative solutions for further energy efficiency of our drink equipment; • greening the electricity grid mainly in Europe and with slower pace in Africa. -500kt -38% -929kt -63% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 89 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-3_07,08, E1-1_04,06,08 As detailed in the EU Taxonomy section of this sustainability statement, our core economic activity is not yet included in the published Delegated Acts and is therefore not considered Taxonomy-eligible at this stage. However, we have assessed secondary activities that contribute to climate change mitigation. In 2024, 0.67% of total Capex was Taxonomy-aligned, also driven by activities connected to our climate transition plan. Specifically, CCM4.25 ‘Production of heat/cool using waste heat’ , CCM7.4 ‘Installation, maintenance, and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings’ and CE1.1 ‘Manufacture of plastic packaging goods’ contributed to aligned Capex. We have also assessed CCM6.5 ‘Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars, and light commercial vehicles’, which relates to the electrification of our fleet. Although a significant part of our fleet meets the TSC, due to challenges with the DNSH criteria, we will claim zero alignment to EU Taxonomy in 2024. Looking ahead, we expect to maintain or increase EU Taxonomy alignment as we continue to evaluate investment plans and operational expenditures in areas that could become eligible with the introduction of regulatory updates. Metrics and targets E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation E1.MDR-T_01,02,03,05,06,07, E1-4_01,24 NetZeroby40 Multiple climate scenarios have been taken into consideration, as outlined in SBM-3_08_09_10, helping assess external drivers, including policy developments and market shifts. In October 2021, we announced our NetZeroby40 transition plan, as part of our commitment to reach net zero absolute emissions across all scopes by 2040. This target is fully aligned with the 1.5 degree pathway, and it was approved by the SBTi in December 2024 (link to the SBTi website). NetZeroby40 is a carbon emissions roadmap including our base-year results, year-on-year emissions targets, 2030 near-term and our 2040 net zero targets. The plan’s main targets are: Overall net-zero target: • Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain by 2040. Near-term targets: • Energy & Industry: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 46.2% by 2030 from a 2019 base year. Coca- Cola HBC AG also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 27.5% within the same timeframe. • FLAG: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 33.3% by 2030 from a 2019 base year.* Coca- Cola HBC AG commits to no deforestation across its primary deforestation-linked commodities, with a target date of December 31, 2025. * The target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Long-term targets: • Energy & Industry: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 90% by 2040 from a 2019 base year. Coca- Cola HBC AG also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 90% within the same timeframe. • FLAG: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 72% by 2040 from a 2019 base year.* * This target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Science-based targets: please see above. Mission 2025 Developed in 2018, Mission 2025 is a set of sustainability commitments based on our stakeholder materiality matrix and aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their targets. It spans across six key focus areas to cover our entire value chain, including emissions reduction, with the following commitments: • Reduce direct carbon emissions ratio by 30% vs 2017. • 50% of our refrigerators in customer outlets will be energy efficient. • 50% of total energy used in our plants will be from renewable and clean sources. • 100% of the total electricity used in our plants in EU and Switzerland will be from renewable and clean source. E1.MDR-T_04 Our recently approved by the SBTi targets for reducing scope 1 and 2 and scope 3 emissions have organisation-wide coverage. We are covering 100% of our operational activities.E1.MDR-T_10 As previously mentioned, our climate change commitments cover our entire Company, all scope 1, 2, 3, and we aim to reach net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040 as per the 1.5 degree scenario, as well as our intermediate emissions reduction target by 2030 is approved by the SBTi. E1.MDR-T_08 The Group’s annual roadmap of net zero target by 2040 is shown in the net zero chart in the strategic part of the IAR, section ‘License to operate’, page 25. Mission 2025 targets related to climate and energy are disclosed in the Strategic Report, ‘Key performance indicators’ section on pages 33 to 34. Those targets don’t have interim targets, but only annual roadmaps at Group level disaggregated further down per BU. E1.MDR-T_09, E1-4_22 At the end of 2020, we set and received approval by the SBTi of our Science-Based Targets by 2030, as our previous SBT period-closing was end of 2020. Those targets are reported in the 2024 IAR (as an old roadmap): Reduction of absolute scope 1, 2 emissions by 55% by 2030 vs 2017 baseline following the 1.5 degree global warming scenario and reduction of scope 3 emissions by 21% by 2030 vs. 2017. So far, we have achieved 31% reduction of our operational emissions vs 2017 (excluding Egypt). Those approved by the SBTi targets are without the integrated new acquisition, Coca-Cola HBC Egypt operations, as its integration happened in 2022, after targets submission and approval in 2021.For the newest targets, approved by the SBTi in December 2024, please refer to previous page (Net Zero targets and FLAG targets). We report as per the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. We are covering 100% of our operational activities. We account and report all seven GHG emissions and report those as equivalent to CO2. Under scope 2 emissions, we are reporting market-based GHG emissions and separately the location-based scope 2 emissions. Our climate targets are also aligned with the UN SDG Target 13.1, i.e. strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries, as well as Targets 7.2 and 7.3 on increased renewable energy and energy efficiency. We do not use any carbon removal nor neutralisation or off-setting/insetting methodologies to achieve our GHG internal annual roadmap targets as per the SBTi guidelines. E1.MDR-T_11 The Group sets measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound targets on material sustainability matters through a structured and inclusive process. Stakeholder engagement plays a pivotal role in this process, particularly through our Annual Stakeholder Forums, where key discussions are taken, and the insights gathered are integrated into the formulation of our targets. Additionally, the Group takes into account the requirements of ESG raters, including those of our investors, ensuring that our targets are aligned with their evolving expectations. The UN SDGs also form a crucial foundation for the Group’s target- setting process, guiding our efforts in addressing global sustainability challenges. Through this comprehensive approach, the Group ensures that its targets are relevant, ambitious and responsive to both stakeholder input and global standards. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 90 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1.MDR-T_12 As per the GHG Protocol, the recalculation policy for base-year emissions and previous years’ emissions is applicable in case of the following changes: 1) significant change in calculation methodology, 2) significant changeinemissionsconversion factors (LCAs), 3) investment, divestment, mergers and acquisitions with significant impact to business financials and emissions (>3% of the volume), 4) significant change in the business growth rate or activity, and 5) mistake or calculation gap found which is bigger than 3%. In 2024, we have not recalculated our emissions. Emission factors are provided to us by the Institute of Energy and Environment (IFEU) assigned by The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) and used as the emissions factors data source to TCCC and their bottling system for regular updates (update as of January 2024). E1.MDR-T_13 In 2024, we reached 18% reduction of our absolute value chain emissions versus 2017 which is the fourth year of meeting our annual roadmap (please see the Mission 2025 performance table in the strategic part of the IAR: we overachieved our target on percentage energy-efficient coolers, we continued with 100% renewable and clean electricity in our EU and Swiss plants, and we overachieved our percentage renewable and clean energy across Coca-Cola HBC plants.) As part of our performance review, each target is monitored regularly (monthly or quarterly). We report the progress in a specific dashboard. There the status versus the target is colour-coded and disclosed as difference (absolute and in %). Performance review includes setting corrective measures and follow up. E1-4_01-17 Table 10: GHG emission reduction targets Scope Baseline year Baseline GHG emissions Current Reporting Year Value Target year Target reduction: % of baseline GHG emissions Target % of scope 1, 2 and 3 Scope 2 location / market-based Coverage of GHG (Year) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (Year) (%) Old SBT target (by 2024): reduce GHG emissions from direct operations 55% by 2030 vs 2017 (CCH excl. Egypt) 100% scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 market-based Scope 1 and 2 combined 2017 562,608 390,622 2030 55% Old SBT target (by 2024): reduce scope 3 GHG emissions 21% by 2030 vs 2017 (CCH excl. Egypt) 100% scope 3 n/a Scope 3 only 2017 4,399,075 3,684,002 2030 21% Revised target (from 2025) Energy and Industry: reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 46.2% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 market-based Scope 1 and 2 combined (scope 2 market-based) 2019 545,386 (to be adjusted in 2025 after full carbon inventory completion) Will be reported in 2025 2030 46.2% Revised target (from 2025): reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions 27.5% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% scope 3 n/a Scope 3 only 2019 4,622,844 (to be adjusted in 2025 after full carbon inventory completion) Will be reported in 2025 2030 27.5% Revised target (from 2025) FLAG: reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions 33.3% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% FLAG part of scope 3 n/a FLAG scope 3 only 2019 536,389 (to be adjusted in 2025) Will be reported in 2025 2030 33.3% Our targets refer to all GHG types according to the SBTi methodology (e.g., CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) and they correspond to gross emissions. Our old roadmap and targets are based on the approved SBT in 2021 when FLAG targets and Net Zero Guidelines were not available. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 91 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Our revised roadmap and targets are based on the formally approved by the SBTi in December 2024 net zero target by 2040 and SBT including FLAG by 2030. E1-4_18 Within our recently approved NetZeroby40 targets, we have included all relevant emissions from all our entities from our financial reporting, following the materiality threshold as per the GHG Protocol Standard. We also report 100% of emissions from our joint ventures as there we have operational control. Our NetZeroby40 target was formally approved by the SBTi in December 2024. In 2024 we report as per the old science- based target by 2030, also approved by the SBTi where Egyptian operations are excluded as they were acquired in 2022, after setting the target. E1-4_19 We have decreased our absolute direct emissions by 58% and reduced our absolute total value chain emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 31% from 2010 to the end of 2024. All our emissions in those years have been assured by an external organisation, and the assurance statement is available in each of our Integrated Annual Reports published on the website. E1-4_20 Our baseline values are with primary data, assured externally. 2017 was selected as we developed our Mission 2025 in 2018. Now 2019 is selected as per the FLAG requirements and considering the most credible data for our Egyptian operations which were acquired in 2022. We follow GHGP, and we have a recalculation policy to recalculate baseline year as required by the GHG Protocol. E1-4_21 The only occasion where we have slightly modified our baseline year was regarding the development of our FLAG targets. To meet the new SBTi recommendation for FLAG targets, that baseline year should not be older than 2018, we had to change our original 2017 baseline to 2019 for compliance purposes. Furthermore, there were no credible emissions data for our Egyptian operations related to the years prior to 2019. E1-5 Energy consumption and mix E1-5_01-15 Table 11: Energy Consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix 2024 (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products (million \MWh) 0 (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products (million MWh) 0.47 (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas (million MWh) 1.11 (4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources (million MWh) 0 (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from fossil sources (million MWh) 0.36 (6) Total fossil energy consumption (million MWh) (calculated as the sum of lines 1 to 5) 1.94 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (%) 76% (7) Consumption from nuclear sources (million MWh) 0 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption (%) 0 (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) (million MWh) 0 (9) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from renewable sources (million MWh) 0.62 (10) The consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy (million MWh) 0 (11) Total renewable energy consumption (million MWh) (calculated as the sum of lines 8 to 10) 0.62 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (%) 24% Total energy consumption (million MWh) (calculated as the sum of lines 6, 7 and 11) 2.56 Energy intensity per revenue: 0.2379 kWh/€ revenue. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 92 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued commodities, we are proactively collecting deforestation information from all agricultural ingredients suppliers across all our countries in order to have a holistic view of the exposure and potential risk. By the end of 2025, we will have a programme in place to cover any identified gaps. Last but not least, we are in process of implementing a deforestation tracking platform on top of any other activities already in motion, which will also be ready before the end of 2025. E4-1_03, 04, 05 The Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) has identified five pressures on nature: 1) land/water/sea use change, 2) resource exploitation, 3) climate change, 4) pollution and 5) invasive species. In 2023, we undertook the mapping and materiality assessment on biodiversity across our value chain and we assessed those pressures following the SBTN guideline step 1 and 2. We have collected all our activity data, covering: 1) upstream activities (volumes sourced and origin of raw materials), 2) direct operations (consumption of water and energy of all sites), and 3) downstream (packaging distribution by country). Then we translated the activity data into pressures on nature across five metrics. These pressures on nature were weighted by local nature vulnerability indicators assessing the state of nature in the locations where the activity occurs. Time horizons used in the analysis are as described in E4-1_01. We considered in the assumptions the tighter environmental regulations (e.g., EUDR), carbon pricing policies which would include land conversion activities, deforestation-free commitments from suppliers, and climate risks (e.g., water scarcity, extreme weather events). The result shows that the biggest impact we have is in upstream activities, mainly agricultural suppliers and their impact on land-use change or deforestation. Our procurement strategy to purchase certified raw materials that meet our PSA and our goal of achieving deforestation-free supply chain, support mitigation of the impact and also reduce any potential risk that may occur. E4-1_06 Relevance to stakeholder engagement is described in E4.MDR-T_11. E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-P_01 & E4-2_01, 20 We have adopted policies that address deforestation and sustainable land practices. Our overarching goal for biodiversity is to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in supply chain by 2040 and eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Besides, we have set our Environmental Policy, the main objective of which is to minimise the environmental impact of the Group, and the Biodiversity Statement, the objective of which is to enhance biodiversity by reducing emissions and water use, by preserving and reinstating water priority areas, and by sourcing agricultural ingredients sustainably. Moreover, through the Biodiversity Statement, CCHBC is committed to promoting sustainable forest management and helping protect woodlands from deforestation and illegal harvesting. For the monitoring process, please refer to ESRS E1 section, as it constitutes the standard procedure applicable to all relevant topics. Our policies support biodiversity conservation, sustainable land management, and responsible sourcing. We are committed to achieving a net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas by 2040 and eliminating deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. Thus, our policies address ecosystem protection, sustainable forest management, and mitigation of environmental impacts. We recognise the importance of biodiversity for long-term resilience, as our Natural Capital Impact Study and Source Vulnerability Assessments (SVA) help identify key dependencies and risks, while sustainable sourcing practices mitigate transition risks. We implement traceability mechanisms through certifications, verification schemes, and supplier requirements aligned with The Coca-Cola Company’s Principles for Sustainable Agriculture and EcoVadis assessments. Moreover, our policies prioritise collaboration with NGOs, communities, and industry stakeholders to ensure sustainable supply chains that respect human rights, promote responsible land use, and protect natural ecosystems. E4.MDR-P_02 The policies are applicable across all geographies where Coca-Cola HBC operates. Among the affected stakeholder groups, farmers, other suppliers and local communities associated with the Group’s upstream value chain, are most significantly impacted. E4.MDR-P_03 Policies/statements related to environment (including biodiversity) are approved and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors, and they apply to all Coca-Cola HBC employees, regardless of level and function. E4.MDR-P_04 & E4-2_02 In June 2022, we joined the SBTN Corporate Engagement Program. We will continue working to implement the SBTN’s guidance, in order to map and assess the material impacts on biodiversity of our critical commodities and suppliers and then set science-based targets in priority areas. E4.MDR-P_05 We engage with a broad range of stakeholder groups for biodiversity, including our communities, governments, NGOs, investors and suppliers, taking into account their recommendations in the process of setting biodiversity-related policy. For more information, please refer to E1 section. E4.MDR-P_06 The Environmental Policy and the Biodiversity Statement are publicly available at our site (Policies | Coca-Cola HBC), which affected stakeholders can easily access. E4-2_03 The critical areas in our supply chain are defined based on the material dependencies that we have in relation to biodiversity, for example the provision of water, agricultural raw materials and wood. E4-2_04 We started mapping all our operations and critical commodities/suppliers. For our sustainability assessment, we use the risk-based approach with the support of our partners (EcoVadis). Transparency and traceability of material supply chains is established through certifications/ verification schemes or by ensuring suppliers have robust traceability of supply that meets our expectations (please see ‘Supplier Engagement, Verification and Assurance’ from TCCC Principles for Sustainable Agriculture). Also, we regularly measure and report on the progress made against our Mission 2025 commitments, and all other commitments, including those related to biodiversity and deforestation. The annual performance is disclosed in our Annual Report and the GRI Content Index, verified by an independent auditor, and published on our website. E4-2_05, 06, 07, 18 We are committed to sourcing 100% of our key ingredients in line with the Principles for Sustainable Agriculture as set out by TCCC. These principles protect and support biodiversity and ecosystems, uphold human and workplace rights, ensure animal health and welfare, and help build thriving communities. They apply to primary production, i.e., at farm level, and form the basis for our continued engagement with Tier 1 suppliers to ensure sustainable long-term supply at a lower environmental impact. This extends in particular to the sections Conservation of Forests, Conservation of Natural Habitats, Biodiversity and Ecosystems, Soil Management and Agrochemical Management. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 116 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Metrics and targets E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems E4.MDR-A_01, 02, 05 & E4-3_01 Table 25: List of key actions and resources in relation to biodiversity Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Application of mitigation hierarchy Quantitative and qualitative information Biodiversity impact and risk assessment Yes Yes, it continues in 2025 Identify CCH’s most material impacts on nature and where they occur in the value chain Prioritise a shortlist of key contributors by location for target setting Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Use of the SBTN methodology. Assessment of the three steps of the value chain. Set targets for water replenishment. Entire value chain Global Suppliers, NGOs, communities, own employees, regulators Avoidance Completed step 1 and 2 of the SBTN methodology Collaborate with suppliers to develop plans to address land conversion risks and develop an appropriate monitoring system to measure deforestation at supplier level Yes Yes, it continues in 2025- 2026 The amount and % of our main commodities which are deforestation-free Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain by 2025 Continue collaboration with main agricultural suppliers; cross-functional work for assuring compliance with the EU DR Upstream Global Suppliers, NGOs, regulators Avoidance, Minimisation Meetings with main sugar suppliers performed in 2024; meetings with software provider for geo-satellite monitoring and deforestation monitoring done Biodiversity action near our Tylicz plant in Poland Yes Yes, it continues in the next three years Minimise negative impact and enhance river’s biodiversity Net positive impact on biodiversity in critical areas in our operations and supply chain by 2040 Fish stocking of the Muszynka River near our Tylicz plant in Poland; two clean-up activities near plant and on riverbanks Own operations, downstream Poland Nature, communities, local municipality Reducing, restoring 3,000 common trout released in three river locations; 400kg waste collected Issue Biodiversity Whitepaper Yes 2025 Publish CSR Europe Alliance Biodiversity Whitepaper Build awareness and collaborate with industries and other stakeholders Work with other industry players from CSR Europe, NGOs and other partners to publish ‘How companies in Europe address biodiversity: Learning from disclosure’ Whitepaper Downstream Europe Other industry players, NGOs, regulators Transform Whitepaper published in February 2025 At this stage, we have not utilised biodiversity offsets or incorporated specific indigenous knowledge into our actions. Our approach is grounded in best practices, scientific knowledge and in the collaboration with our suppliers. For water stewardship projects that also impact biodiversity, please see ‘Table 21: List of actions in relation to water management’ on page 106. E4.MDR-A_03 Our biodiversity journey started in 2022. Our actions are work in progress as we follow the SBTN guidelines, and they are also in dynamic development phase. Our water replenishment activities will continue at least until 2030. Deforestation actions will continue beyond 2025. E4.MDR-A_04 Every site adjacent to legally protected areas has Source Vulnerability Assessment, which shows no negative impact on biodiversity. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 117 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E4.MDR-T_01-07, 09, 13 & E4-4_06, 07, 09 E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems While the action plan described above is essential to our sustainability strategy, there are no significant Capex or Opex to disclose for the related initiatives. Our Group’s treasury strategy ensures the availability of financial resources to support related initiatives. By leveraging a diversified range of financing mechanisms, we can effectively address both current and future priorities.E4.MDR-T_01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 09, 13 & E4-4_06, 07, 09 Table 26: List of targets’ progress Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline Target to be achieved 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Geographical scope Description of target Mitigation hierarchy Relation of target to identified material impacts Planning to achieve the target Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain Absolute 2025 2020 (cut-off year) 100% Sugar/juices are 96% (certified) Regulation on Deforestation-free Products (EU DR). Global Biodiversity Framework’s ‘30x30’ conservation target. Main commodities (sugar/juices), and critical for biodiversity ones, global scope Eliminate deforestation in our supply chain Avoidance, minimisation, restoration Land use ecosystem change 100% certification for sugar/juices in 2025; In the EU we focus on full EU DR compliance (coffee and paper/wood) in 2025 100% sustainable sourcing Absolute 2025 2017 100% 96% (excluding Multon Partners Juices) FAO Good Agricultural Practices; ILO Main commodities we use, global scope Achieve 100% adherence to the PSA in main agricultural commodities Avoidance, minimisation, restoration and rehabilitation, compensation or offsets Land use ecosystem change In 2024, we have 100% sustainable sourcing for our main agricultural ingredients in Europe. Plan to achieve 100% in Africa in 2025. No assumptions are used to define targets. We have considered the critical areas and commodities based on the risk assessment. We took into consideration the best global practices and guidelines such as the SBTN, FAO Good Agricultural Practices, ILO and EU regulations. Targets are monitored quarterly by obtaining information from suppliers for their sustainable certifications. The amount of procured quantity of raw materials certified is divided by the total procured volume for the raw materials in scope. Current status is as per the initial plans. Targets are set for the upstream part of the value chain due to the biggest impact there. E4.MDR-T_10 & E4-4_05 The targets set are in line with the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework and its mission to halt and reverse biodiversity loss to put nature on a path to recovery, and they are aligned with EU 2030 Biodiversity Strategy, where the goal for protecting 30% of land in the EU is stated as well as with the EU Regulation on Deforestation-free Products (EU DR). E4.MDR-T_11 Stakeholder engagement plays a pivotal role in this process, particularly through our Annual Stakeholder Forums, where key discussions take place, and the insights gathered are integrated into the formulation of our targets. Also, during the supplier sustainability events we organise regularly, we discuss different ESG aspects, including biodiversity and deforestation. Additionally, the Group takes into account the requirements of ESG raters, including those of our investors, ensuring that our targets are aligned with their evolving expectations. Moreover, we have conducted several meetings with our main sugar and sweeteners suppliers where we discussed environmental topics, among them the deforestation issue. E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change E4-5_04 Our operations are primarily based in cities, so we do not have a direct impact on biodiversity and ecosystem change. The impact is linked to Tier 2 and 3 suppliers in the upstream part of the value chain, specifically concerning agricultural ingredients and primarily paper/ wooden materials. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 118 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy Impact, risk and opportunity management E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5.MDR-P_01 Packaging plays a vital role in keeping our products fresh and safe. Sustainable packaging and waste management are important to our business, given the amount of packaging we use, the variety of pack materials we use and the need to recover and recycle them after consumption. E5-1_03 & E5-1_04 Beverage packaging has value and life beyond its initial use, and we believe that it should be collected and recycled into a new package as part of a circular economy. To deliver this vision, we own, invest in and take responsibility for collected packaging material as members of authorised recovery organisations. Our commitments E5.MDR-P_01 & E5.MDR-P_04 We are committed to continually improving our environmental performance in the areas of packaging and packaging waste. Since packaging remains critical for us, as already stated through our DMA, and thus we have adopted the ‘Packaging Waste Management Policy’. This policy includes objectives relevant both to packaging materials and packaging waste, and as all our environmental policies, it considers the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and the GRI Standards. E5-1_01 & E5.MDR-P_01 Our Packaging Waste Management Policy commits to collect the equivalent of 75% of our packaging for recycling or reuse by 2025, use 35% recycled PET (rPET) by 2025 in our PET bottles, and in the EU countries, our objective is to reach 50% rPET by 2025. We also are committed to have 100% recyclable by design primary packaging materials and to invest in recycling infrastructure and new technologies that enable increased usage of recycled content in our packaging, where technically and economically feasible. E5-1_03 & E5-1_04 Additionally, for our engagements regarding recyclability and recycled packaging, we have included targets relevant to: • Collection: Recover 75% of our primary packaging for recycling or reuse by 2025. • Eliminate Unnecessary Packaging: Building on the extensive light-weighting programme delivered over the past decade, we will continue to light-weight our primary packaging towards ‘best-in-class‘ bottles and cans in each market, while innovating to remove shrink film from multipacks. • Expand Reusable Packaging: Deliver programmes to increase reusable packaging from 12% of transactions sold in ‘returnable’, and 4% in ‘dispensed,’ formats. • Reduce Virgin Plastic: Through the increased use of circular PET (rPET), light-weighting, removal of plastic film and expansion of reusable packaging formats. • Innovation: Deliver new sustainable packaging solutions through partnerships and R&D. • Inspire and Engage Consumers: Use the power of our brands to encourage consumers to recycle. E5-1_02 & E5.MDR-P_02 Furthermore, under the umbrella of our Biodiversity Statement, as already mentioned in the ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystem, sustainable sourcing of packaging is also taken into account. We aim to source all our paper-based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources. All our paper bricks we use are FSC-certified. The scope of our commitments is to improve the circularity of our packaging and to avoid packaging waste, which in turn contributes to better environmental performance. Among the key areas we focus on, and relevant to the materiality analysis, is the circular economy. We take action to improve packaging sustainability, including its recycling into new packages and measuring, evaluating and sharing progress across regions and stakeholders, providing the respective transparency. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 119 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Sustainable packaging E5.MDR-P_02 & E5.MDR-P_01 We seek to minimise the overall amount of packaging that we use. Together with our suppliers and partners, we are working to design more sustainable packaging and take action to ensure that our packaging doesn’t end up as waste. The big amount of packaging we use for our finished products, if not collected and recycled properly, would end up in the soil, in the rivers and then in the seas and the oceans, which could have a negative impact on ecosystems, human health (toxicity) and society. Packaging waste and climate change are interconnected global challenges, and an area of focus for businesses and communities. 34% of our value chain emissions come from packaging materials, and to achieve our NetZeroby40 emissions goal we invest in sustainable packaging solutions. When we light-weight our packaging, incorporate more recycled and bio-based material, invest in local recycling programmes and increase our use of reusable packaging, we reduce both waste and our GHG emissions. Transparency E5.MDR-P_06 All our policies and commitments are publicly available via our website. By having the policies publicly available, we inform all our stakeholders of our goals and, where needed, we ensure their involvement, as happens with the ‘Packaging Waste Management Policy’, which applies to all Coca-Cola HBC employees, regardless of level and function. All our policies are translated in the local language of our countries and available on their local websites as well. E5.MDR-P_05 Additionally, every year, we perform an annual materiality survey, and we ask more than 500 stakeholders from different stakeholder groups across all our 29 markets and beyond to help us gauge our sustainability agenda and priorities. During our Annual Stakeholder Forums, we discuss the most important ESG areas for our business, and we set actions to improve both our stakeholder engagement and our performance. With suppliers, we have sustainable supply events where we gain their views on how to collaborate in the area of sustainability. Throughout the year, we proactively monitor and take into consideration the requirements by different ESR raters and frameworks; also we perform regular calls with sustainability experts of investors, banks and other financial institutions. E5.MDR-P_03 The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for establishing the principles governing the Group’s policies on social responsibility and the environment (including packaging waste) to guide management’s decisions and actions. All our policies, such as our Packaging Waste Management Policy, are owned and endorsed by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors. Sustainability SteerCo at ELT level is responsible for developing and implementing policies and executing the strategies to achieve the Company’s social responsibility and environmental goals. Further details regarding our sustainability governance are available in GOV-1 ‘The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies’ and on our website. E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy E5.MDR-A_01, 02, 03, 05 & E5-2_08 The objectives from the Packaging Waste Management Policy require continuous improvement and progress. Therefore, each year we strive to improve our performance by establishing new actions and working on the existing ones. Packaging can only be circular if it is recyclable. Since 2022, 100% of our primary packaging – PET, glass, aluminium and aseptic cartons – has been recyclable by design. We achieved this milestone three years ahead of our 2025 target. We are also leading industry efforts to introduce effective and efficient collection systems in all our markets. These include Deposit Return Schemes (DRS) in most of our EU markets. Therefore, we work with governments and industry to create a legal framework in which economic progress and diversion of material from landfill can be achieved. For the reporting year, we focused on different pillars, and we worked with specific focus on each of them. These pillars include: • Recyclability • Recycled packaging • Eliminate unnecessary packaging • Expand reusable (returnable) packaging • Packaging collection Stakeholder engagement E5-2_07 & E5-2_09 For the implementation of all actions, the contribution of our stakeholders was of utmost importance. Collective actions are important when systemic changes are required and we have established strong relationships with our main stakeholders. In December 2024, we welcomed 167 stakeholders, including our suppliers, to our Annual Stakeholder Forum, themed ‘Harnessing a Circular Economy for Packaging’, to explore what actions are needed to help deliver this objective. Additionally, together with our suppliers and partners, we are working to design more sustainable packaging and take action to ensure that our packaging doesn’t end up as waste. Each year, we host a supplier innovation day where we engage with key partners and potential new suppliers in the area of sustainable packaging. Previous to the reporting year, we have piloted and then scaled technologies that now allow us to replace plastic film on multipacks with carton solutions, such as the KeelClipTM roll-out, the cardboard holder for cans multipacks, and process non-food grade ‘hot washed’ PET flakes to produce high-quality food-grade rPET. Furthermore, since 2022, we started an ongoing collaboration with the University of Portsmouth, to investigate the potential commercialisation of technologies and processes for the enzymatic recycling of PET. This co-funded research project is exploring new applications for bio-recycling enzymes that could have the potential to promote packaging circularity at industrial scale. As already stated, in countries where effective collection systems do not exist, we are working together with peers and governments to design and implement new systems. Such cases are our alliance with the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA) in Nigeria and our partnership with the recycler BariQ in Egypt. A new approach to promotional displays has been piloted with our customer Żabka, a large chain of convenience stores in Poland. This new system only requires the customer to change the branding of our products in stores – not the display units themselves. This means that our customer retains a high-quality display, and we save money on transport and production costs. This collaborative initiative created commercial value for us and for our customers while reducing waste and cutting down on CO2 emissions. Lastly, we are members of the European Organisation for Packaging and the Environment – EUROPEN and UNESDA Soft Drinks Europe. EUROPEN is the voice of the packaging supply chain industry in Europe on topics related to packaging and the environment. This membership provides us the opportunity to understand the challenges of the wider packaging supply chain (from producers of packaging all the way to recyclers) and to work with governments and the European Commission around issues. The role of EUROPEN within the circular economy is to: a) continuously improve the environmental performance of packaging and packaged products all along the supply chain; b) promote the role, functionalities and benefits of packaging within all relevant EU policies; and c) achieve a harmonised policy framework and a functioning EU internal market for packaging and packaged products. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 120 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued In 2024, we updated our net zero roadmap with three important changes. We integrated our Egyptian operations into our 2030 and NetZeroby40 climate targets, we added new Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) targets, and we updated our mid-term emissions goal to follow the Well-Below-2-Degrees (WB2D) pathway until 2030 and then the 1.5 degrees pathway until 2040. Due to the FLAG targets requirements, we are moving our baseline year for the mid-term 2030 emissions reduction targets from 2017 to 2019. With all those changes, our NetZeroby40 target was formally validated by the SBTi. As the validation came in December 2024, in 2025 we will work to update the roadmap with all those changes and communicate transparently on our website. E1-3_01,03,04 Table 9: Mitigation actions per decarbonisation lever (action, GHG reductions) The actions per lever consider our updated net zero roadmap as approved by the SBTi in late December 2024. It includes Egypt acquisition, scope 3 accelerated climate scenario (well below 2 degree Celsius), and a new baseline year of 2019 (instead of 2017) as per the SBTi Net Zero guideline and the SBTi requirements for FLAG emissions, where 2017 cannot be used as a baseline year. We are going to perform carbon boundary review and recalculation of our emissions to include FLAG factors in 2025 and will update the roadmap accordingly. GHG emissions reduction Achieved (2024 vs. 2019) tCO2e Expected (2030 vs. 2019) tCO2e Time horizon for completing the action Year Relevant target (link to E1-4) Manufacturing (includes scope 1 fuels used, scope 1 losses of CO2 used for beverage carbonation, scope 2 electricity/heat/steam/hot water purchased, scope 3 CO2 in product (carbonation) and scope 3 CO2 produced in CHPs): • continue implementing and accelerating the energy-efficient projects in our plants (deployment of energy-saving projects, old equipment modernisation, and installation of heat pumps and electrification); • improving the CO2 yield in the plants; • accelerating usage of renewable and/or cleaner energy to replace fossil fuel in scope 1 or electricity/heat/steam/hot water in scope 2. +1kt +0.2% -198kt -46% 2030 Scope 1 and 2 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the 1.5 degree climate scenario (SBT) Transportation (includes scope 1 fuels used for own transport, both light and heavy, and scope 3 fuels used for outsourced logistics and transportation): • optimising the routes of light and heavy fleet, increasing logistics efficiency and increasing heavy trucks utilization; • shifting the existing fleet to innovative technologies and renewable or alternative fuels; • enhancing the strategic partnerships with our third-party logistics providers and joint investments (accelerate shifting to alternative fuels, route to market evolution, shifting of more volume to trains and applying industry innovations). +6kt +2% -8kt -3% 2030 Scope 1 and 2 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the 1.5 degree climate scenario (SBT); Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Packaging (includes scope 3 from all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging used for our products): • implementing our Pack Mix of the Future strategy (increasing recycled PET, moving from non-reusable one-way glass bottles to reusable glass bottles and providing more packageless solutions); • implementing decarbonisation of our primary and secondary packaging materials (aluminium cans, PET bottles, glass bottles, plastic labels, closures, stretch films, etc.). +271kt +21% -309kt -21% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Ingredients (includes scope 3 from all ingredients used for manufacturing of our beverages): • decarbonisation initiatives with our suppliers (engagement of farmers through co-development of farming pilots with suppliers, using regenerative agricultural practices); • continue reformulation of our products and moving to more lights and zero products in our beverage portfolio. +135kt +10% -243kt -17% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Drink equipment (includes scope 3 of electricity used by our customers for the drink equipment we provide, scope 1 for refrigerants’ losses from cold drink equipment): • accelerate the process of providing energy-efficient drink equipment to our customers and finding innovative solutions for further energy efficiency of our drink equipment; • greening the electricity grid mainly in Europe and with slower pace in Africa. -500kt -38% -929kt -63% 2030 Scope 3 decrease by 2030 vs. 2019 as per the well below 2 degree climate scenario Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 89 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-3_07,08, E1-1_04,06,08 As detailed in the EU Taxonomy section of this sustainability statement, our core economic activity is not yet included in the published Delegated Acts and is therefore not considered Taxonomy-eligible at this stage. However, we have assessed secondary activities that contribute to climate change mitigation. In 2024, 0.67% of total Capex was Taxonomy-aligned, also driven by activities connected to our climate transition plan. Specifically, CCM4.25 ‘Production of heat/cool using waste heat’ , CCM7.4 ‘Installation, maintenance, and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings’ and CE1.1 ‘Manufacture of plastic packaging goods’ contributed to aligned Capex. We have also assessed CCM6.5 ‘Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars, and light commercial vehicles’, which relates to the electrification of our fleet. Although a significant part of our fleet meets the TSC, due to challenges with the DNSH criteria, we will claim zero alignment to EU Taxonomy in 2024. Looking ahead, we expect to maintain or increase EU Taxonomy alignment as we continue to evaluate investment plans and operational expenditures in areas that could become eligible with the introduction of regulatory updates. Metrics and targets E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation E1.MDR-T_01,02,03,05,06,07, E1-4_01,24 NetZeroby40 Multiple climate scenarios have been taken into consideration, as outlined in SBM-3_08_09_10, helping assess external drivers, including policy developments and market shifts. In October 2021, we announced our NetZeroby40 transition plan, as part of our commitment to reach net zero absolute emissions across all scopes by 2040. This target is fully aligned with the 1.5 degree pathway, and it was approved by the SBTi in December 2024 (link to the SBTi website). NetZeroby40 is a carbon emissions roadmap including our base-year results, year-on-year emissions targets, 2030 near-term and our 2040 net zero targets. The plan’s main targets are: Overall net-zero target: • Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain by 2040. Near-term targets: • Energy & Industry: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 46.2% by 2030 from a 2019 base year. Coca- Cola HBC AG also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 27.5% within the same timeframe. • FLAG: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 33.3% by 2030 from a 2019 base year.* Coca- Cola HBC AG commits to no deforestation across its primary deforestation-linked commodities, with a target date of December 31, 2025. * The target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Long-term targets: • Energy & Industry: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 90% by 2040 from a 2019 base year. Coca- Cola HBC AG also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions by 90% within the same timeframe. • FLAG: Coca-Cola HBC AG commits to reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 72% by 2040 from a 2019 base year.* * This target includes FLAG emissions and removals. Science-based targets: please see above. Mission 2025 Developed in 2018, Mission 2025 is a set of sustainability commitments based on our stakeholder materiality matrix and aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their targets. It spans across six key focus areas to cover our entire value chain, including emissions reduction, with the following commitments: • Reduce direct carbon emissions ratio by 30% vs 2017. • 50% of our refrigerators in customer outlets will be energy efficient. • 50% of total energy used in our plants will be from renewable and clean sources. • 100% of the total electricity used in our plants in EU and Switzerland will be from renewable and clean source. E1.MDR-T_04 Our recently approved by the SBTi targets for reducing scope 1 and 2 and scope 3 emissions have organisation-wide coverage. We are covering 100% of our operational activities.E1.MDR-T_10 As previously mentioned, our climate change commitments cover our entire Company, all scope 1, 2, 3, and we aim to reach net zero emissions across the entire value chain by 2040 as per the 1.5 degree scenario, as well as our intermediate emissions reduction target by 2030 is approved by the SBTi. E1.MDR-T_08 The Group’s annual roadmap of net zero target by 2040 is shown in the net zero chart in the strategic part of the IAR, section ‘License to operate’, page 25. Mission 2025 targets related to climate and energy are disclosed in the Strategic Report, ‘Key performance indicators’ section on pages 33 to 34. Those targets don’t have interim targets, but only annual roadmaps at Group level disaggregated further down per BU. E1.MDR-T_09, E1-4_22 At the end of 2020, we set and received approval by the SBTi of our Science-Based Targets by 2030, as our previous SBT period-closing was end of 2020. Those targets are reported in the 2024 IAR (as an old roadmap): Reduction of absolute scope 1, 2 emissions by 55% by 2030 vs 2017 baseline following the 1.5 degree global warming scenario and reduction of scope 3 emissions by 21% by 2030 vs. 2017. So far, we have achieved 31% reduction of our operational emissions vs 2017 (excluding Egypt). Those approved by the SBTi targets are without the integrated new acquisition, Coca-Cola HBC Egypt operations, as its integration happened in 2022, after targets submission and approval in 2021.For the newest targets, approved by the SBTi in December 2024, please refer to previous page (Net Zero targets and FLAG targets). We report as per the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. We are covering 100% of our operational activities. We account and report all seven GHG emissions and report those as equivalent to CO2. Under scope 2 emissions, we are reporting market-based GHG emissions and separately the location-based scope 2 emissions. Our climate targets are also aligned with the UN SDG Target 13.1, i.e. strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries, as well as Targets 7.2 and 7.3 on increased renewable energy and energy efficiency. We do not use any carbon removal nor neutralisation or off-setting/insetting methodologies to achieve our GHG internal annual roadmap targets as per the SBTi guidelines. E1.MDR-T_11 The Group sets measurable, outcome-oriented and time-bound targets on material sustainability matters through a structured and inclusive process. Stakeholder engagement plays a pivotal role in this process, particularly through our Annual Stakeholder Forums, where key discussions are taken, and the insights gathered are integrated into the formulation of our targets. Additionally, the Group takes into account the requirements of ESG raters, including those of our investors, ensuring that our targets are aligned with their evolving expectations. The UN SDGs also form a crucial foundation for the Group’s target- setting process, guiding our efforts in addressing global sustainability challenges. Through this comprehensive approach, the Group ensures that its targets are relevant, ambitious and responsive to both stakeholder input and global standards. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 90 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1.MDR-T_12 As per the GHG Protocol, the recalculation policy for base-year emissions and previous years’ emissions is applicable in case of the following changes: 1) significant change in calculation methodology, 2) significant changeinemissionsconversion factors (LCAs), 3) investment, divestment, mergers and acquisitions with significant impact to business financials and emissions (>3% of the volume), 4) significant change in the business growth rate or activity, and 5) mistake or calculation gap found which is bigger than 3%. In 2024, we have not recalculated our emissions. Emission factors are provided to us by the Institute of Energy and Environment (IFEU) assigned by The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) and used as the emissions factors data source to TCCC and their bottling system for regular updates (update as of January 2024). E1.MDR-T_13 In 2024, we reached 18% reduction of our absolute value chain emissions versus 2017 which is the fourth year of meeting our annual roadmap (please see the Mission 2025 performance table in the strategic part of the IAR: we overachieved our target on percentage energy-efficient coolers, we continued with 100% renewable and clean electricity in our EU and Swiss plants, and we overachieved our percentage renewable and clean energy across Coca-Cola HBC plants.) As part of our performance review, each target is monitored regularly (monthly or quarterly). We report the progress in a specific dashboard. There the status versus the target is colour-coded and disclosed as difference (absolute and in %). Performance review includes setting corrective measures and follow up. E1-4_01-17 Table 10: GHG emission reduction targets Scope Baseline year Baseline GHG emissions Current Reporting Year Value Target year Target reduction: % of baseline GHG emissions Target % of scope 1, 2 and 3 Scope 2 location / market-based Coverage of GHG (Year) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (Year) (%) Old SBT target (by 2024): reduce GHG emissions from direct operations 55% by 2030 vs 2017 (CCH excl. Egypt) 100% scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 market-based Scope 1 and 2 combined 2017 562,608 390,622 2030 55% Old SBT target (by 2024): reduce scope 3 GHG emissions 21% by 2030 vs 2017 (CCH excl. Egypt) 100% scope 3 n/a Scope 3 only 2017 4,399,075 3,684,002 2030 21% Revised target (from 2025) Energy and Industry: reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 46.2% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 market-based Scope 1 and 2 combined (scope 2 market-based) 2019 545,386 (to be adjusted in 2025 after full carbon inventory completion) Will be reported in 2025 2030 46.2% Revised target (from 2025): reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions 27.5% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% scope 3 n/a Scope 3 only 2019 4,622,844 (to be adjusted in 2025 after full carbon inventory completion) Will be reported in 2025 2030 27.5% Revised target (from 2025) FLAG: reduce absolute scope 3 FLAG GHG emissions 33.3% by 2030 from a 2019 base year 100% FLAG part of scope 3 n/a FLAG scope 3 only 2019 536,389 (to be adjusted in 2025) Will be reported in 2025 2030 33.3% Our targets refer to all GHG types according to the SBTi methodology (e.g., CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) and they correspond to gross emissions. Our old roadmap and targets are based on the approved SBT in 2021 when FLAG targets and Net Zero Guidelines were not available. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 91 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Our revised roadmap and targets are based on the formally approved by the SBTi in December 2024 net zero target by 2040 and SBT including FLAG by 2030. E1-4_18 Within our recently approved NetZeroby40 targets, we have included all relevant emissions from all our entities from our financial reporting, following the materiality threshold as per the GHG Protocol Standard. We also report 100% of emissions from our joint ventures as there we have operational control. Our NetZeroby40 target was formally approved by the SBTi in December 2024. In 2024 we report as per the old science- based target by 2030, also approved by the SBTi where Egyptian operations are excluded as they were acquired in 2022, after setting the target. E1-4_19 We have decreased our absolute direct emissions by 58% and reduced our absolute total value chain emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 31% from 2010 to the end of 2024. All our emissions in those years have been assured by an external organisation, and the assurance statement is available in each of our Integrated Annual Reports published on the website. E1-4_20 Our baseline values are with primary data, assured externally. 2017 was selected as we developed our Mission 2025 in 2018. Now 2019 is selected as per the FLAG requirements and considering the most credible data for our Egyptian operations which were acquired in 2022. We follow GHGP, and we have a recalculation policy to recalculate baseline year as required by the GHG Protocol. E1-4_21 The only occasion where we have slightly modified our baseline year was regarding the development of our FLAG targets. To meet the new SBTi recommendation for FLAG targets, that baseline year should not be older than 2018, we had to change our original 2017 baseline to 2019 for compliance purposes. Furthermore, there were no credible emissions data for our Egyptian operations related to the years prior to 2019. E1-5 Energy consumption and mix E1-5_01-15 Table 11: Energy Consumption and mix Energy consumption and mix 2024 (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products (million \MWh) 0 (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products (million MWh) 0.47 (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas (million MWh) 1.11 (4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources (million MWh) 0 (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from fossil sources (million MWh) 0.36 (6) Total fossil energy consumption (million MWh) (calculated as the sum of lines 1 to 5) 1.94 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (%) 76% (7) Consumption from nuclear sources (million MWh) 0 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption (%) 0 (8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) (million MWh) 0 (9) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from renewable sources (million MWh) 0.62 (10) The consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy (million MWh) 0 (11) Total renewable energy consumption (million MWh) (calculated as the sum of lines 8 to 10) 0.62 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (%) 24% Total energy consumption (million MWh) (calculated as the sum of lines 6, 7 and 11) 2.56 Energy intensity per revenue: 0.2379 kWh/€ revenue. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 92 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-6 Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions E1-6_01-07,08,09,10,11,12,13,17,18,19,20,21,22,24,25,28 Table 12: Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Gross emissions 2024 Scope 1 Gross scope 1 GHG emissions (in metric tonnes of CO2e) 342,742 % of scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes 0 Biogenic emissions of CO2 from the combustion or bio-degradation of biomass (include emissions of other types of GHG (in particular CH4 and N2O)) 0 Scope 2 Gross scope 2 GHG location-based emissions (in metric tonnes of CO2e) 342,047 % of gross scope 2 GHG location-based emissions 7.1% Gross scope 2 GHG market-based emissions (in metric tonnes of CO2e) 111,670 % of gross scope 2 GHG market-based emissions 2.4% % of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of energy bundled with attributes about energy generation in relation to scope 2 GHG emissions 42.8% % of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of unbundled energy attribute claims in relation to scope 2 GHG emissions 57.2% Biogenic emissions of CO2 carbon from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass (include emissions of other types of GHG (in particular CH4 and N2O)) 0 Scope 3 Gross scope 3 GHG emissions for each significant category (in metric tonnes of CO2eq) 4,135,467 % of emissions calculated using primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain partners 100% Biogenic emissions of CO2 carbon from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass that occur in upstream value chain (include emissions of other types of GHG (in particular CH4 and N2O)) 0 Gross emissions 2024 Biogenic emissions of CO2 carbon from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass that occur in downstream value chain (include emissions of other types of GHG (in particular CH4 and N2O)) 0 Emissions of CO2 that occur in the lifecycle of biomass other than from combustion or biodegradation (such as GHG emissions from processing or transporting biomass) 0 Totals Total GHG emissions with location-based scope 2 4,820,256 Total GHG emissions with market-based scope 2 4,589,879 E1-6_02 Table 13: Gross emissions percentages Gross emissions percentages 2024 Gross scope 1 emissions from the consolidated accounting group (parent and subsidiaries) 100% Gross scope 2 emissions from the consolidated accounting group (parent and subsidiaries) 100% Gross scope 1 emissions from investees* 0% Gross scope 2 emissions from investees* 0% * Associates, joint ventures or unconsolidated subsidiaries that are not fully consolidated in the financial statements of the consolidated accounting group, as well as contractual arrangements that are joint arrangements not structured through an entity (i.e., jointly controlled operations and assets), for which it has operational control. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 93 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued UNESDA Soft Drinks Europe enables us to talk with one voice and discuss with governments and the EU as a whole matters relating specifically to the soft drinks sector. With UNESDA, we also have set commitments for circular packaging which the corporate members have committed to achieving, thus enabling improved overall sectoral approach to circular packaging, including recycled content targets, collection and recyclability ahead of legal requirements. Table 27: List of key actions and resources in relation to circular economy Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Time horizon of action completion Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Quantitative and qualitative information Recyclability – 100% of our primary packaging and using alternative packaging materials Maintained KeelClipTM as a carton-based solution that removes plastic shrink film previously used to hold can multi-packs together, in 23 countries, helping us to reduce our plastic packaging footprint 2024 – Ongoing To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and reduce waste (Avoid 2,300 tonnes of plastic shrink annually) Supports the delivery of our packaging waste management policy objectives: • Innovate to minimize the amount of packaging that we use, while ensuring that the packaging that we do use is as sustainable as possible • Provide sustainable packaging options meeting consumers’ needs Production and packaging: Maintain solutions and continue innovate Own operations & Downstream Europe (23 countries) Consumers, Customers, Communities Progress as per the plan Maintained QFlex carton- based solution that removes plastic shrink film previously used to hold large multi- packs cans together in Ireland and Northern Ireland, helping us to reduce our plastic packaging footprint 2024 – Ongoing Ireland, Northern Ireland Lite Pac launch & expansion in other markets 2024 – Ongoing Removal of 135 tonnes of plastic from our supply chain annually Austria Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 121 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Time horizon of action completion Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Quantitative and qualitative information Recycled Packaging In-house rPET production and transitioning to 100% rPET locally produced portfolio 2024 - Ongoing To reduce virgin and increased recycled plastic content in our packaging Supports the delivery of our packaging waste management policy objective: • Continue to increase recycled content in our primary beverage packaging, with an emphasis on PET beverage bottles • accomplishment of the Mission Target 2025 to 35% rPET usage Production & Packaging Own operations & Downstream Switzerland Italy Austria Romania Republic of Ireland Northern Ireland Consumers, Customers, Communities 23.8% compared to 16.1% (in 2023); 45.9% in EU countries and Switzerland Eliminate unnecessary packaging Light-weight our primary packaging (Aluminum Cans) 2024 - 2024 To reduce weight of materials used (decrease emissions) Reduction of waste, NetZeroby40 Design optimisation to reduce the weight of Cans bodies and ends Upstream, Downstream Ireland, Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Serbia Customers, Consumers, Suppliers Can body:-1.9% average reduction; Can end: – 9.8% average reduction in material Light-weight our primary packaging (Preforms) and Test in 5 new markets before introducing it to our 2025 portfolio 2024 - 2024 To reduce weight of materials used (decrease emissions) Reduction of waste, NetZeroby40 Design optimisation to reduce weight of preform Upstream, Downstream Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Poland and Baltics Customers, Consumers, Suppliers Average reduction in material is under calculation 2025 2025 Replacement of tethered closures with lighter option 2024 - 2024 To reduce weight of HDPE used by 300 tonnes and to decrease CO2 emissions by 600 tonnes Reduction of waste, NetZeroby40 Design optimisation to reduce weight Upstream, Downstream Ireland, Italy, Bulgaria, Austria, Hungary, Romania, Bosnia, Czech, Lithuania, Poland, Serbia, Cyprus Customers, Consumers, Suppliers 0.3% reduction in closure weight Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 122 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Time horizon of action completion Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Quantitative and qualitative information Label height reductions 2024 2025 2025 To reduce weight of plastic used by 200 tonnes Reduction of waste, NetZeroby40 Design optimisation to reduce weight Upstream, Downstream Greece, Cyprus, Poland & Italy Customers, Consumers, Suppliers Progress made as per the planned activities Expand Reusable (Returnable) Packaging Usage of returnable and refillable glass, and dispensers such as fountains or freestyle machines 2024 - Ongoing To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and reduce waste; Decrease emissions in scope 3 and help achieving our net zero emissions goal Expand Reusable Packaging: • Deliver programmes to increase reusable packaging (returnable and dispensed) formats • Reduce packaging amount in absolute terms. Continue the implementation of Pack Mix of the Future initiatives, focused on expanding RGB across markets setting our vision for profitable growth while reducing CO2 footprint Activated Packageless pilot in leading university in Italy. Replicable programme envisioning packageless campus Downstream Europe and Africa Consumers, Customers, Communities Refillables 12.7% in 2024 from 11.7% in 2023* Packageless stable at 4.3%* *Transactions in NARTD excluding N. Macedonia Increase packaging collection Continue to actively engage with governments and peer companies to establish and ensure that effective operation of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) Organizations, including Packaging Recovery Organizations (PRO) and Deposit Return Schemes (DRS). 2024 - Ongoing To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and decrease plastic waste Supports the delivery of our packaging waste management policy objectives: • Work through cross- sector packaging associations to develop and support effective waste management and packaging collection solutions • Enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of established post- consumer packaging waste management organisations Participated in the supervisory board of EPR organizations in 16 of our countries, providing strategic direction and support Downstream Bosnia, Bulgaria, Czech, Estonia, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, North Macedonia, Poland, Ireland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland Communities, Governments, Customers, Peer Companies Progress made in line with roadmap plans to achieve our 75% collection target by 2025. We ensured ongoing implementation of our policy objective to ensure effective packaging waste management activities are in place across our markets. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 123 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Time horizon of action completion Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Quantitative and qualitative information We support well-designed deposit return schemes (DRS) in our European markets, wherever an effective alternative doesn’t already exist. As of 2024, eight of our markets now have DRS in place to assist in the design and implementation of new national DRS in each of these countries. 2024 2028 By 2028 To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) & Decrease plastic waste Fulfill our Mission 2025 target of 75% collection of primary packaging by 2025 Deliver EU collection targets of 90% separate collection for PET and beverage cans by 2029 Played a critical role in the successful launch of new DRS in Romania, Ireland and Hungary Established a new DRS operator in Poland (Kaucja.pl) with CCHBC as a shareholder to support the successful launch of DRS in Poland in 2025 Made preparations for the successful Jan 2025 launch of DRS in Austria Actively participated in a cross- industry coalition that offered advice and strategic input to the Greek government on DRS, while developing a business plan for the application for a DRS operator licence Downstream Croatia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Republic of Ireland, Romania and Slovakia. We are engaging proactively in Austria, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Greece, Moldova, Northern Ireland, Poland, Serbia and Slovenia Communities, Governments, Customers, Peer Companies 2024 roadmap and plans implemented (including launches in Ireland, Romania and Hungary) A clear action plan for 2025 aligned and approved by senior management (including DRS launches in Austria, Poland and Greece) Development of EPR schemes in countries where it is not mandatory in order to reduce the downstream pollution 2024 2028 2028 To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and reduce waste, increase packaging collection Fulfill our Mission 2025 target of 75% collection of primary packaging by 2025 We continued to support the work of the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA) and other packaging collection projects Open the first-ever Coca-Cola System-owned and operated packaging collection hub Downstream Nigeria Consumers, Customers, Communities, Peer companies Progress made in Egypt and Nigeria as per the plan Continue working with BariQ in Egypt Egypt Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 124 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-A_04 As seen, we have established a comprehensive action plan and implemented several actions related to circular economy and packaging. By those actions, we demonstrate our support to nature and to people independently on whether they are harmed or not. In 2024, no negative incident related to circular economy has been recorded. Financial Resources E5.MDR-A_06, 07, 09, 11 Specifically, to support our actions related to the expansion of reusable/refillable packaging, we make investments every year for the renewal or increase of the returnable containers fleet. In 2024, this investment reached €59 million. We also invested €9.5 million in production infrastructure, mainly for new returnable glass production lines in Italy and Nigeria. In addition, we invest significant amounts to support our action plan around the increase of recycled content in our packaging, specifically by expanding the use of recycled PET. Building on the significant in-house rPET production infrastructure investments we have made in the past few years in Italy, Poland and Romania, we allocated €30 million in 2024 to support the higher cost of recycled PET compared with virgin PET. The Capex and cost of packaging materials mentioned above are reflected in our ‘Financial Statements’, in the cash flow statement and the income statement, respectively. Moving ahead, we will continue to support our circular economy action plan as required. Specifically for 2025, we plan to continue our investments in production infrastructure in Italy to support the RGB expansion in the market, and we will allocate significant Capex on returnable containers across our markets. We also expect that the higher spend for recycled PET compared with virgin PET will increase further to approximately €60 million, as we accelerate our performance against our Mission 2025 target, but also due to the EU requirement for a 25% minimum recycled content on PET beverage bottles. To support our actions, financial resources must be secured through targeted allocation. Our sustainable finance approach underpins the Group’s ability to align funding strategies with sustainability commitments, while supporting the UN SDGs and the EU Environmental Objectives. Financing mechanisms include a diverse range of instruments, ensuring flexibility in meeting both current and future financial requirements for action plans. Metrics and targets E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3_01 We have set voluntary targets that promote circular economy, and they are designed to address both resource inflows and outflows, and the lifecycle of products and materials. E5-3_02 Our objective is to keep our primary packaging 100% recyclable by design. Therefore, we have established a target related to circular product design, which is already achieved. We have made our primary packaging 100% fully recyclable three years ahead of the expected timeline and 2025 target. For us, recyclability is calculated as technical recyclability by design, and here we consider all beverage packaging which is made of glass, aluminium/steel, PET and aseptic cartons. All of those are able to be recycled fully. We consider as technical recyclability by design any reuse or recycle option for those materials. In the definition, we do not take into consideration the packaging collection rates in every country. E5-3_03 & E5-3_04 Our resource inflows targets focus on the continuous improvement of recycled material use. They have a double role, since by increasing their recycled content, the rates of primary raw materials decline. The targets refer to the recycled PET used for plastic bottles. Furthermore, we aim to remove an additional 2,800 tonnes of our light-weight packaging by 2025 compared with 2023 data. E5-3_05 & E5-3_09 As already stated, we aim to source all our paper- based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources. Now, 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) we use are FSC®-certified. Driven by the materiality results, and focusing on the material topics, our targets address the prevention layer (including the reduction) of the waste hierarchy pyramid, as well as recycling and recovering. Returnable glass bottles address reuse layer of the waste hierarchy. E5.MDR-T_01 The majority of those targets are connected with the Packaging Waste Management Policy and reflect total Group targets. To track our performance and our contribution to the final target, every year we set a yearly target as an annual milestone. E5.MDR-T_12 For our targets we use actual data to report the progress, e.g., for recyclability we use the technical by design data of our primary packaging materials (glass, PET, aluminium/steel can, paper, aseptic paper). Our time horizons could be an annual goal aligned with the Business Planning process (BP), mid-term targets aligned with our long-range plan (LRP) and business objectives, or long-term targets such as NetZeroby40 aligned with the external trends. All those targets, however, are disaggregated to annual roadmaps, and our regular performance review is two-pronged: a) versus the annual roadmap; and b) versus the direction of the target year. On this way, we are able to set actions and correct course if needed. E5-3_01 & E5-3_09 & E5.MDR-T_02 – E5.MDR-T_08 Table 28 below provides further details on each target, including their characteristics (targets’ level, their units, their time-boundaries, the progress made over the baseline measurements), illustrating how they contribute to our overall sustainability goals and circular economy principles. Targets are voluntary. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 125 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-6_03 Table 14: Gross emissions absolutes Emissions category Gross emissions (tCO2e) 2024 Greenhouse gas emissions from operations (Total scope 1) 342,742 CO2e from energy used in plants (scope 1) 196,244 CO2e from fuel used in Company vehicles 84,800 Coolant emissions from Cold Drink Equipment (CO2e ) 4,352 CO2e for product carbonation (CO2 losses) 50,582 CO2e from remote properties’ fuel consumption 6,764 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope 2 market-based) 111,670 CO2e from electricity used in plants (scope 2 market-based) 73,258 CO2e from electricity used in plants (scope 2 location-based) 301,897 CO2e from supplied heating and cooling (scope 2) 34,142 CO2e from electricity consumption in remote properties, market-based 4,270 CO2e from electricity consumption in remote properties, location-based 6,007 Total emissions scope 2 market-based 111,670 Total emissions scope 2 location-based 342,047 Total emissions (scope 1 and 2 market-based) 454,413 Total emissions (scope 1 and 2 location-based) 684,789 Emissions category Gross emissions (tCO2e) 2024 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) 4,135,467 CO2e from electricity use of cold drink equipment 806,639 CO2e embedded in packaging (Cradle-to-Gate) 1,549,287 CO2e from sugar and Juice concentrates 1,457,043 CO2e from third-party transports 193,241 CO2e from flights 2,595 CO2e from product carbonation 102,799 CO2e from Remote Properties fuel consumption 5,922 CO2e from electricity consumption in rented and outsourced Remote Properties market-based 6,315 CO2e from CO2 production in CHPs 11,626 GHG emissions absolute and intensity (scope 1, 2 and 3 – scope 2 market-based) 4,589,879 GHG emissions absolute and intensity (scope 1, 2 and 3 – scope 2 location-based) 4,820,256 Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 94 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-6_04,05,26,27,29 Table 15: Scope 3 categories (numbers don’t include any FLAG emissions, as we are planning to introduce their reporting from 2025 onwards). Significant categories of scope 3 emissions Criterion for significance (Magnitude, financial spend, influence, related transition risks, stakeholder views, other Scope 3 emissions magnitude (tCO2e) Relevance as per materiality threshold (Y/N) (E1-6_26, 27) Reporting boundaries considered, calculation methods for estimating GHG emissions, calculation tools applied (E1-6_29) 1. Purchased goods and services Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 3,017,955 Y Average data method. For emission quantification, we multiply the quantities of purchased materials by the respective ingredients/packaging GHG emissions factors. We use Ecoinvent, World Food Database and IFEU LCA assigned by TCCC among others as the source of emission factors. In the near future, we expect this category emission accounting to move from current method to a hybrid data method and use supplier- specific emissions factor where available and reliable. In 2024, we used specific emission factor for our own in-house produced rPET. The factor was developed based on the LCA prepared by IFEU independent experts. In addition, for our main primary packaging materials, as PET, aluminum for cans, glass for returnable and one-way bottles, we are including in the calculation recycling content of materials used (recycled content comes from our suppliers). In 2024 we enhanced our reporting capability by automating the report of the raw and packaging materials used in production. During this automation process we improved data accuracy. We are looking in the future to split category 3.1. Ingredients and packaging emissions based on respective LCA to three main parts: materials upstream activity, materials transport to Coca-Cola HBC facility and materials End-of-Life. 2. Capital goods Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N Not reported in Scope 3 as this category is below materiality threshold, based on The Coca-Cola Company Materiality Analysis done in 2023 based on biggest bottlers’ input data (including CCHBC) 3. Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or 2) Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N Referring to latest Materiality Assessment done by TCCC 4. Upstream transportation and distribution Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 193,241 Y Distance-based method. Under this category, we quantify emissions captured from mileage driven by third-party fleet, including product Haulage and Distribution, multiplying by the GHG factor (emissions based on distance from the calculation tool of WRI-WBCSD GHG Protocol). GHG emission factors include Tank-To-Wheel emissions. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 95 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Significant categories of scope 3 emissions Criterion for significance (Magnitude, financial spend, influence, related transition risks, stakeholder views, other Scope 3 emissions magnitude (tCO2e) Relevance as per materiality threshold (Y/N) (E1-6_26, 27) Reporting boundaries considered, calculation methods for estimating GHG emissions, calculation tools applied (E1-6_29) 5. Waste generated in operations Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N Not reported in Scope 3 as this category is below materiality threshold, based on The Coca-Cola Company Materiality Analysis done in 2023 based on biggest bottlers’ input data (including CCHBC). 6. Business travel Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 2,595 Y Distance-based method. Since 2018, we report GHG emissions from flights related to all Company employees. We receive emission data from the travel agencies, they use GHG factors based on the distance travelled and the travel class (from GHG Protocol). GHG factors used include Tank-To-Wheel emissions. 7. Employee commuting Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N We have company owned and leased fleet, including management and functional cars in addition to the company owned and leased heavy fleet (trucks, vans, etc.) used for the product transportation to customers and reported under Scope 1 (mobile combustion). Management and functional cars are used by employees also to commute between home and office. Fuels and energy used for this activity is reported as part of Scope 1 (mobile combustion) and that’s why not included here (to avoid double reporting). Rest of the employee commuting is below materiality threshold, based on The Coca-Cola Company Materiality Analysis done in 2023. 8. Upstream leased assets Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 12,237 Y Average data method. The emissions captured under this category are emissions from electricity and fuel used in rented and outsourced Remote Properties. We use location-based emission factors for electricity used in rented and outsourced Remote Properties. 9. Downstream transportation and distribution Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N These emissions are moved to category 3.4 as 3rd party transportation and distribution services (as they are contracted and paid by the company). 10. Processing of sold products Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N We sell Ready-to-Drink products, no processing required by consumers. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 96 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Significant categories of scope 3 emissions Criterion for significance (Magnitude, financial spend, influence, related transition risks, stakeholder views, other Scope 3 emissions magnitude (tCO2e) Relevance as per materiality threshold (Y/N) (E1-6_26, 27) Reporting boundaries considered, calculation methods for estimating GHG emissions, calculation tools applied (E1-6_29) 11. Use of sold products Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 102,799 Y Primary data method. In this category we include carbon dioxide used for our product carbonation. We quantify carbon dioxide based on the product formulations and multiply by the GHG factor. In case of carbon dioxide, the GHG emission factor is equal to 1. 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N End of life treatment is included in the CO2 emission factor of packaging materials and therefore reported in category 3.1. 13. Downstream leased assets Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 806,639 Y Average data method. In this category we include emissions from electricity consumption related to downstream leased assets, which are drink equipment placed in the customers’ outlets in all our markets. We receive the information on electricity consumption by type of equipment from producers. We know number and type of the units in each market and multiply electricity consumption by the number of units for each type. Subsequently, the total electricity consumption is multiplied by the country (location-based) grid factor taken from the IEA database. In essence, electricity consumption is with primary data and the grid factor is country average location-based. 14. Franchises Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N We do not operate any franchises. 15. Investments Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N We do not operate with investments Other upstream Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N No other upstream activities are operated by the company. Other downstream Magnitude/ Materiality to Corporate Carbon emissions inventory 0 N No other downstream activities are operated by the company. In the above table all CCH subsidiaries and parent companies are considered. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 97 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E1-6_06 Scope 1 (Direct emissions in direct operations): 7.5% Scope 2 (Indirect emissions in direct operations (purchased)): 2.4% Scope 3 (Indirect emissions up/downstream): 90.1% E1-6_14 There were no significant changes in the definition of our upstream and downstream value chain related to emissions reporting. E1-6_15 The methodologies and significant assumptions for calculation GHG emissions were as follows: Scope 1: in our GHG emission factors are included: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. We use Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. CO2e factors: mobile stationary combustion: GHGP tool; Refrigerants: IPCC 2021. Scope 2 includes the activities under our operational control, described in our Environmental Whitebook. In our GHG emissions factor are included: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. Scope 3: in our GHG emissions factors are included: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. We use Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. CO2e factors: mobile and stationary combustion: GHG tool; electricity: from IEA location-based; Ingredients/Pack materials: LCA studies made by TCCC. We are working also with the Coca-Cola System team on the Supplier Specific Emission Factors in collaboration with key commodities suppliers, which will enable us to define value chain emissions brought to the business in a much more accurate way in the future. This will create clear visibility of the common interest projects and initiatives with suppliers and partners to decarbonise the business and reach our long-term climate goal – NetZeroby40. E1-6_23 Coca-Cola HBC is using a range of contractual instruments for sale and purchase of energy across the countries in which it operates. Sourcing methods employed include purchasing from an on-site installation (on-site PPA), and unbundled procurement of energy attribute certificates (EACs), while the main tracking instruments used are Guarantees of Origins (GOs) or contracts. For more information on the contractual instruments per country of operation, you may refer to the 2024 CDP Corporate Questionnaire. E1-6_30,31 Table 16: GHG emissions intensity (total GHG emissions per net revenue) GHG emissions intensity (total GHG emissions per net revenue) Scope 1, 2 (Location-based) and Scope 3 Scope 1, 2 (Market-based) and Scope 3 2024 2024 448.2 g CO2e/EUR 426.8 g CO2e/EUR E1-6_32,35 Table 17: Net revenue amounts for GHG intensity Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity €10,754.4 million Net revenue (other) €0.0 million Total net revenue (in financial statements) €10,754.4 million Emissions intensity is calculated in grammes CO2e per litre of produced beverage and in 2024 it is 287.32g/lpb (all 29 countries included). E1-7 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits E1-7_01 Coca-Cola HBC is not currently using any carbon removal or neutralisation or off-setting/insetting methodologies to meet our GHG roadmap targets. As per the SBTi guidelines, carbon removal measures are not permitted at this stage. We commenced the purchase of a small amount of carbon removals in 2023 and 2024, we accumulate them but we don’t use them in our carbon inventory as per the SBTi guidelines. At present, we are still gaining knowledge on carbon removals, and we plan to develop a comprehensive removal strategy once the formal guidelines on removals are finalised. E1-7_02 We plan to purchase and cancel carbon credits for neutralisation at the end of our net zero target (2040). E1-7_20 We intend to neutralise any residual emissions with permanent carbon removals at the end of the target. E1-7_21 No public claims on GHG neutrality involving use of carbon credits were made in 2024. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 98 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Time horizon of action completion Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Quantitative and qualitative information Label height reductions 2024 2025 2025 To reduce weight of plastic used by 200 tonnes Reduction of waste, NetZeroby40 Design optimisation to reduce weight Upstream, Downstream Greece, Cyprus, Poland & Italy Customers, Consumers, Suppliers Progress made as per the planned activities Expand Reusable (Returnable) Packaging Usage of returnable and refillable glass, and dispensers such as fountains or freestyle machines 2024 - Ongoing To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and reduce waste; Decrease emissions in scope 3 and help achieving our net zero emissions goal Expand Reusable Packaging: • Deliver programmes to increase reusable packaging (returnable and dispensed) formats • Reduce packaging amount in absolute terms. Continue the implementation of Pack Mix of the Future initiatives, focused on expanding RGB across markets setting our vision for profitable growth while reducing CO2 footprint Activated Packageless pilot in leading university in Italy. Replicable programme envisioning packageless campus Downstream Europe and Africa Consumers, Customers, Communities Refillables 12.7% in 2024 from 11.7% in 2023* Packageless stable at 4.3%* *Transactions in NARTD excluding N. Macedonia Increase packaging collection Continue to actively engage with governments and peer companies to establish and ensure that effective operation of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) Organizations, including Packaging Recovery Organizations (PRO) and Deposit Return Schemes (DRS). 2024 - Ongoing To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and decrease plastic waste Supports the delivery of our packaging waste management policy objectives: • Work through cross- sector packaging associations to develop and support effective waste management and packaging collection solutions • Enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of established post- consumer packaging waste management organisations Participated in the supervisory board of EPR organizations in 16 of our countries, providing strategic direction and support Downstream Bosnia, Bulgaria, Czech, Estonia, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, North Macedonia, Poland, Ireland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland Communities, Governments, Customers, Peer Companies Progress made in line with roadmap plans to achieve our 75% collection target by 2025. We ensured ongoing implementation of our policy objective to ensure effective packaging waste management activities are in place across our markets. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 123 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Time horizon of action completion Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Quantitative and qualitative information We support well-designed deposit return schemes (DRS) in our European markets, wherever an effective alternative doesn’t already exist. As of 2024, eight of our markets now have DRS in place to assist in the design and implementation of new national DRS in each of these countries. 2024 2028 By 2028 To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) & Decrease plastic waste Fulfill our Mission 2025 target of 75% collection of primary packaging by 2025 Deliver EU collection targets of 90% separate collection for PET and beverage cans by 2029 Played a critical role in the successful launch of new DRS in Romania, Ireland and Hungary Established a new DRS operator in Poland (Kaucja.pl) with CCHBC as a shareholder to support the successful launch of DRS in Poland in 2025 Made preparations for the successful Jan 2025 launch of DRS in Austria Actively participated in a cross- industry coalition that offered advice and strategic input to the Greek government on DRS, while developing a business plan for the application for a DRS operator licence Downstream Croatia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Republic of Ireland, Romania and Slovakia. We are engaging proactively in Austria, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Greece, Moldova, Northern Ireland, Poland, Serbia and Slovenia Communities, Governments, Customers, Peer Companies 2024 roadmap and plans implemented (including launches in Ireland, Romania and Hungary) A clear action plan for 2025 aligned and approved by senior management (including DRS launches in Austria, Poland and Greece) Development of EPR schemes in countries where it is not mandatory in order to reduce the downstream pollution 2024 2028 2028 To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and reduce waste, increase packaging collection Fulfill our Mission 2025 target of 75% collection of primary packaging by 2025 We continued to support the work of the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA) and other packaging collection projects Open the first-ever Coca-Cola System-owned and operated packaging collection hub Downstream Nigeria Consumers, Customers, Communities, Peer companies Progress made in Egypt and Nigeria as per the plan Continue working with BariQ in Egypt Egypt Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 124 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-A_04 As seen, we have established a comprehensive action plan and implemented several actions related to circular economy and packaging. By those actions, we demonstrate our support to nature and to people independently on whether they are harmed or not. In 2024, no negative incident related to circular economy has been recorded. Financial Resources E5.MDR-A_06, 07, 09, 11 Specifically, to support our actions related to the expansion of reusable/refillable packaging, we make investments every year for the renewal or increase of the returnable containers fleet. In 2024, this investment reached €59 million. We also invested €9.5 million in production infrastructure, mainly for new returnable glass production lines in Italy and Nigeria. In addition, we invest significant amounts to support our action plan around the increase of recycled content in our packaging, specifically by expanding the use of recycled PET. Building on the significant in-house rPET production infrastructure investments we have made in the past few years in Italy, Poland and Romania, we allocated €30 million in 2024 to support the higher cost of recycled PET compared with virgin PET. The Capex and cost of packaging materials mentioned above are reflected in our ‘Financial Statements’, in the cash flow statement and the income statement, respectively. Moving ahead, we will continue to support our circular economy action plan as required. Specifically for 2025, we plan to continue our investments in production infrastructure in Italy to support the RGB expansion in the market, and we will allocate significant Capex on returnable containers across our markets. We also expect that the higher spend for recycled PET compared with virgin PET will increase further to approximately €60 million, as we accelerate our performance against our Mission 2025 target, but also due to the EU requirement for a 25% minimum recycled content on PET beverage bottles. To support our actions, financial resources must be secured through targeted allocation. Our sustainable finance approach underpins the Group’s ability to align funding strategies with sustainability commitments, while supporting the UN SDGs and the EU Environmental Objectives. Financing mechanisms include a diverse range of instruments, ensuring flexibility in meeting both current and future financial requirements for action plans. Metrics and targets E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3_01 We have set voluntary targets that promote circular economy, and they are designed to address both resource inflows and outflows, and the lifecycle of products and materials. E5-3_02 Our objective is to keep our primary packaging 100% recyclable by design. Therefore, we have established a target related to circular product design, which is already achieved. We have made our primary packaging 100% fully recyclable three years ahead of the expected timeline and 2025 target. For us, recyclability is calculated as technical recyclability by design, and here we consider all beverage packaging which is made of glass, aluminium/steel, PET and aseptic cartons. All of those are able to be recycled fully. We consider as technical recyclability by design any reuse or recycle option for those materials. In the definition, we do not take into consideration the packaging collection rates in every country. E5-3_03 & E5-3_04 Our resource inflows targets focus on the continuous improvement of recycled material use. They have a double role, since by increasing their recycled content, the rates of primary raw materials decline. The targets refer to the recycled PET used for plastic bottles. Furthermore, we aim to remove an additional 2,800 tonnes of our light-weight packaging by 2025 compared with 2023 data. E5-3_05 & E5-3_09 As already stated, we aim to source all our paper- based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources. Now, 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) we use are FSC®-certified. Driven by the materiality results, and focusing on the material topics, our targets address the prevention layer (including the reduction) of the waste hierarchy pyramid, as well as recycling and recovering. Returnable glass bottles address reuse layer of the waste hierarchy. E5.MDR-T_01 The majority of those targets are connected with the Packaging Waste Management Policy and reflect total Group targets. To track our performance and our contribution to the final target, every year we set a yearly target as an annual milestone. E5.MDR-T_12 For our targets we use actual data to report the progress, e.g., for recyclability we use the technical by design data of our primary packaging materials (glass, PET, aluminium/steel can, paper, aseptic paper). Our time horizons could be an annual goal aligned with the Business Planning process (BP), mid-term targets aligned with our long-range plan (LRP) and business objectives, or long-term targets such as NetZeroby40 aligned with the external trends. All those targets, however, are disaggregated to annual roadmaps, and our regular performance review is two-pronged: a) versus the annual roadmap; and b) versus the direction of the target year. On this way, we are able to set actions and correct course if needed. E5-3_01 & E5-3_09 & E5.MDR-T_02 – E5.MDR-T_08 Table 28 below provides further details on each target, including their characteristics (targets’ level, their units, their time-boundaries, the progress made over the baseline measurements), illustrating how they contribute to our overall sustainability goals and circular economy principles. Targets are voluntary. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 125 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Table 28: List of targets Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline and Baseline number Target to be achieved Value chain and geographical boundaries 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Stakeholders Involvement Planning to achieve the target Relation to waste hierarchy Recyclability by design Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (99%) 100% of consumer packaging to be recyclable Upstream/Global Percentage of recyclable by design materials from main packaging used in 2024: 100% Sustainable Development Goal 8, 9, 11, 12, 14 & 17 Suppliers 2025 Recycling Light-weight Packaging Absolute in tonnes 2023-2025 2023 Remove 2,800 tonnes of packaging through light-weighting our packaging Own operations/ Global Continue implementing best in class packaging weight Suppliers, Customers Prevention (Reduce) PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (9%) 35% of PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Upstream & Own Operations/Global 23.8% rPET (placed on the market in 2024) Suppliers, Customers 2025 Recycling 50% of PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Upstream & Own Operations/EU countries and Switzerland 45.9% rPET (placed on the market in 2024) Suppliers, Customers 2025 Zero Waste partnerships (city and/or coast) Absolute 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (0) Engage in 20 zero waste partnerships (city and/or coast) Downstream/Global 20 out of 20 zero waste projects NGOs, Communities, Local municipalities 2025 – Collection rate of our primary packaging placed on the market Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (41%) Help collect the equivalent of 75% of our primary packaging Downstream/Global 57% оf primary packaging placed on the market in 2024 (including Egypt); Excluding Egypt, the amount is 58% Government and Regulators, Peer companies, Customers, Suppliers, NGOs 2025 Recycling Coca-Cola System-owned & operated packaging collection facility Absolute in tonnes 2025 2024 Collect 1,000 metric tonnes of packaging materials Downstream/Nigeria In 2024, together with TCCC, the Coca-Cola system-owned packaging collection facility was completed NGOs, Communities, Local municipalities. Government and Regulators, Peer companies >2025 Recycling Paper Bricks Absolute in % Continue (rolling target) n/a Source all our paper-based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources Upstream/Global 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) used are FSC-certified Suppliers >2030 – Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 126 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-T_12 & E5-3_13 & E5.MDR-T_01 We have not changed any of our targets, as for us any sustainability target means to deliver, to execute – an opposite of an aspirational target. The Single Use Plastics Directive, which was introduced after our 2025 commitments, applies only to EU Member States. However, we have voluntarily extended these commitments to include our other markets, ensuring they reflect our entire value chain. E5-3_13 & E5.MDR-T_09 The Single Use Plastics Directive imposed in 2019 a 77% separate collection target of PET beverage bottles by 2025 and a recycled content target of 25% in PET beverage bottles. For our collection targets, these were set in 2018, following a previous commitment of 40% total packaging collected by 2020, which we had already overachieved in 2018. For 2025, we have set ambitious targets as an average for all our markets. Not all markets are in the EU, therefore the 75% on average was much more ambitious than the Single Use Plastic Directive or any other local targets. The Single Use Plastic Directive also only defines collection for PET bottles whereas we are going beyond this, including all our primary packaging (such as glass bottles and aluminium cans). For recycled content, this is also above Single Use Plastic Directive targets for 2025. E5.MDR-T_13 We have specialised software to monitor and review for each of our ESG goals/targets, and we report monthly the actual performance and status (if we are on track, lagging behind or partly on track) to the members of the ELT who are accountable for the respective KPIs. The actuals are easily available in our EDGE dashboards. Quarterly, the performance and the related actions to achieve the annual goals are reported to the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors. E5.MDR-T_10 & E5.MDR-T_11 We have also involved our stakeholders in the process of target-setting. We use the industry best practices for setting the targets and clearly describe the calculations and methods used in our internal guidebooks. Feedback by NGOs, industry associations such as UNESDA, and suppliers, but also strategic initiatives such as the UN SDGs, are considered. Stakeholder engagement is pivotal, particularly through Annual Stakeholder Forums and frequent meetings with all relevant stakeholders (NGOs, peer companies, customers, municipalities). The insights gathered from these engagements, along with the expectations of ESG raters and investors, inform the setting of ambitious, data-driven targets. E5-3_08 We strive to minimise food loss and food waste in our operations. Our target to tackle food waste and loss across our activities and operations is: to decrease our absolute food losses (in dry matter) by 30% by 2025 compared to our 2019 baseline despite volume growth, an increase in portfolio/beverage categories, and expansion to emerging markets, and further reduce by 40% by 2030 vs 2019. Food loss and waste at our manufacturing sites are part of the overall waste management process. We strive to reach 100% recycled waste and zero waste to landfill in manufacturing. We have reduced the percentage of manufacturing waste going to landfill significantly: in 2024, only 1.6% of our manufacturing waste went to landfill, while in 2015 it was 10.1%. This means in 2024 98.4% of total manufacturing waste was recycled or used for alternative usage.. E5-4 Resource inflows E5-4_01 Resource inflows, relevant to upstream activities and reported within this chapter, take into account the results of the materiality analysis. This analysis has identified packaging inflows as a material topic. Our packaging inflows include different streams of packaging, such as: • Plastic, which is used for plastic bottles, closures, HDPE/LDPE bottles, labels and stretch/shrink films; • Glass, which is used for glass bottles; • Metal, which are used for aluminium cans and metal crowns; and • Paper, which is used for paper labels, composite aseptic carton, cardboard and wood pallets). All data relevant to our packaging inflows quantities that we used during the reporting period is disclosed in the following table. E5-4_02 – E5-4_05 Table 29: Material Inflows Indicators Parameters Unit 2024 The overall total weight of products (beverage+packaging) Tonnes 20,382,929 The overall total weight of technical materials used (ingredients + packaging materials) Tonnes 2,143,227 Total Plastic Tonnes 427,749 PET (bottles) Tonnes 346,143 Plant-Pet Tonnes 0 Plastic (closures + HDPE/LDPE bottles) Tonnes 30,268 PE (labels and stretch/shrink films) Tonnes 51,338 Total Glass Tonnes 193,285 Glass (Bottles) Tonnes 193,285 Total Metal Tonnes 80,508 Aluminium (cans) Tonnes 73,608 Metal (crowns) Tonnes 6,900 Total Paper Tonnes 153,133 Paper (labels) Tonnes 1,318 Composite carton (Tetra Pak, bricks) Tonnes 26,232 Cardboard Tonnes 72,788 Wood (pallets) Tonnes 52,795 Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 127 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued S1.MDR-T_13 How targets are monitored and reviewed We have specialised software for each of our ESG goals/targets, and we report monthly the actual performance and status (if we are on track, lagging or partly on track) to the members of the ELT who are accountable for the respective KPIs. The actuals are easily available in our EDGE dashboards. Quarterly, the performance is reported to the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors. At local business unit level, those targets are also reviewed monthly. For each of the targets, we have the same process: setting annual targets for each year by the target year (so-called annual roadmaps), monthly reporting of actuals, monthly performance review and actions set by each owner, quarterly report to the Social Responsibility Committee, annual disclosure in the IAR and on the website. S1-5_01, 02, 03 S1-5_01 Setting a target of zero fatalities and aiming for zero occupational health and safety incidents aligns with the expectations of both employees and external stakeholders, as even a single incident is one too many. Similarly, the goal of having 50% women in leadership positions and striving to achieve a top decile global norm in employee engagement are fully aligned with our employees’ expectations. These targets reflect our commitment to creating a safe and inclusive workplace. S1-5_02 Tracking CCHBC’s performance We conduct regular performance reviews for each of the KPIs used, including the ones for people. During those performance reviews, different levels of the organisation are included. Workers’ representatives are being involved in DEI reviews in local discussions. Group OH&S results are being communicated to all CCH countries via regular Group meetings and routines established with the business units; country results are being communicated via country meetings across the organisation (shift review meetings, plant management and all employees’ meetings, etc.) and are also displayed in specific communication boards across our plants. S1-5_03 Lessons learned or improvements as a result of CCHBC’s performance We have introduced bi-monthly OH&S Lessons learned meetings, where we present selected SIF (Severe Injuries and Fatalities) and SIFp (events, that have potential to become severe injury or fatality – can be LTA or Severe Near Miss). Every second month, we choose a few relevant SIF/SIFp events and they are presented to all our countries. Then each business unit should take proactive action to avoid similar accidents from happening. All documents are then uploaded on an internal platform and shared again with all countries. Also, we perform lessons learned from the major audit findings where the respective country is required to share their actions to improve. We maintain strong collaboration with worker representatives, both at the local level and through the European Works Council (EWC), which holds two select committee meetings and one plenary meeting each year. No issues have been reported in these engagements in 2024. S1-6 – Characteristics of CCHBC’s employees S1-6_01-06 & S1-1_20 Records on recruitment, training and promotion: We use specialised software integrated with our business systems to keep up-to-date and detailed records on recruitment, training and promotion. Every employee is able to see their performance review and data in the system. All new positions are published transparently internally and externally. Table 31: Total employee FTE by gender Gender 2024 Number of employees (FTE) Male 23,999 Female 9,019 Other 0 Not reported 0 Total employees 33,018 All data in the tables presents FTE (full-time equivalent) calculation, and it is based on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). We report full-year FTEs as the average number of actual active employees occupying a position either on permanent or temporary contract within the reported period, converted into full-time equivalents. Yearly reporting cycle is applied (1 Jan 2024 – 31 Dec 2024). Table 32: Total employee FTE in countries where CCHBC has at least 50 employees representing at least 10% of its total number of employees Country 2024 Number of employees (FTE) Armenia 344 Austria 868 Belarus 1,132 Bosnia and Herzegovina 286 Bulgaria 1,576 Croatia 498 Cyprus 256 Czech Republic 798 Egypt 5,466 Estonia 65 Country 2024 Number of employees (FTE) Finland 19 Greece 2,116 Hungary 960 Italy 2,074 Kosovo 112 North Macedonia (only corporate office employees) 3 Latvia 88 Lithuania 116 Moldova 136 Montenegro 23 The Netherlands 59 Nigeria 2,874 Northern Ireland 535 Poland 1,701 Republic of Ireland 289 Romania 1,504 Russia 5,522 Serbia 1,546 Slovakia 148 Slovenia 82 Switzerland 687 Ukraine 1,135 Τotal 33,018 (33,068 based on Headcount) Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 142 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued S1-6_07 Table 33: Information on employees by contract type, broken down by gender (head count or FTE) FTE Female Male Other Not disclosed Total Reporting year 2024 Total number of employees 9,019 23,999 0 0 33,018 Number of permanent employees 8,383 21,226 0 0 29,609 Number of temporary employees 636 2,773 0 0 3,409 Number of non-guaranteed hours employees N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Number of full-time employees 8,920 23,974 0 0 32,894 Number of part-time employees 99 25 0 0 124 S1-6_11-12 Turnover is being calculated as the sum of voluntary and involuntary permanent leavers in the total reporting period, divided by the average number of permanent active employees over the total reporting period, multiplied by 100. Table 34: Number of employees who left the Group and turnover rate Reporting year 2024 Number of employees who left the Group 3,340 Employee turnover rate 10.53% Number of employees who left the Group voluntarily 2,374 Employee voluntary turnover rate 7.48% Number of employees who left the Group involuntarily 966 Employee involuntary turnover rate 3.05% S1-6_13-15 All materially impacted FTEs are included in the disclosure. All data presents FTE (full-time equivalent) calculation, and it is based on IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). Yearly reporting cycle is applied (1 Jan 2024 – 31 Dec 2024). S1-6_16 The percentage of seasonal employees vs Total Group FTE: 1%, i.e., not significant variation (mostly during the high season which is the summer season). Region 1 includes the following countries: Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland, Poland, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Switzerland. Region 2 includes the following countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Greece, Cyprus, North Macedonia, Romania, Serbia (including the Republic of Kosovo), Montenegro, Ukraine, Moldova, Armenia. Region 3 includes the following countries: Russia, Nigeria, Egypt, Belarus. S1-6_17 Employee-related costs are included in the Group’s consolidated income statement and are split between cost of goods sold and operating expenses. For more information, please refer to Note 8, page 268 of the ‘Financial Statements’. S1-7 – Characteristics of non-employee workers in CCHBC’s own workforce S1-7_01-03 According to ESRS S1-7 par. 55 (a) – PH (1) Table 35: Number of non-employees in CCHBC’s own workforce (FTEs) Number of non-employees in CCHBC’s own workforce 2024 Number of people with contracts with CCHBC’s to supply labour (self-employed people) 19 Number of people provided by CCHBC’s primarily engaged in ‘employment activities’ (NACE code N78) 5,822 S1-7_06-08 Here we apply the same method as to our regular employees and that is reporting FTEs for the full year as an average at the end of the reporting period. S1-7_09 There is no significant fluctuation (less than 1%) between 2023 reporting period and 2024 reporting period. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 143 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued S1-10 – Adequate wages S1-10_01 Please see S1. SBM-3_01-04, 06, 11 (Access to a living wage part). S1-11 – Social protection S1-11_01-05 In all Established, Developing and Emerging markets, basic benefits may be provided to both full-time and temporary employees, in particular in relation to labour rights and safety. Stock ownership plans, where these are offered, do not apply to temporary employees due to the vesting periods (one year or more). Benefit packages are provided according to in-country guidelines and are available per country. We do not disclose this information for a single statement currently due to confidentiality. S1-13 – Training and skills development metrics S1-13_01-04 & S1-1_22 Programmes to promote access to skills development We provide learning and development opportunities for all our employees reflecting a key pillar of our people strategy which is democratised learning. In 2024, our learning programmes covering leadership, functional training, general business training and compliance included 552,479 participations, across all management layers. S1-9 – Diversity metrics S1-9_01-02 Table 36: Gender distribution in number and percentage at senior management level (our top 300/top 40 business leaders, including country function heads, Group sub-function heads and the ELT, including the CEO) Gender distribution in number and percentage at top management level 2024 (Headcount) 2024 (%) Female 149 41% Male 210 59% S1-9_03-05 Table 37: Distribution of employees by age group Distribution of employees by age group 2024 (%) < 30 years old 16.4% 30 to 50 years old 67.0% > 50 years old 16.6% Our commitment to people development is supported by our constantly evolving Talent Review framework, which enables us to identify successors for senior leadership roles. We continued to optimise development tools, such as STAY and career conversations, and individual development plan guides. Talent Builders was launched as a programme to support all new people leaders on an end-to-end journey dedicated to the essentials of recruiting, developing and retaining people. We have also focused on our critical growth capabilities, introducing ‘x-ray’ reviews to proactively identify where we need to invest in external hires or internal capability development, which are vital for sustainable business performance and growth. We offer a suite of academies that support professional development of key sales roles. Alongside new Premium Spirits and Coffee Academies, we launched a Digital Commerce Academy and relaunched our Sales Academy for Key Accounts. We also launched MYcroLearnings across all our markets as five-minute bitesize online sessions offered every two weeks to our entire sales force to reinforce foundational and critical elements of sales capabilities. When it comes to investing in our supply chain talent, we launched the Supply Chain Academy to approximately 95% of all supply chain personnel across manufacturing, logistics, quality, planning and procurement. In 2023, we launched our Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Academy, partnering with credible European academia. The programme is long term, continuing in 2024 and 2025. Table 38: Percentage of employees who participated in regular performance and career development review by gender and average number of training hours per employee by gender. Reporting year Females Males 2024 Percentage of employees that participated in regular performance and career development review 76.8% 50.5% Average number of training hours per FTE 19.9 20.2 S1-14 – Health and safety metrics S1-14_01 & S1-1_18 Our Mission is to provide a safe place of work for all our employees, contractors, visitors and individuals under our supervision, with a target of zero accidents across all our operations and sites. For this reason, the following policy is applicable to Coca-Cola HBC employees, contractors, visitors and individuals across all our operations and sites (i.e., 100% of CCH people working in our premises are covered, including contractors working in our premises). We deliver our OH&S policy programme through a structured implementation of the occupational health and safety management system ISO 45001. Adjustments for disabilities: in every office and manufacturing plant we have facilities adjusted for people with disabilities, such as ramps, lifts and toilets. We have established several Healthy working environment initiatives focusing on ergonomic workplace, illumination, noise, indoor air quality and humidity. For each of these, specific design requirements are described in our Engineering Specifications, and regular trainings are offered to the employees (e.g., via specific Toolbox Talks). Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 144 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued S1-14_02-09 Table 39: Health and Safety KPIs Type of own workforce Employees Non- employees Reporting year 2024 Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and work-related ill-health 1 0 Number of recordable work-related accidents 100 0 Rate of recordable work-related accidents 1.52 0 Number of cases of recordable work-related ill-health, subject to legal restrictions on the collection of data 0 0 Number of days lost to work-related injuries and fatalities from work-related accidents, work-related ill-health and fatalities from ill- health. 2,009 0 S1-14_10, 11 We implement an occupational health and safety management system. 100% of our manufacturing sites are certified in ISO 45001, and 100% of our direct operations are covered by the internal Health and Safety audit process, to assure full compliance with the local health and safety standards and our internal requirements. All our business units are covered by the internal health and safety management system, including manufacturing plants, offices, sales offices, our own distribution centres and warehouses, the contractors working in our premises or third-party contractors. S1-16 – Compensation metrics (pay gap and total compensation) S1-16_01 Table 40: Gender pay gap includes base salary, short- and long-term cash incentives; excludes benefit in kind Reporting year 2024 Gender pay gap (%) based on average -38.8% Gender pay gap (%) based on median -38.6% S1-16_02, 03 Table 41: Annual total remuneration ratio Reporting year 2024 Annual total remuneration ratio (%) 5700 Since CCHBC operates across diverse markets including emerging ones, the calculation is based on total remuneration compared against workforce based in Switzerland. More information is available in the ‘Corporate Governance’ section, ‘Directors’ remuneration report’, ‘CEO pay ratio’, on page 245. S1-17 – Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts S1-17_01-02 According to ESRS S1-17 par. 103 (a) Table 42: Total number of incidents of discrimination, including harassment reported in the reporting period Reporting year 2024 Total number of incidents of discrimination, including harassment reported in the reporting period 6 (20 reported, 6 confirmed and 14 unsubstantiated) S1-17_03-05, 07 Table 43: Number of complaints* filed through channels for employees to raise concerns (including grievance mechanisms) and number of complaints filed to National Contact Points for OECD Multinational Enterprises Reporting year 2024 Number of complaints filed through channels for employees to raise concerns (including grievance mechanisms) 580** Number of complaints filed to National Contact Points for OECD Multinational Enterprises 0 * Please note that in some countries in which CCH operates, there are different complaint processes and people may need to approach other authorities to file a complaint, so some complaints may not be included above. ** 580 is the total number of complaints (all issue types) excluding the 20 reported as harassment/discrimination. S1-17_08-12 & S1-17_14 In 2024, there were no findings of human rights violations related to our employees, and no severe human rights incidents occurred during the reporting period. As a result, no remediation actions or fines were required. S1-17_13- V We received 20 cases of alleged discrimination: six of the matters were investigated in accordance with Company policies and procedures and were found to be substantiated. The Company took immediate action, and the matters have been resolved; the other 14 of the matters were investigated in accordance with Company policies and procedures and were found to be unsubstantiated. The matters have been resolved, and no further action is required. Initiatives to promote an inclusive workplace with appropriate leadership behaviours include inclusive leadership modules available in several of our local languages. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 145 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Strategy SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model S2.SBM-3_01, 02, 03, 05, 06 At CCHBC, all value chain workers who may be materially impacted by our operations are included in the scope of disclosures under ESRS 2. This encompasses addressing impacts linked to our own operations and value chain, including those arising from our products, services and business relationships. We specifically report on key areas such as secure employment, adequate wages, health and safety, gender equality, equal pay for work of equal value, and training and skills development. Types of value chain workers We consider value chain workers, workers working on our sites, but who are not part of own workforce, i.e., who are not self-employed workers or workers provided by third-party undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities. In essence: • They are outsourced to a separate company that manages its own staff; • Coca-Cola HBC does not directly control the workers; instead, it has a business relationship with the service provider; • The responsibility for managing and employing the workers lies with the service provider, even if the work is performed at CCHBC’s premises; • The external service provide retains responsibility for hiring, managing and supervising, and CCHBC has a business relationship with the service provider, not the individual workers. Examples include pickers and forklift drivers in our warehouses, workers sorting our empty reusable bottles at our plant facilities, cleaning services workers and workers working at our wastewater treatment facilities in the plants and drivers of the delivery trucks by our outsourced logistics. We also consider value chain workers, a variety of workers in the supply base that execute various activities either in an office context or within the agricultural sector and industrial sectors. Our supply base focus is Tier 1 suppliers and aspire to cover for the Tier 2 or below suppliers through the Supplier’s commitment on SGPs or PSA in the case of agricultural ingredients. In Coca-Cola HBC, 100% of vendors must acknowledge acceptance of CCH SGPs before they can proceed to work with us across sectors and sourcing categories and are monitored on compliance through various tools depending on complexity and criticality of their operations. Specifically, the Strategic Group Suppliers, we actively ask them to confirm ESG compliance including social and human rights attributes, for their critical supply base, i.e. T2 layer or below for CCH. This equally includes white and blue collar works across industries. Specifically for agricultural suppliers, we aspire to cover 100% of our supply base through PSA certifications provided by third-party specialists, which are specifically covering through audits, the practices of farmers and their positioning towards workers of the land such as SAI FSA, ISCC Plus, BONSUCRO, REDcert2, Rainforest Alliance, FairTrade International, Global GAP+GRASP, Global GAP+FSA Add-On, UNILEVER SAC, etc. Our negative effect We have no widespread or systemic material negative impacts on value chain workers in contexts where we operate. Regardless of the high occupational health and safety standards we require by our contractors and service providers, we still report lost time accidents which is the reason to consider negative impact there. Any occupational health and safety incidents are individual. One value chain worker’s fatality was reported in 2024. The contractor lost-time incidents frequency rate (LTIFR) in 2024 is decreasing to 1.31 compared to 1.72 in 2023. ESRS S2 – Workers in the value chain Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 146 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Time – reference Scope of action Progress of actions/ action plans disclosed in prior periods List of actions Current Planned Time horizon of action completion Expected outcomes Achievement of policy objectives & targets Activities Value chain segment Geographical boundaries Affected stakeholders Quantitative and qualitative information We support well-designed deposit return schemes (DRS) in our European markets, wherever an effective alternative doesn’t already exist. As of 2024, eight of our markets now have DRS in place to assist in the design and implementation of new national DRS in each of these countries. 2024 2028 By 2028 To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) & Decrease plastic waste Fulfill our Mission 2025 target of 75% collection of primary packaging by 2025 Deliver EU collection targets of 90% separate collection for PET and beverage cans by 2029 Played a critical role in the successful launch of new DRS in Romania, Ireland and Hungary Established a new DRS operator in Poland (Kaucja.pl) with CCHBC as a shareholder to support the successful launch of DRS in Poland in 2025 Made preparations for the successful Jan 2025 launch of DRS in Austria Actively participated in a cross- industry coalition that offered advice and strategic input to the Greek government on DRS, while developing a business plan for the application for a DRS operator licence Downstream Croatia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Republic of Ireland, Romania and Slovakia. We are engaging proactively in Austria, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Greece, Moldova, Northern Ireland, Poland, Serbia and Slovenia Communities, Governments, Customers, Peer Companies 2024 roadmap and plans implemented (including launches in Ireland, Romania and Hungary) A clear action plan for 2025 aligned and approved by senior management (including DRS launches in Austria, Poland and Greece) Development of EPR schemes in countries where it is not mandatory in order to reduce the downstream pollution 2024 2028 2028 To reduce environmental impact (water and soil) and reduce waste, increase packaging collection Fulfill our Mission 2025 target of 75% collection of primary packaging by 2025 We continued to support the work of the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA) and other packaging collection projects Open the first-ever Coca-Cola System-owned and operated packaging collection hub Downstream Nigeria Consumers, Customers, Communities, Peer companies Progress made in Egypt and Nigeria as per the plan Continue working with BariQ in Egypt Egypt Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 124 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-A_04 As seen, we have established a comprehensive action plan and implemented several actions related to circular economy and packaging. By those actions, we demonstrate our support to nature and to people independently on whether they are harmed or not. In 2024, no negative incident related to circular economy has been recorded. Financial Resources E5.MDR-A_06, 07, 09, 11 Specifically, to support our actions related to the expansion of reusable/refillable packaging, we make investments every year for the renewal or increase of the returnable containers fleet. In 2024, this investment reached €59 million. We also invested €9.5 million in production infrastructure, mainly for new returnable glass production lines in Italy and Nigeria. In addition, we invest significant amounts to support our action plan around the increase of recycled content in our packaging, specifically by expanding the use of recycled PET. Building on the significant in-house rPET production infrastructure investments we have made in the past few years in Italy, Poland and Romania, we allocated €30 million in 2024 to support the higher cost of recycled PET compared with virgin PET. The Capex and cost of packaging materials mentioned above are reflected in our ‘Financial Statements’, in the cash flow statement and the income statement, respectively. Moving ahead, we will continue to support our circular economy action plan as required. Specifically for 2025, we plan to continue our investments in production infrastructure in Italy to support the RGB expansion in the market, and we will allocate significant Capex on returnable containers across our markets. We also expect that the higher spend for recycled PET compared with virgin PET will increase further to approximately €60 million, as we accelerate our performance against our Mission 2025 target, but also due to the EU requirement for a 25% minimum recycled content on PET beverage bottles. To support our actions, financial resources must be secured through targeted allocation. Our sustainable finance approach underpins the Group’s ability to align funding strategies with sustainability commitments, while supporting the UN SDGs and the EU Environmental Objectives. Financing mechanisms include a diverse range of instruments, ensuring flexibility in meeting both current and future financial requirements for action plans. Metrics and targets E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3_01 We have set voluntary targets that promote circular economy, and they are designed to address both resource inflows and outflows, and the lifecycle of products and materials. E5-3_02 Our objective is to keep our primary packaging 100% recyclable by design. Therefore, we have established a target related to circular product design, which is already achieved. We have made our primary packaging 100% fully recyclable three years ahead of the expected timeline and 2025 target. For us, recyclability is calculated as technical recyclability by design, and here we consider all beverage packaging which is made of glass, aluminium/steel, PET and aseptic cartons. All of those are able to be recycled fully. We consider as technical recyclability by design any reuse or recycle option for those materials. In the definition, we do not take into consideration the packaging collection rates in every country. E5-3_03 & E5-3_04 Our resource inflows targets focus on the continuous improvement of recycled material use. They have a double role, since by increasing their recycled content, the rates of primary raw materials decline. The targets refer to the recycled PET used for plastic bottles. Furthermore, we aim to remove an additional 2,800 tonnes of our light-weight packaging by 2025 compared with 2023 data. E5-3_05 & E5-3_09 As already stated, we aim to source all our paper- based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources. Now, 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) we use are FSC®-certified. Driven by the materiality results, and focusing on the material topics, our targets address the prevention layer (including the reduction) of the waste hierarchy pyramid, as well as recycling and recovering. Returnable glass bottles address reuse layer of the waste hierarchy. E5.MDR-T_01 The majority of those targets are connected with the Packaging Waste Management Policy and reflect total Group targets. To track our performance and our contribution to the final target, every year we set a yearly target as an annual milestone. E5.MDR-T_12 For our targets we use actual data to report the progress, e.g., for recyclability we use the technical by design data of our primary packaging materials (glass, PET, aluminium/steel can, paper, aseptic paper). Our time horizons could be an annual goal aligned with the Business Planning process (BP), mid-term targets aligned with our long-range plan (LRP) and business objectives, or long-term targets such as NetZeroby40 aligned with the external trends. All those targets, however, are disaggregated to annual roadmaps, and our regular performance review is two-pronged: a) versus the annual roadmap; and b) versus the direction of the target year. On this way, we are able to set actions and correct course if needed. E5-3_01 & E5-3_09 & E5.MDR-T_02 – E5.MDR-T_08 Table 28 below provides further details on each target, including their characteristics (targets’ level, their units, their time-boundaries, the progress made over the baseline measurements), illustrating how they contribute to our overall sustainability goals and circular economy principles. Targets are voluntary. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 125 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Table 28: List of targets Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline and Baseline number Target to be achieved Value chain and geographical boundaries 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Stakeholders Involvement Planning to achieve the target Relation to waste hierarchy Recyclability by design Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (99%) 100% of consumer packaging to be recyclable Upstream/Global Percentage of recyclable by design materials from main packaging used in 2024: 100% Sustainable Development Goal 8, 9, 11, 12, 14 & 17 Suppliers 2025 Recycling Light-weight Packaging Absolute in tonnes 2023-2025 2023 Remove 2,800 tonnes of packaging through light-weighting our packaging Own operations/ Global Continue implementing best in class packaging weight Suppliers, Customers Prevention (Reduce) PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (9%) 35% of PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Upstream & Own Operations/Global 23.8% rPET (placed on the market in 2024) Suppliers, Customers 2025 Recycling 50% of PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Upstream & Own Operations/EU countries and Switzerland 45.9% rPET (placed on the market in 2024) Suppliers, Customers 2025 Zero Waste partnerships (city and/or coast) Absolute 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (0) Engage in 20 zero waste partnerships (city and/or coast) Downstream/Global 20 out of 20 zero waste projects NGOs, Communities, Local municipalities 2025 – Collection rate of our primary packaging placed on the market Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (41%) Help collect the equivalent of 75% of our primary packaging Downstream/Global 57% оf primary packaging placed on the market in 2024 (including Egypt); Excluding Egypt, the amount is 58% Government and Regulators, Peer companies, Customers, Suppliers, NGOs 2025 Recycling Coca-Cola System-owned & operated packaging collection facility Absolute in tonnes 2025 2024 Collect 1,000 metric tonnes of packaging materials Downstream/Nigeria In 2024, together with TCCC, the Coca-Cola system-owned packaging collection facility was completed NGOs, Communities, Local municipalities. Government and Regulators, Peer companies >2025 Recycling Paper Bricks Absolute in % Continue (rolling target) n/a Source all our paper-based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources Upstream/Global 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) used are FSC-certified Suppliers >2030 – Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 126 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-T_12 & E5-3_13 & E5.MDR-T_01 We have not changed any of our targets, as for us any sustainability target means to deliver, to execute – an opposite of an aspirational target. The Single Use Plastics Directive, which was introduced after our 2025 commitments, applies only to EU Member States. However, we have voluntarily extended these commitments to include our other markets, ensuring they reflect our entire value chain. E5-3_13 & E5.MDR-T_09 The Single Use Plastics Directive imposed in 2019 a 77% separate collection target of PET beverage bottles by 2025 and a recycled content target of 25% in PET beverage bottles. For our collection targets, these were set in 2018, following a previous commitment of 40% total packaging collected by 2020, which we had already overachieved in 2018. For 2025, we have set ambitious targets as an average for all our markets. Not all markets are in the EU, therefore the 75% on average was much more ambitious than the Single Use Plastic Directive or any other local targets. The Single Use Plastic Directive also only defines collection for PET bottles whereas we are going beyond this, including all our primary packaging (such as glass bottles and aluminium cans). For recycled content, this is also above Single Use Plastic Directive targets for 2025. E5.MDR-T_13 We have specialised software to monitor and review for each of our ESG goals/targets, and we report monthly the actual performance and status (if we are on track, lagging behind or partly on track) to the members of the ELT who are accountable for the respective KPIs. The actuals are easily available in our EDGE dashboards. Quarterly, the performance and the related actions to achieve the annual goals are reported to the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors. E5.MDR-T_10 & E5.MDR-T_11 We have also involved our stakeholders in the process of target-setting. We use the industry best practices for setting the targets and clearly describe the calculations and methods used in our internal guidebooks. Feedback by NGOs, industry associations such as UNESDA, and suppliers, but also strategic initiatives such as the UN SDGs, are considered. Stakeholder engagement is pivotal, particularly through Annual Stakeholder Forums and frequent meetings with all relevant stakeholders (NGOs, peer companies, customers, municipalities). The insights gathered from these engagements, along with the expectations of ESG raters and investors, inform the setting of ambitious, data-driven targets. E5-3_08 We strive to minimise food loss and food waste in our operations. Our target to tackle food waste and loss across our activities and operations is: to decrease our absolute food losses (in dry matter) by 30% by 2025 compared to our 2019 baseline despite volume growth, an increase in portfolio/beverage categories, and expansion to emerging markets, and further reduce by 40% by 2030 vs 2019. Food loss and waste at our manufacturing sites are part of the overall waste management process. We strive to reach 100% recycled waste and zero waste to landfill in manufacturing. We have reduced the percentage of manufacturing waste going to landfill significantly: in 2024, only 1.6% of our manufacturing waste went to landfill, while in 2015 it was 10.1%. This means in 2024 98.4% of total manufacturing waste was recycled or used for alternative usage.. E5-4 Resource inflows E5-4_01 Resource inflows, relevant to upstream activities and reported within this chapter, take into account the results of the materiality analysis. This analysis has identified packaging inflows as a material topic. Our packaging inflows include different streams of packaging, such as: • Plastic, which is used for plastic bottles, closures, HDPE/LDPE bottles, labels and stretch/shrink films; • Glass, which is used for glass bottles; • Metal, which are used for aluminium cans and metal crowns; and • Paper, which is used for paper labels, composite aseptic carton, cardboard and wood pallets). All data relevant to our packaging inflows quantities that we used during the reporting period is disclosed in the following table. E5-4_02 – E5-4_05 Table 29: Material Inflows Indicators Parameters Unit 2024 The overall total weight of products (beverage+packaging) Tonnes 20,382,929 The overall total weight of technical materials used (ingredients + packaging materials) Tonnes 2,143,227 Total Plastic Tonnes 427,749 PET (bottles) Tonnes 346,143 Plant-Pet Tonnes 0 Plastic (closures + HDPE/LDPE bottles) Tonnes 30,268 PE (labels and stretch/shrink films) Tonnes 51,338 Total Glass Tonnes 193,285 Glass (Bottles) Tonnes 193,285 Total Metal Tonnes 80,508 Aluminium (cans) Tonnes 73,608 Metal (crowns) Tonnes 6,900 Total Paper Tonnes 153,133 Paper (labels) Tonnes 1,318 Composite carton (Tetra Pak, bricks) Tonnes 26,232 Cardboard Tonnes 72,788 Wood (pallets) Tonnes 52,795 Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 127 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued 1. Excluding water. Parameters Unit 2024 The weight of secondary reused or recycled components used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Tonnes 199,648 The weight of secondary reused or recycled components used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Percentage 23% out of total packaging materials The weight of secondary intermediary products used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Tonnes 0 The weight of secondary intermediary products used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Percentage 0 The weight of secondary materials used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Tonnes 0 The weight of secondary materials used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Percentage 0 Data Methodology E5-4_06 The data derives from direct measurements, detailing each material that enters our operations. The data is based on the purchased volume we use either for the manufacturing of our packaging (only in the in-house rPET plants) or for the packaging which is being supplied from external suppliers. The data relevant to recycled content for the packaging is based on our suppliers’ data, and then we calculate the weighted average based on the amount purchased by each of those suppliers. E5-4_08 We ensure that there is no overlap or double counting between the categories of reused and recycled materials. Reusable glass bottles are reported only with the new number of bottles purchased in the respective year. We have invoices and number of purchasing orders with the respective amount purchased for all materials that are entering in our plants. In our systems, we have master data of each material which is part of the product recipe, meaning that for each of our produced products, we know how much material we have used. The same for resource outflows – we know the exact amount of every ingredient and packaging material used in any sold products. Reusable packaging is not reported to the Packaging Recovery Organisations (PROs) for the floating volumes (i.e., all the bottles in circulation). We report only the new quantities of bottles purchased each year. This approach assumes that new bottle purchases are not solely due to increased volume but also because some reusable bottles were not collected and ended up in the recycling stream. Additionally, once reusable bottles reach the end of their lifespan, they will eventually become waste and be recycled. So, we avoid double counting by only reporting to the PROs the new quantities purchased each year, and not the whole floating (or in circulation) volume related to reusable/refillable glass bottles. E5-5 Resource outflows Outflows Resource outflows are another material topic for us. E5-5_01 We are committed to incorporate more circular principles in our production processes, and for that purpose we have implemented key actions and innovations. Now, five of our water brands are sold in 100% rPET bottles: Romerquelle (Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia), Deep RiverRock (Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland), Valser (Switzerland), Dorna (Romania) and Natura (Czech Republic and Slovakia). Switzerland was also our first country to move its entire locally produced PET portfolio to 100% rPET. This was followed by Italy1 and Austria, and in 2023, Romania, the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland also transitioned to 100% rPET for the locally produced PET portfolio. In addition, since 2023, Romania successfully combined a 100% rPET local bottle portfolio, an in-house rPET facility and a Deposit Return Scheme, helping us close the loop for plastic packaging circularity. We continue our use of recycled shrink film in Ireland, where our Deep RiverRock water multipacks are packaged in Reborn®, a fully recycled plastic film made from post-industrial and post-consumer waste. We are exploring opportunities to launch Reborn® in other markets. Our corrugated cardboard packaging in Europe contains >80% recycled content, while our composite paper carton packs, KeelClipTM, Qflex and LitePac Top, are 100% FSC-certified. Our wooden pallets are 100% reusable. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 128 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued S1-10 – Adequate wages S1-10_01 Please see S1. SBM-3_01-04, 06, 11 (Access to a living wage part). S1-11 – Social protection S1-11_01-05 In all Established, Developing and Emerging markets, basic benefits may be provided to both full-time and temporary employees, in particular in relation to labour rights and safety. Stock ownership plans, where these are offered, do not apply to temporary employees due to the vesting periods (one year or more). Benefit packages are provided according to in-country guidelines and are available per country. We do not disclose this information for a single statement currently due to confidentiality. S1-13 – Training and skills development metrics S1-13_01-04 & S1-1_22 Programmes to promote access to skills development We provide learning and development opportunities for all our employees reflecting a key pillar of our people strategy which is democratised learning. In 2024, our learning programmes covering leadership, functional training, general business training and compliance included 552,479 participations, across all management layers. S1-9 – Diversity metrics S1-9_01-02 Table 36: Gender distribution in number and percentage at senior management level (our top 300/top 40 business leaders, including country function heads, Group sub-function heads and the ELT, including the CEO) Gender distribution in number and percentage at top management level 2024 (Headcount) 2024 (%) Female 149 41% Male 210 59% S1-9_03-05 Table 37: Distribution of employees by age group Distribution of employees by age group 2024 (%) < 30 years old 16.4% 30 to 50 years old 67.0% > 50 years old 16.6% Our commitment to people development is supported by our constantly evolving Talent Review framework, which enables us to identify successors for senior leadership roles. We continued to optimise development tools, such as STAY and career conversations, and individual development plan guides. Talent Builders was launched as a programme to support all new people leaders on an end-to-end journey dedicated to the essentials of recruiting, developing and retaining people. We have also focused on our critical growth capabilities, introducing ‘x-ray’ reviews to proactively identify where we need to invest in external hires or internal capability development, which are vital for sustainable business performance and growth. We offer a suite of academies that support professional development of key sales roles. Alongside new Premium Spirits and Coffee Academies, we launched a Digital Commerce Academy and relaunched our Sales Academy for Key Accounts. We also launched MYcroLearnings across all our markets as five-minute bitesize online sessions offered every two weeks to our entire sales force to reinforce foundational and critical elements of sales capabilities. When it comes to investing in our supply chain talent, we launched the Supply Chain Academy to approximately 95% of all supply chain personnel across manufacturing, logistics, quality, planning and procurement. In 2023, we launched our Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Academy, partnering with credible European academia. The programme is long term, continuing in 2024 and 2025. Table 38: Percentage of employees who participated in regular performance and career development review by gender and average number of training hours per employee by gender. Reporting year Females Males 2024 Percentage of employees that participated in regular performance and career development review 76.8% 50.5% Average number of training hours per FTE 19.9 20.2 S1-14 – Health and safety metrics S1-14_01 & S1-1_18 Our Mission is to provide a safe place of work for all our employees, contractors, visitors and individuals under our supervision, with a target of zero accidents across all our operations and sites. For this reason, the following policy is applicable to Coca-Cola HBC employees, contractors, visitors and individuals across all our operations and sites (i.e., 100% of CCH people working in our premises are covered, including contractors working in our premises). We deliver our OH&S policy programme through a structured implementation of the occupational health and safety management system ISO 45001. Adjustments for disabilities: in every office and manufacturing plant we have facilities adjusted for people with disabilities, such as ramps, lifts and toilets. We have established several Healthy working environment initiatives focusing on ergonomic workplace, illumination, noise, indoor air quality and humidity. For each of these, specific design requirements are described in our Engineering Specifications, and regular trainings are offered to the employees (e.g., via specific Toolbox Talks). Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 144 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued S1-14_02-09 Table 39: Health and Safety KPIs Type of own workforce Employees Non- employees Reporting year 2024 Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and work-related ill-health 1 0 Number of recordable work-related accidents 100 0 Rate of recordable work-related accidents 1.52 0 Number of cases of recordable work-related ill-health, subject to legal restrictions on the collection of data 0 0 Number of days lost to work-related injuries and fatalities from work-related accidents, work-related ill-health and fatalities from ill- health. 2,009 0 S1-14_10, 11 We implement an occupational health and safety management system. 100% of our manufacturing sites are certified in ISO 45001, and 100% of our direct operations are covered by the internal Health and Safety audit process, to assure full compliance with the local health and safety standards and our internal requirements. All our business units are covered by the internal health and safety management system, including manufacturing plants, offices, sales offices, our own distribution centres and warehouses, the contractors working in our premises or third-party contractors. S1-16 – Compensation metrics (pay gap and total compensation) S1-16_01 Table 40: Gender pay gap includes base salary, short- and long-term cash incentives; excludes benefit in kind Reporting year 2024 Gender pay gap (%) based on average -38.8% Gender pay gap (%) based on median -38.6% S1-16_02, 03 Table 41: Annual total remuneration ratio Reporting year 2024 Annual total remuneration ratio (%) 5700 Since CCHBC operates across diverse markets including emerging ones, the calculation is based on total remuneration compared against workforce based in Switzerland. More information is available in the ‘Corporate Governance’ section, ‘Directors’ remuneration report’, ‘CEO pay ratio’, on page 245. S1-17 – Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts S1-17_01-02 According to ESRS S1-17 par. 103 (a) Table 42: Total number of incidents of discrimination, including harassment reported in the reporting period Reporting year 2024 Total number of incidents of discrimination, including harassment reported in the reporting period 6 (20 reported, 6 confirmed and 14 unsubstantiated) S1-17_03-05, 07 Table 43: Number of complaints* filed through channels for employees to raise concerns (including grievance mechanisms) and number of complaints filed to National Contact Points for OECD Multinational Enterprises Reporting year 2024 Number of complaints filed through channels for employees to raise concerns (including grievance mechanisms) 580** Number of complaints filed to National Contact Points for OECD Multinational Enterprises 0 * Please note that in some countries in which CCH operates, there are different complaint processes and people may need to approach other authorities to file a complaint, so some complaints may not be included above. ** 580 is the total number of complaints (all issue types) excluding the 20 reported as harassment/discrimination. S1-17_08-12 & S1-17_14 In 2024, there were no findings of human rights violations related to our employees, and no severe human rights incidents occurred during the reporting period. As a result, no remediation actions or fines were required. S1-17_13- V We received 20 cases of alleged discrimination: six of the matters were investigated in accordance with Company policies and procedures and were found to be substantiated. The Company took immediate action, and the matters have been resolved; the other 14 of the matters were investigated in accordance with Company policies and procedures and were found to be unsubstantiated. The matters have been resolved, and no further action is required. Initiatives to promote an inclusive workplace with appropriate leadership behaviours include inclusive leadership modules available in several of our local languages. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 145 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Strategy SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model S2.SBM-3_01, 02, 03, 05, 06 At CCHBC, all value chain workers who may be materially impacted by our operations are included in the scope of disclosures under ESRS 2. This encompasses addressing impacts linked to our own operations and value chain, including those arising from our products, services and business relationships. We specifically report on key areas such as secure employment, adequate wages, health and safety, gender equality, equal pay for work of equal value, and training and skills development. Types of value chain workers We consider value chain workers, workers working on our sites, but who are not part of own workforce, i.e., who are not self-employed workers or workers provided by third-party undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities. In essence: • They are outsourced to a separate company that manages its own staff; • Coca-Cola HBC does not directly control the workers; instead, it has a business relationship with the service provider; • The responsibility for managing and employing the workers lies with the service provider, even if the work is performed at CCHBC’s premises; • The external service provide retains responsibility for hiring, managing and supervising, and CCHBC has a business relationship with the service provider, not the individual workers. Examples include pickers and forklift drivers in our warehouses, workers sorting our empty reusable bottles at our plant facilities, cleaning services workers and workers working at our wastewater treatment facilities in the plants and drivers of the delivery trucks by our outsourced logistics. We also consider value chain workers, a variety of workers in the supply base that execute various activities either in an office context or within the agricultural sector and industrial sectors. Our supply base focus is Tier 1 suppliers and aspire to cover for the Tier 2 or below suppliers through the Supplier’s commitment on SGPs or PSA in the case of agricultural ingredients. In Coca-Cola HBC, 100% of vendors must acknowledge acceptance of CCH SGPs before they can proceed to work with us across sectors and sourcing categories and are monitored on compliance through various tools depending on complexity and criticality of their operations. Specifically, the Strategic Group Suppliers, we actively ask them to confirm ESG compliance including social and human rights attributes, for their critical supply base, i.e. T2 layer or below for CCH. This equally includes white and blue collar works across industries. Specifically for agricultural suppliers, we aspire to cover 100% of our supply base through PSA certifications provided by third-party specialists, which are specifically covering through audits, the practices of farmers and their positioning towards workers of the land such as SAI FSA, ISCC Plus, BONSUCRO, REDcert2, Rainforest Alliance, FairTrade International, Global GAP+GRASP, Global GAP+FSA Add-On, UNILEVER SAC, etc. Our negative effect We have no widespread or systemic material negative impacts on value chain workers in contexts where we operate. Regardless of the high occupational health and safety standards we require by our contractors and service providers, we still report lost time accidents which is the reason to consider negative impact there. Any occupational health and safety incidents are individual. One value chain worker’s fatality was reported in 2024. The contractor lost-time incidents frequency rate (LTIFR) in 2024 is decreasing to 1.31 compared to 1.72 in 2023. ESRS S2 – Workers in the value chain Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 146 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Brief description of the activities that result in the positive impacts In general People who are considered as value chain workers, such as staff of third-party service providers, (e.g., for security or canteens), who work at our facilities are part of our OH&S, Food Safety, including WASH (clean water and sanitation) access, and Environmental programmes. In addition, they are included in all our Workplace Accountability audits, which are conducted through an internationally recognised and accredited auditing organisation. The audits specifically cover third-party contracted labour in our premises. Third-party logistics workers (warehouse, transport and distribution) are also mandated to follow our quality, health and safety and environmental standards. At CCHBC, we have a robust programme in place to annually review every year the risks and performance of all our suppliers against our Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs), Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), Water Risk Assessment, as well as other equally important aspects with impact on our business, such as supply risk and financial stability. Sustainability is a key criterion in supplier selection under strategic sourcing, as well as a criterion for the Annual Supplier Review process that we conduct cross-functionally for critical supply base. To ensure that suppliers demonstrate ESG requirements compliance, we rely in multiple screening and assessment practices that offer us a holistic view of their performance, leveraging multiple tools depending on Supplier categorisation, criticality and impact to our business. The Sustainable Agriculture programme secures ESG monitoring through PSA certification process of the Coca- Cola System across all agricultural commodities. For the remaining supply base, we have designed a robust assessment journey leveraging ESG physical audits, as well as a number of globally recognised screening and assessment tools, such as EcoVadis IQ Plus, EcoVadis Assessments, SEDEX, Supply Based Assessment executed by specialist consultants for Group Critical suppliers, WWF Water Risk Filter Assessment, Resilinc Event Watch, Exiger and Moody’s Analytics. One of our Mission 2025 commitments is to ensure that 100% of our key agricultural ingredients (sugar, high fructose starch syrup (HFSS) and Juices fruit crops) are certified by third-party organisations that specialise in agricultural practices providing trainings and implementing audit to secure appropriate implementation of our standards. For full compliance with our PSA, we require our agricultural suppliers to be assessed and certified in accordance with third-party standards, depending on the relevant ingredient. For a comprehensive list of standards, please refer at the text above ‘Types of value chain workers’. Furthermore, ingredient and packaging suppliers must meet GFSI recognised standards, and Tier 1 suppliers are prompted to comply with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45000 as applicable depending on their industry specifics, as well as impact and criticality to our business. Finally, we target over 95% of our procurement addressable spending to be on local suppliers in our countries of operation (local sourcing). In 2024, we had 97.7% sourced locally representing around €5.3 billion (excluding concentrate supplies) of procurement addressable spend. Supply within European Union we define as local to EU countries. Through our socio-economic impact studies (SEIS), we evaluate the direct, indirect and induced impact we have from suppliers to our trade partners and our contribution is significant, especially in emerging markets. The latest SEIS shows that every direct job in our system leads to 13 jobs in the value chain, and in many of the countries where we operate, our contribution to the beverage industry is significant. For the supplier workforce, we secure equal access employment, adequate wages, health and safety, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, training and skills development through the application and compliance tracking of the supplier SGPs and PSAs. Workers in the value chain are supported with training and capability building programmes offered by supplier organisations and Coca-Cola HBC to develop understanding of the sustainability elements and positive impacts and are supported to operate in a new innovative manner that secures smooth transition to climate-neutral operations without the loss of jobs. This is a journey of transition that takes time, but we work with our most significant suppliers to support and record improvement. Gradually jobs are transformed to support the new models and secured at a minimum, while in many cases we detect the creation of new positions and opportunities by supplier organisations to support the climate transition. Access to education Since 2023, we have established annual trainings delivered both to our buyers and our significant suppliers on various topics, including ESG requirements, actions to improve ESG scoring, the importance of sustainability, the EcoVadis Assessments, deforestation, modern slavery and GHG emissions. For strategic suppliers, we aim to recruit them all under the EcoVadis Assessment Platform to track ESG overall performance and, with the support of the EcoVadis team, we promote the use of the EcoVadis Academy to help vendors build better knowledge of important ESG elements. We place specific focus on developing GHG performance tracking for our supply base, starting with a pilot programme for the development of supplier-specific emission factors (SSEFs) with our most sustainably mature suppliers that is now planned to be expanded within 2025 to a much broader supply base. For less mature suppliers, since 2022 we have been working with Guidehouse on capacity building programmes, offering training through the Supplier Leadership on Climate Transition (SLoCT) programme annually. This initiative helps our less mature suppliers build a strong foundation to start reducing GHG emissions. In November 2023, we held our second Virtual Supplier Sustainability Event, ‘Opening up a more sustainable future together’, where we invited all our Group critical suppliers to discuss emissions reduction, biodiversity and deforestation. Over 400 participants from nearly 200 suppliers, Coca-Cola System colleagues, and trade partners attended our virtual Supplier Day conference. Our partners, CDP and the World Economic Forum, provided expert guidance, tools and tips for suppliers on climate action. Additionally, our suppliers Nordzucker, Ball Corporation and Graphic Packaging International shared their sustainability progress. In 2024, we expanded upon this initiative, engaging with our key suppliers on GHG performance. Through this engagement we have begun developing emissions glidepaths to enhance supplier emissions performance, aiming to meet our scope 3 targets. For more information about Annual stakeholder forum please refer to SBM-2_05, 06. Read more Contribution to employment Please see S1. SBM-3_01-04, 06, 11 (Contribution to Employment Accessibility to a living wage We expect our suppliers to compensate their employees fairly and competitively within their industry, fully complying with applicable local and national wage and hour laws. Additionally, we encourage our suppliers to provide opportunities for employees to develop their skills and capabilities, and to adhere to the principle of equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 147 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued We aspire to secure correct practices towards supplier workers through the SGPs and PSA implementation. In Coca-Cola HBC, 100% of our suppliers are obliged to acknowledge and agree to the SGPs before obtaining the right to do business with us, while we apply different monitoring tools to track compliance depending on supplier category and impact to our business ranging from ESG performance tracking by means of tools such as EcoVadis IQ Plus all the way to full scale assessments such as EcoVadis Assessment, SEDEX and SGP physical audits. On agricultural level, we leverage our third-party specialists to conduct audits against the PSA principles, that are covering in an extensive manner all rules and requirements to secure farmer workers. Provision of social protection and social security Contractors who work on our premises are included in our programmes and workplace accountability audits, conducted within a three-year audit cycle. During these audits, they are assessed on human rights, and compliance with local minimum wage laws is verified by an external company. The workplace accountability audits cover various areas, including laws and regulations, wages and benefits, working hours and overtime, business Integrity, work environment, health and safety, environmental practices and demonstration of compliance. Occupational Health and Safety In the context of our implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Management System (ISO 45001), we take actions which have in scope value chain workers. We implement health and safety programmes, including Behavioural Based Safety and Life Saving Rules: • We enhanced our behaviour-based safety programme by embedding more human and operational principles across manufacturing and non-manufacturing locations. • We ensured Life Saving Rules are in place and incorporated in our cross-country verification programme. We conducted quarterly assessments of all manufacturing and non- manufacturing facilities. Based on these assessments, each country has developed its own corrective actions to address critical gaps and achieve full compliance. Value chain workers in greater risk of harm The service provided workers performing a job at our premises are part of the same rigorous hazardous analysis related to the occupational health and safety, as our employees, e.g., confined space work, work at height, electrical work, etc. Based on those analysis and based on the external occupational health and safety guidelines, we know the jobs that potentially can lead to severe OH&S incidents and thus we set up specific measures to mitigate the potential risks and avoid the incident to happen. Impact, risk and opportunity management S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers S2.MDR-P_01-06 & S2-1_06 The relevant policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters include our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), as well as our Supplier Guiding Principles, which have been adopted as part of ongoing effort to develop and strengthen our relationships with our direct suppliers. These policies cover all types of value chain workers mentioned in the previous section. Occupational Health and Safety Policy Please see S1.MDR-P_01-06 & S1-1_01, 02, 09, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 21 Supplier Guiding Principles Key contents of the policy The ‘Supplier Guiding Principles’ includes expectations regarding CCHBC’s suppliers to: • judge their employees and contractors based upon their ability to do their jobs and not upon their physical and/or personal characteristics or beliefs, affirming the principle of no discrimination based on race, colour, gender, age, religion, political opinion, national origin or sexual orientation; • provide a safe workplace with policies and practices in place to minimise the risk of accidents, injury and exposure to health risks; • compensate their employees fairly and competitively relative to their industry, in full compliance with applicable local and national wage and hour laws, and to offer opportunities for employees to develop their skills and capabilities, and to follow the principle of equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value. Objective Through this policy, we seek to develop relationships with suppliers that share similar values and conduct business in an ethical manner. Process for monitoring Regarding the process for monitoring this policy, in Coca-Cola HBC 100% of our supplier are obliged to acknowledge and agree to the SGPs before obtaining the right to do business with us, while we apply different monitoring tools to track compliance depending on supplier category and impact to our business. To this purpose we use various tools, ranging from EcoVadis IQ Plus all the way to full scale assessments such SGP physical audits, SEDEX and EcoVadis Assessment. We collaborate with TCCC, which routinely utilises independent third parties to assess suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Guiding Principles. The assessments include confidential interviews with employees and on-site contract workers. Scope As part of ongoing efforts to develop and strengthen our relationships with suppliers, we have adopted these Supplier Guiding Principles for use with our direct suppliers. Most senior level accountable for the implementation of the policy Each sustainability policy is approved by the CEO and the ELT and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board. The Chief Supply Chain Officer and Chief Procurement Officer are accountable for the implementation of the policy. Commitment to respect third-party standards We commit through the implementation of Supplier Guiding Principles to respect applicable laws and standards with respect to their operations (e.g., ILO Standards, etc.) Consideration given to the interests of key stakeholders in setting the policy In developing the SGP, we have considered international standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 45000, the ILO and the UN Principles. We have also considered the requirements of investors and ESG raters such as S&P Global, MSCI ESG and CDP as well as the practices of peer companies who are part of UNESDA and BIER (Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable). Additionally, we have incorporated good practices recommended by NGOs such as WWF, and input from our suppliers. Policy available to potentially affected stakeholders All policies are available on our website. At business unit level, they are translated and, additionally, suppliers are mandated to sign our SGP, which is included as part of our contracts. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 148 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-A_04 As seen, we have established a comprehensive action plan and implemented several actions related to circular economy and packaging. By those actions, we demonstrate our support to nature and to people independently on whether they are harmed or not. In 2024, no negative incident related to circular economy has been recorded. Financial Resources E5.MDR-A_06, 07, 09, 11 Specifically, to support our actions related to the expansion of reusable/refillable packaging, we make investments every year for the renewal or increase of the returnable containers fleet. In 2024, this investment reached €59 million. We also invested €9.5 million in production infrastructure, mainly for new returnable glass production lines in Italy and Nigeria. In addition, we invest significant amounts to support our action plan around the increase of recycled content in our packaging, specifically by expanding the use of recycled PET. Building on the significant in-house rPET production infrastructure investments we have made in the past few years in Italy, Poland and Romania, we allocated €30 million in 2024 to support the higher cost of recycled PET compared with virgin PET. The Capex and cost of packaging materials mentioned above are reflected in our ‘Financial Statements’, in the cash flow statement and the income statement, respectively. Moving ahead, we will continue to support our circular economy action plan as required. Specifically for 2025, we plan to continue our investments in production infrastructure in Italy to support the RGB expansion in the market, and we will allocate significant Capex on returnable containers across our markets. We also expect that the higher spend for recycled PET compared with virgin PET will increase further to approximately €60 million, as we accelerate our performance against our Mission 2025 target, but also due to the EU requirement for a 25% minimum recycled content on PET beverage bottles. To support our actions, financial resources must be secured through targeted allocation. Our sustainable finance approach underpins the Group’s ability to align funding strategies with sustainability commitments, while supporting the UN SDGs and the EU Environmental Objectives. Financing mechanisms include a diverse range of instruments, ensuring flexibility in meeting both current and future financial requirements for action plans. Metrics and targets E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3_01 We have set voluntary targets that promote circular economy, and they are designed to address both resource inflows and outflows, and the lifecycle of products and materials. E5-3_02 Our objective is to keep our primary packaging 100% recyclable by design. Therefore, we have established a target related to circular product design, which is already achieved. We have made our primary packaging 100% fully recyclable three years ahead of the expected timeline and 2025 target. For us, recyclability is calculated as technical recyclability by design, and here we consider all beverage packaging which is made of glass, aluminium/steel, PET and aseptic cartons. All of those are able to be recycled fully. We consider as technical recyclability by design any reuse or recycle option for those materials. In the definition, we do not take into consideration the packaging collection rates in every country. E5-3_03 & E5-3_04 Our resource inflows targets focus on the continuous improvement of recycled material use. They have a double role, since by increasing their recycled content, the rates of primary raw materials decline. The targets refer to the recycled PET used for plastic bottles. Furthermore, we aim to remove an additional 2,800 tonnes of our light-weight packaging by 2025 compared with 2023 data. E5-3_05 & E5-3_09 As already stated, we aim to source all our paper- based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources. Now, 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) we use are FSC®-certified. Driven by the materiality results, and focusing on the material topics, our targets address the prevention layer (including the reduction) of the waste hierarchy pyramid, as well as recycling and recovering. Returnable glass bottles address reuse layer of the waste hierarchy. E5.MDR-T_01 The majority of those targets are connected with the Packaging Waste Management Policy and reflect total Group targets. To track our performance and our contribution to the final target, every year we set a yearly target as an annual milestone. E5.MDR-T_12 For our targets we use actual data to report the progress, e.g., for recyclability we use the technical by design data of our primary packaging materials (glass, PET, aluminium/steel can, paper, aseptic paper). Our time horizons could be an annual goal aligned with the Business Planning process (BP), mid-term targets aligned with our long-range plan (LRP) and business objectives, or long-term targets such as NetZeroby40 aligned with the external trends. All those targets, however, are disaggregated to annual roadmaps, and our regular performance review is two-pronged: a) versus the annual roadmap; and b) versus the direction of the target year. On this way, we are able to set actions and correct course if needed. E5-3_01 & E5-3_09 & E5.MDR-T_02 – E5.MDR-T_08 Table 28 below provides further details on each target, including their characteristics (targets’ level, their units, their time-boundaries, the progress made over the baseline measurements), illustrating how they contribute to our overall sustainability goals and circular economy principles. Targets are voluntary. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 125 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Table 28: List of targets Targets Type of target Target duration Baseline and Baseline number Target to be achieved Value chain and geographical boundaries 2024 status Alignment with international initiative Stakeholders Involvement Planning to achieve the target Relation to waste hierarchy Recyclability by design Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (99%) 100% of consumer packaging to be recyclable Upstream/Global Percentage of recyclable by design materials from main packaging used in 2024: 100% Sustainable Development Goal 8, 9, 11, 12, 14 & 17 Suppliers 2025 Recycling Light-weight Packaging Absolute in tonnes 2023-2025 2023 Remove 2,800 tonnes of packaging through light-weighting our packaging Own operations/ Global Continue implementing best in class packaging weight Suppliers, Customers Prevention (Reduce) PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (9%) 35% of PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Upstream & Own Operations/Global 23.8% rPET (placed on the market in 2024) Suppliers, Customers 2025 Recycling 50% of PET used from recycled PET and/or PET from renewable material Upstream & Own Operations/EU countries and Switzerland 45.9% rPET (placed on the market in 2024) Suppliers, Customers 2025 Zero Waste partnerships (city and/or coast) Absolute 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (0) Engage in 20 zero waste partnerships (city and/or coast) Downstream/Global 20 out of 20 zero waste projects NGOs, Communities, Local municipalities 2025 – Collection rate of our primary packaging placed on the market Relative in % 2018-2025 (8 years) 2017 (41%) Help collect the equivalent of 75% of our primary packaging Downstream/Global 57% оf primary packaging placed on the market in 2024 (including Egypt); Excluding Egypt, the amount is 58% Government and Regulators, Peer companies, Customers, Suppliers, NGOs 2025 Recycling Coca-Cola System-owned & operated packaging collection facility Absolute in tonnes 2025 2024 Collect 1,000 metric tonnes of packaging materials Downstream/Nigeria In 2024, together with TCCC, the Coca-Cola system-owned packaging collection facility was completed NGOs, Communities, Local municipalities. Government and Regulators, Peer companies >2025 Recycling Paper Bricks Absolute in % Continue (rolling target) n/a Source all our paper-based primary packaging materials from sustainable forest sources Upstream/Global 100% of our paper bricks (aseptic carton) used are FSC-certified Suppliers >2030 – Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 126 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5.MDR-T_12 & E5-3_13 & E5.MDR-T_01 We have not changed any of our targets, as for us any sustainability target means to deliver, to execute – an opposite of an aspirational target. The Single Use Plastics Directive, which was introduced after our 2025 commitments, applies only to EU Member States. However, we have voluntarily extended these commitments to include our other markets, ensuring they reflect our entire value chain. E5-3_13 & E5.MDR-T_09 The Single Use Plastics Directive imposed in 2019 a 77% separate collection target of PET beverage bottles by 2025 and a recycled content target of 25% in PET beverage bottles. For our collection targets, these were set in 2018, following a previous commitment of 40% total packaging collected by 2020, which we had already overachieved in 2018. For 2025, we have set ambitious targets as an average for all our markets. Not all markets are in the EU, therefore the 75% on average was much more ambitious than the Single Use Plastic Directive or any other local targets. The Single Use Plastic Directive also only defines collection for PET bottles whereas we are going beyond this, including all our primary packaging (such as glass bottles and aluminium cans). For recycled content, this is also above Single Use Plastic Directive targets for 2025. E5.MDR-T_13 We have specialised software to monitor and review for each of our ESG goals/targets, and we report monthly the actual performance and status (if we are on track, lagging behind or partly on track) to the members of the ELT who are accountable for the respective KPIs. The actuals are easily available in our EDGE dashboards. Quarterly, the performance and the related actions to achieve the annual goals are reported to the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors. E5.MDR-T_10 & E5.MDR-T_11 We have also involved our stakeholders in the process of target-setting. We use the industry best practices for setting the targets and clearly describe the calculations and methods used in our internal guidebooks. Feedback by NGOs, industry associations such as UNESDA, and suppliers, but also strategic initiatives such as the UN SDGs, are considered. Stakeholder engagement is pivotal, particularly through Annual Stakeholder Forums and frequent meetings with all relevant stakeholders (NGOs, peer companies, customers, municipalities). The insights gathered from these engagements, along with the expectations of ESG raters and investors, inform the setting of ambitious, data-driven targets. E5-3_08 We strive to minimise food loss and food waste in our operations. Our target to tackle food waste and loss across our activities and operations is: to decrease our absolute food losses (in dry matter) by 30% by 2025 compared to our 2019 baseline despite volume growth, an increase in portfolio/beverage categories, and expansion to emerging markets, and further reduce by 40% by 2030 vs 2019. Food loss and waste at our manufacturing sites are part of the overall waste management process. We strive to reach 100% recycled waste and zero waste to landfill in manufacturing. We have reduced the percentage of manufacturing waste going to landfill significantly: in 2024, only 1.6% of our manufacturing waste went to landfill, while in 2015 it was 10.1%. This means in 2024 98.4% of total manufacturing waste was recycled or used for alternative usage.. E5-4 Resource inflows E5-4_01 Resource inflows, relevant to upstream activities and reported within this chapter, take into account the results of the materiality analysis. This analysis has identified packaging inflows as a material topic. Our packaging inflows include different streams of packaging, such as: • Plastic, which is used for plastic bottles, closures, HDPE/LDPE bottles, labels and stretch/shrink films; • Glass, which is used for glass bottles; • Metal, which are used for aluminium cans and metal crowns; and • Paper, which is used for paper labels, composite aseptic carton, cardboard and wood pallets). All data relevant to our packaging inflows quantities that we used during the reporting period is disclosed in the following table. E5-4_02 – E5-4_05 Table 29: Material Inflows Indicators Parameters Unit 2024 The overall total weight of products (beverage+packaging) Tonnes 20,382,929 The overall total weight of technical materials used (ingredients + packaging materials) Tonnes 2,143,227 Total Plastic Tonnes 427,749 PET (bottles) Tonnes 346,143 Plant-Pet Tonnes 0 Plastic (closures + HDPE/LDPE bottles) Tonnes 30,268 PE (labels and stretch/shrink films) Tonnes 51,338 Total Glass Tonnes 193,285 Glass (Bottles) Tonnes 193,285 Total Metal Tonnes 80,508 Aluminium (cans) Tonnes 73,608 Metal (crowns) Tonnes 6,900 Total Paper Tonnes 153,133 Paper (labels) Tonnes 1,318 Composite carton (Tetra Pak, bricks) Tonnes 26,232 Cardboard Tonnes 72,788 Wood (pallets) Tonnes 52,795 Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 127 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued 1. Excluding water. Parameters Unit 2024 The weight of secondary reused or recycled components used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Tonnes 199,648 The weight of secondary reused or recycled components used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Percentage 23% out of total packaging materials The weight of secondary intermediary products used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Tonnes 0 The weight of secondary intermediary products used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Percentage 0 The weight of secondary materials used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Tonnes 0 The weight of secondary materials used to manufacture CCHBC’s products and services (including packaging) Percentage 0 Data Methodology E5-4_06 The data derives from direct measurements, detailing each material that enters our operations. The data is based on the purchased volume we use either for the manufacturing of our packaging (only in the in-house rPET plants) or for the packaging which is being supplied from external suppliers. The data relevant to recycled content for the packaging is based on our suppliers’ data, and then we calculate the weighted average based on the amount purchased by each of those suppliers. E5-4_08 We ensure that there is no overlap or double counting between the categories of reused and recycled materials. Reusable glass bottles are reported only with the new number of bottles purchased in the respective year. We have invoices and number of purchasing orders with the respective amount purchased for all materials that are entering in our plants. In our systems, we have master data of each material which is part of the product recipe, meaning that for each of our produced products, we know how much material we have used. The same for resource outflows – we know the exact amount of every ingredient and packaging material used in any sold products. Reusable packaging is not reported to the Packaging Recovery Organisations (PROs) for the floating volumes (i.e., all the bottles in circulation). We report only the new quantities of bottles purchased each year. This approach assumes that new bottle purchases are not solely due to increased volume but also because some reusable bottles were not collected and ended up in the recycling stream. Additionally, once reusable bottles reach the end of their lifespan, they will eventually become waste and be recycled. So, we avoid double counting by only reporting to the PROs the new quantities purchased each year, and not the whole floating (or in circulation) volume related to reusable/refillable glass bottles. E5-5 Resource outflows Outflows Resource outflows are another material topic for us. E5-5_01 We are committed to incorporate more circular principles in our production processes, and for that purpose we have implemented key actions and innovations. Now, five of our water brands are sold in 100% rPET bottles: Romerquelle (Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia), Deep RiverRock (Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland), Valser (Switzerland), Dorna (Romania) and Natura (Czech Republic and Slovakia). Switzerland was also our first country to move its entire locally produced PET portfolio to 100% rPET. This was followed by Italy1 and Austria, and in 2023, Romania, the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland also transitioned to 100% rPET for the locally produced PET portfolio. In addition, since 2023, Romania successfully combined a 100% rPET local bottle portfolio, an in-house rPET facility and a Deposit Return Scheme, helping us close the loop for plastic packaging circularity. We continue our use of recycled shrink film in Ireland, where our Deep RiverRock water multipacks are packaged in Reborn®, a fully recycled plastic film made from post-industrial and post-consumer waste. We are exploring opportunities to launch Reborn® in other markets. Our corrugated cardboard packaging in Europe contains >80% recycled content, while our composite paper carton packs, KeelClipTM, Qflex and LitePac Top, are 100% FSC-certified. Our wooden pallets are 100% reusable. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 128 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued E5-5_04 As mentioned, we ensure that our packaging includes recyclable content. For 2024, the overall recyclable content rate of our packaging is 100%. We do not engage in the production or commercialisation of durable plastic goods and/or components, including those made from mixed materials. Additionally, we do not produce goods with an expected usage period exceeding three years. Our beverages, in particular, have a significantly shorter expected usage period, defined by their shelf life which is between four and 12 months. Extended Producer’s Responsibility E5-5_18 We make strong efforts to ensure that our products, especially their packaging materials, will not end up as waste. We prove our engagement in product end-of-life waste management, since, as mentioned earlier, we support the foundation of effective and efficient collection systems in all our markets. We are leading industry efforts to introduce DRS across the majority of our EU countries. In 2024, we played a pivotal role in the successful go-live of new DRS in Romania, Ireland and Hungary. Well-designed DRS have a proven track record of delivering very high collection rates, typically over 90%, once the schemes reach maturity. We are encouraged by the results from year 1 in Romania, where the scheme was delivering an average return rate of 76% for all in-scope containers across the last three months of the year. Additionally, our teams in Austria, Poland and Greece have been making intensive preparations to support successful DRS launches in 2025. These extensive preparations include the development of DRS business plans, the establishment of a new DRS administrator company in Poland, as well as the extensive internal planning to ensure that DRS-compliant packaging is available to the consumer on shelf in time. Coca-Cola HBC is also heavily involved in EPR systems in 25 of our countries, and members of the supervisory board in 16 of these countries. Extended producer responsibility is a policy approach that holds producers accountable for their products throughout the entire lifecycle, including the post-consumer stage. Further information is available at Ε5-2 ‘Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy’. Data methodology E5-5_06 The relevant data used is sourced mainly from direct measurements, which are taken from our production and operational records. Products are classified as designed along circular principles if they are recyclable by design. This means that the packaging is compatible with waste management and processing, including collection, sorting, recycling and the use of recycled materials to replace primary raw materials. We know the exact amount of every ingredient and packaging material used in any sold products. For packaging collection data, we have a calculation methodology document which details step by step how the data is collected. We report to our collection systems the amounts of packaging per type of material placed on the market. They then report back to us via emails and reports how much equivalent packaging was collected for recycling – this is validated following the Packaging Recovery Organisation’s (PRO’s) own external auditing processes. This is done per material type, both for primary and for secondary/tertiary packaging. If packaging materials contain the amount of the same material coming from post-consumer waste, they are with recycled content. The percentage of recycled content in our products and packaging is determined based on actual data from our suppliers and on what we have been using in our production. E5-6 Anticipated financial effects from material resource use and circular economy- related risks and opportunities E5-6_02, 03, 04 Given the potential impact that significant changes to our packaging mix could have to longer-term capital investment in production and distribution, and the influence that packaging has on our ability to meet our NetZeroby40 commitments – packaging represents over 30% of our emissions – managing the risk and opportunity associated with sustainable packaging directly impacts and is impacted by our future business strategy. It is closely linked with the ‘Managing our carbon footprint’ risk, which is covered in detail under ESRS E1 ‘Climate change’. During 2024, we continued building on our Pack Mix of the Future vision. The development of a profitable packaging strategy aims to reduce our environmental impact, address escalating stakeholder concerns relating to packaging waste and takes into account new EU regulations such as the EU Directive on packaging and packaging waste. Initiatives such as increasing the use of recycled and refillable packaging and decarbonisation in the packaging industry contribute significantly to our journey towards NetZeroby40. Based on the 2024 quantification of this risk we expect higher cost of packaging materials, mainly rPET, aluminium and glass. The quantification was performed by applying the projected carbon price per packaging material under different climate scenarios to the corresponding packaging emissions as per our glidepath to 2040. These financial effects are anticipated to arise in the mid to long term. While the timing remains uncertain, we are aligning our strategy with the evolving market conditions. Failing to respond to consumers’ concerns about packaging could also impact our reputation and consumer base, potentially leading to revenue losses for products that do not meet sustainability standards. Other challenges associated with packaging relate to dependencies on sourcing sustainable materials from suppliers, and to the increasing regulatory focus on impacts to natural ecosystems caused by packaging waste. E5-6_05 & E5-6_06 Our assessment shows we do not have any product at risk in the short-, medium- or long- term horizon. For the assessment of products at risk, the same time horizons as those used in the Double Materiality Assessment were applied, as presented in the E1.IRO-1_05. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 129 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Strategy SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model S2.SBM-3_01, 02, 03, 05, 06 At CCHBC, all value chain workers who may be materially impacted by our operations are included in the scope of disclosures under ESRS 2. This encompasses addressing impacts linked to our own operations and value chain, including those arising from our products, services and business relationships. We specifically report on key areas such as secure employment, adequate wages, health and safety, gender equality, equal pay for work of equal value, and training and skills development. Types of value chain workers We consider value chain workers, workers working on our sites, but who are not part of own workforce, i.e., who are not self-employed workers or workers provided by third-party undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities. In essence: • They are outsourced to a separate company that manages its own staff; • Coca-Cola HBC does not directly control the workers; instead, it has a business relationship with the service provider; • The responsibility for managing and employing the workers lies with the service provider, even if the work is performed at CCHBC’s premises; • The external service provide retains responsibility for hiring, managing and supervising, and CCHBC has a business relationship with the service provider, not the individual workers. Examples include pickers and forklift drivers in our warehouses, workers sorting our empty reusable bottles at our plant facilities, cleaning services workers and workers working at our wastewater treatment facilities in the plants and drivers of the delivery trucks by our outsourced logistics. We also consider value chain workers, a variety of workers in the supply base that execute various activities either in an office context or within the agricultural sector and industrial sectors. Our supply base focus is Tier 1 suppliers and aspire to cover for the Tier 2 or below suppliers through the Supplier’s commitment on SGPs or PSA in the case of agricultural ingredients. In Coca-Cola HBC, 100% of vendors must acknowledge acceptance of CCH SGPs before they can proceed to work with us across sectors and sourcing categories and are monitored on compliance through various tools depending on complexity and criticality of their operations. Specifically, the Strategic Group Suppliers, we actively ask them to confirm ESG compliance including social and human rights attributes, for their critical supply base, i.e. T2 layer or below for CCH. This equally includes white and blue collar works across industries. Specifically for agricultural suppliers, we aspire to cover 100% of our supply base through PSA certifications provided by third-party specialists, which are specifically covering through audits, the practices of farmers and their positioning towards workers of the land such as SAI FSA, ISCC Plus, BONSUCRO, REDcert2, Rainforest Alliance, FairTrade International, Global GAP+GRASP, Global GAP+FSA Add-On, UNILEVER SAC, etc. Our negative effect We have no widespread or systemic material negative impacts on value chain workers in contexts where we operate. Regardless of the high occupational health and safety standards we require by our contractors and service providers, we still report lost time accidents which is the reason to consider negative impact there. Any occupational health and safety incidents are individual. One value chain worker’s fatality was reported in 2024. The contractor lost-time incidents frequency rate (LTIFR) in 2024 is decreasing to 1.31 compared to 1.72 in 2023. ESRS S2 – Workers in the value chain Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 146 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Brief description of the activities that result in the positive impacts In general People who are considered as value chain workers, such as staff of third-party service providers, (e.g., for security or canteens), who work at our facilities are part of our OH&S, Food Safety, including WASH (clean water and sanitation) access, and Environmental programmes. In addition, they are included in all our Workplace Accountability audits, which are conducted through an internationally recognised and accredited auditing organisation. The audits specifically cover third-party contracted labour in our premises. Third-party logistics workers (warehouse, transport and distribution) are also mandated to follow our quality, health and safety and environmental standards. At CCHBC, we have a robust programme in place to annually review every year the risks and performance of all our suppliers against our Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs), Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), Water Risk Assessment, as well as other equally important aspects with impact on our business, such as supply risk and financial stability. Sustainability is a key criterion in supplier selection under strategic sourcing, as well as a criterion for the Annual Supplier Review process that we conduct cross-functionally for critical supply base. To ensure that suppliers demonstrate ESG requirements compliance, we rely in multiple screening and assessment practices that offer us a holistic view of their performance, leveraging multiple tools depending on Supplier categorisation, criticality and impact to our business. The Sustainable Agriculture programme secures ESG monitoring through PSA certification process of the Coca- Cola System across all agricultural commodities. For the remaining supply base, we have designed a robust assessment journey leveraging ESG physical audits, as well as a number of globally recognised screening and assessment tools, such as EcoVadis IQ Plus, EcoVadis Assessments, SEDEX, Supply Based Assessment executed by specialist consultants for Group Critical suppliers, WWF Water Risk Filter Assessment, Resilinc Event Watch, Exiger and Moody’s Analytics. One of our Mission 2025 commitments is to ensure that 100% of our key agricultural ingredients (sugar, high fructose starch syrup (HFSS) and Juices fruit crops) are certified by third-party organisations that specialise in agricultural practices providing trainings and implementing audit to secure appropriate implementation of our standards. For full compliance with our PSA, we require our agricultural suppliers to be assessed and certified in accordance with third-party standards, depending on the relevant ingredient. For a comprehensive list of standards, please refer at the text above ‘Types of value chain workers’. Furthermore, ingredient and packaging suppliers must meet GFSI recognised standards, and Tier 1 suppliers are prompted to comply with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45000 as applicable depending on their industry specifics, as well as impact and criticality to our business. Finally, we target over 95% of our procurement addressable spending to be on local suppliers in our countries of operation (local sourcing). In 2024, we had 97.7% sourced locally representing around €5.3 billion (excluding concentrate supplies) of procurement addressable spend. Supply within European Union we define as local to EU countries. Through our socio-economic impact studies (SEIS), we evaluate the direct, indirect and induced impact we have from suppliers to our trade partners and our contribution is significant, especially in emerging markets. The latest SEIS shows that every direct job in our system leads to 13 jobs in the value chain, and in many of the countries where we operate, our contribution to the beverage industry is significant. For the supplier workforce, we secure equal access employment, adequate wages, health and safety, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, training and skills development through the application and compliance tracking of the supplier SGPs and PSAs. Workers in the value chain are supported with training and capability building programmes offered by supplier organisations and Coca-Cola HBC to develop understanding of the sustainability elements and positive impacts and are supported to operate in a new innovative manner that secures smooth transition to climate-neutral operations without the loss of jobs. This is a journey of transition that takes time, but we work with our most significant suppliers to support and record improvement. Gradually jobs are transformed to support the new models and secured at a minimum, while in many cases we detect the creation of new positions and opportunities by supplier organisations to support the climate transition. Access to education Since 2023, we have established annual trainings delivered both to our buyers and our significant suppliers on various topics, including ESG requirements, actions to improve ESG scoring, the importance of sustainability, the EcoVadis Assessments, deforestation, modern slavery and GHG emissions. For strategic suppliers, we aim to recruit them all under the EcoVadis Assessment Platform to track ESG overall performance and, with the support of the EcoVadis team, we promote the use of the EcoVadis Academy to help vendors build better knowledge of important ESG elements. We place specific focus on developing GHG performance tracking for our supply base, starting with a pilot programme for the development of supplier-specific emission factors (SSEFs) with our most sustainably mature suppliers that is now planned to be expanded within 2025 to a much broader supply base. For less mature suppliers, since 2022 we have been working with Guidehouse on capacity building programmes, offering training through the Supplier Leadership on Climate Transition (SLoCT) programme annually. This initiative helps our less mature suppliers build a strong foundation to start reducing GHG emissions. In November 2023, we held our second Virtual Supplier Sustainability Event, ‘Opening up a more sustainable future together’, where we invited all our Group critical suppliers to discuss emissions reduction, biodiversity and deforestation. Over 400 participants from nearly 200 suppliers, Coca-Cola System colleagues, and trade partners attended our virtual Supplier Day conference. Our partners, CDP and the World Economic Forum, provided expert guidance, tools and tips for suppliers on climate action. Additionally, our suppliers Nordzucker, Ball Corporation and Graphic Packaging International shared their sustainability progress. In 2024, we expanded upon this initiative, engaging with our key suppliers on GHG performance. Through this engagement we have begun developing emissions glidepaths to enhance supplier emissions performance, aiming to meet our scope 3 targets. For more information about Annual stakeholder forum please refer to SBM-2_05, 06. Read more Contribution to employment Please see S1. SBM-3_01-04, 06, 11 (Contribution to Employment Accessibility to a living wage We expect our suppliers to compensate their employees fairly and competitively within their industry, fully complying with applicable local and national wage and hour laws. Additionally, we encourage our suppliers to provide opportunities for employees to develop their skills and capabilities, and to adhere to the principle of equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 147 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued We aspire to secure correct practices towards supplier workers through the SGPs and PSA implementation. In Coca-Cola HBC, 100% of our suppliers are obliged to acknowledge and agree to the SGPs before obtaining the right to do business with us, while we apply different monitoring tools to track compliance depending on supplier category and impact to our business ranging from ESG performance tracking by means of tools such as EcoVadis IQ Plus all the way to full scale assessments such as EcoVadis Assessment, SEDEX and SGP physical audits. On agricultural level, we leverage our third-party specialists to conduct audits against the PSA principles, that are covering in an extensive manner all rules and requirements to secure farmer workers. Provision of social protection and social security Contractors who work on our premises are included in our programmes and workplace accountability audits, conducted within a three-year audit cycle. During these audits, they are assessed on human rights, and compliance with local minimum wage laws is verified by an external company. The workplace accountability audits cover various areas, including laws and regulations, wages and benefits, working hours and overtime, business Integrity, work environment, health and safety, environmental practices and demonstration of compliance. Occupational Health and Safety In the context of our implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Management System (ISO 45001), we take actions which have in scope value chain workers. We implement health and safety programmes, including Behavioural Based Safety and Life Saving Rules: • We enhanced our behaviour-based safety programme by embedding more human and operational principles across manufacturing and non-manufacturing locations. • We ensured Life Saving Rules are in place and incorporated in our cross-country verification programme. We conducted quarterly assessments of all manufacturing and non- manufacturing facilities. Based on these assessments, each country has developed its own corrective actions to address critical gaps and achieve full compliance. Value chain workers in greater risk of harm The service provided workers performing a job at our premises are part of the same rigorous hazardous analysis related to the occupational health and safety, as our employees, e.g., confined space work, work at height, electrical work, etc. Based on those analysis and based on the external occupational health and safety guidelines, we know the jobs that potentially can lead to severe OH&S incidents and thus we set up specific measures to mitigate the potential risks and avoid the incident to happen. Impact, risk and opportunity management S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers S2.MDR-P_01-06 & S2-1_06 The relevant policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters include our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA), as well as our Supplier Guiding Principles, which have been adopted as part of ongoing effort to develop and strengthen our relationships with our direct suppliers. These policies cover all types of value chain workers mentioned in the previous section. Occupational Health and Safety Policy Please see S1.MDR-P_01-06 & S1-1_01, 02, 09, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 21 Supplier Guiding Principles Key contents of the policy The ‘Supplier Guiding Principles’ includes expectations regarding CCHBC’s suppliers to: • judge their employees and contractors based upon their ability to do their jobs and not upon their physical and/or personal characteristics or beliefs, affirming the principle of no discrimination based on race, colour, gender, age, religion, political opinion, national origin or sexual orientation; • provide a safe workplace with policies and practices in place to minimise the risk of accidents, injury and exposure to health risks; • compensate their employees fairly and competitively relative to their industry, in full compliance with applicable local and national wage and hour laws, and to offer opportunities for employees to develop their skills and capabilities, and to follow the principle of equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value. Objective Through this policy, we seek to develop relationships with suppliers that share similar values and conduct business in an ethical manner. Process for monitoring Regarding the process for monitoring this policy, in Coca-Cola HBC 100% of our supplier are obliged to acknowledge and agree to the SGPs before obtaining the right to do business with us, while we apply different monitoring tools to track compliance depending on supplier category and impact to our business. To this purpose we use various tools, ranging from EcoVadis IQ Plus all the way to full scale assessments such SGP physical audits, SEDEX and EcoVadis Assessment. We collaborate with TCCC, which routinely utilises independent third parties to assess suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Guiding Principles. The assessments include confidential interviews with employees and on-site contract workers. Scope As part of ongoing efforts to develop and strengthen our relationships with suppliers, we have adopted these Supplier Guiding Principles for use with our direct suppliers. Most senior level accountable for the implementation of the policy Each sustainability policy is approved by the CEO and the ELT and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board. The Chief Supply Chain Officer and Chief Procurement Officer are accountable for the implementation of the policy. Commitment to respect third-party standards We commit through the implementation of Supplier Guiding Principles to respect applicable laws and standards with respect to their operations (e.g., ILO Standards, etc.) Consideration given to the interests of key stakeholders in setting the policy In developing the SGP, we have considered international standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 45000, the ILO and the UN Principles. We have also considered the requirements of investors and ESG raters such as S&P Global, MSCI ESG and CDP as well as the practices of peer companies who are part of UNESDA and BIER (Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable). Additionally, we have incorporated good practices recommended by NGOs such as WWF, and input from our suppliers. Policy available to potentially affected stakeholders All policies are available on our website. At business unit level, they are translated and, additionally, suppliers are mandated to sign our SGP, which is included as part of our contracts. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 148 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued Principles for Sustainable Agriculture Key contents of the policy The Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA) describe the Company’s principles for sustainable agriculture based on environmental, social and economic criteria. The Human and Workplace Rights principles apply to all workers on the farm, industrial processes associated or transport services. All direct suppliers, intermediary processors, producing farms and labour agencies are expected to respect human rights and the below principles in line with international human rights principles and TCCC Supplier Guiding Principles. This policy covers topics, such as ‘Work Hours and Livelihoods’, ‘Eliminate Discrimination’ and ‘Health and Safety’, among others. For more information, please visit the Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA). Objective Through ‘Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA)’ we aim at primary production – that is, farm-level – and form the basis of our continued engagement with suppliers to achieve productivity, compliance, transparency, resiliency and continuous improvement of their farm base against these principles. On an agricultural level we leverage our third-party specialists, such as SAI/FSA, VIVE, Bonsucro, etc., to conduct audits against the PSA principles, that are covering in an extensive manner all rules and requirements to secure farmer workers. The results are represented to us by means of certifications obtained, that otherwise would not be awarded to our suppliers when discrepancies occur. We collect these certifications on an annual basis. Process for monitoring We monitor compliance through EcoVadis assessment and action plans, TCCC audit process and sustainable certification schemes. Scope The PSA, as a set of global principles, applies to all agricultural ingredients and plant-based packaging used in TCCC products. For our significant suppliers with substantial potential environmental impact, we also prompt and request that they embrace CDP for Climate, Forest and Water for disclosure of more detailed information and that they also build their own SBTi/SBTN commitments. So far, we have recruited 187 significant suppliers under CDP of which 119 have approved or committed to the SBTi and continue to build on this further by actively engaging, discussing and tracking progress with the support of TCCC. Most senior level accountable for the implementation of the policy Each sustainability policy is approved by the CEO and endorsed by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Board. The Chief Supply Chain Officer and Chief Procurement Officer are accountable for the implementation of the policy. Commitment to respect third-party standards The Company has approved a limited set of global third-party Sustainable Agriculture Standards as aligned with the expectations outlined in the PSA, among them is the ILO recommendations. Consideration given to the interests of key stakeholders in setting the policy Having a secure, sustainable supply of agricultural ingredients is imperative to meeting the expectations of our consumers, customers and other stakeholders – and to enabling the continued growth of our Company. In this context, the PSA reflects the most recent science and external stakeholder perspectives, covers new product categories and simplifies language, where possible. Policy available to potentially affected stakeholders All policies are available on our website. At BU level, they are translated and available at the local website. S2-1_01-04, 08, 09 & S2-4_11 Human Rights Policy commitments Commitments Please see S1.MDR-P_01-06 & S1-1_01, 02, 09-14, 16, 17, 21 Our ‘Supplier Guiding Principles’ apply to our suppliers and are aligned with the expectations and commitments of the Human Rights Policy. The Supplier Guiding Principles are aligned with internationally recognised instruments. If the eight Core Conventions of the International Labour Organisation establish higher standards than local law, the supplier shall meet the ILO standards. These minimum requirements are part of all agreements between CCHBC and our direct suppliers. For more information, please visit Human Rights Policy and Supplier Guiding Principles. With regards to ‘Principles for Sustainable Agriculture (PSA)’, human rights are based on the same guiding instruments too. We require compliance with those principles. Processes for monitoring compliance with international instruments Our Human Rights Policy is applicable to our suppliers, partners, contractors and 3PL logistics partners. Compliance is monitored through certifications and Workplace Accountability Audits. We monitor the performance of our significant suppliers through our annual internal supply base assessments, third-party audits of compliance, the EcoVadis IQ Plus Tool and EcoVadis Risk Assessment platform. EcoVadis helps us monitor, assess and benchmark a range of risks using 21 criteria from international standard setters, including the UN Global Compact, ISO 26000, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Based on the findings of the audits, wherever human rights issues were identified, we engaged with our suppliers to prepare corrective action plans. We monitor the progress and conduct audit within the year to secure no recurrence. In 2021, we revisited our Procurement Assessment guidelines to implement stricter rules over Human Rights, Ethics and Compliance practices expected from our suppliers and re-trained our entire Buyers’ community to the Sustainability Risk Assessment tools available for supplier selection and governance. We expect our suppliers to develop and implement appropriate internal business processes to ensure compliance with the Supplier Guiding Principles. Suppliers are 100% obliged to acknowledge acceptance and adherence to the SGPs before commencing any collaboration with Coca-Cola HBC across all our business units. We track adherence to SGPs by leveraging third-party tools such as EcoVadis IQ Plus to full scale audit tools like EcoVadis Assessments, SEDEX and collaborate with TCCC, which routinely utilises independent third parties to assess suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Guiding Principles by means of physical audits, depending on the criticality of their business to our operations. All these activities are repeated by the Procurement team on annual basis. We apply the principle of three-year audit cycle for compliant suppliers, while for those suppliers with audit recommendations, any findings are addressed within maximum 12 months. Our Procurement teams across business units are trained on annual basis to assess risks, recruit suppliers under appropriate risk assessment mechanisms and ensure action plans are in place as needed. We track supplier performance and follow KBIs that indicate our progress on annual basis. Respect for the human rights, including labour rights of workers We are committed to identifying and preventing any adverse human rights impacts in relation to our business activities through human rights due diligence and preventive compliance processes. Moreover, regarding labour rights of our value chain workers, we are committed to supporting fair workplace practices, ensuring a fair work environment, and providing fair wages and benefits. Cases of non-respect to international instruments There are minor findings identified under the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises that involve value chain workers have been reported in our upstream and downstream value chain as follows. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 149 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"
"Sustainability Statement continued For details you may also refer to sections 407.1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1 and 414-2 of the 2024 GRI report. Summary of findings for which we have also mobilised correction actions plans. Findings identified by third-party audit to Supplier Guiding Principles • Health and safety: a) Nigeria: lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) and safeguards on machines and vehicles; inadequate number of restrooms on premises; improper ventilation and lighting, b) Czech Republic: missing elements in risk assessments for welding operators; fire equipment access blocked; chemical storage eye washer not properly drained, c) France: lack of dust measurements in production area; lack of fire permit certificate and drills not duly conducted, d) Germany: lack of fire safety; unproperly marked emergency exits; inadequate number of first aid supplies; improper labeling; lack or handrails or protective guards; improper temperature, noise, ventilation, e) Poland: blocked emergency exits; improper storage and labeling; missing elements of occupational risk assessment for electricians, f) Serbia: fire alarm not fully operable; improper emergency lines; missing inspection records, g) Spain: missing inspection records; inadequate lighting levels for emergency evacuations; blocked evacuation exits; missing first aid kits; missing fire safety certification, h) Switzerland: emergency exits finding; lack of evacuation plans and machine safeguards; lack of fire certifications; improper storage and labeling, i) United Kingdom: missing fire certification; gaps in occupational risk assessments. • Wages and benefits: a) Nigeria: overtime compensation violation; mandated maternity leave not provided; missing pay slips, b) Germany: not providing or not paying changing time for workers; unintentional payroll calculation errors in some cases. • Discrimination: a) Spain: difference in wages between people performing same work; preferential religious accommodations. • Laws and regulations: a) Spain: policies regarding wages and benefits not properly communicated, b) Nigeria: workers age documents not available; labor contracts missing in some cases; some terms not available in local language, c) Czech Republic: working contracts only in local language, including foreign workers, d) France: missing GDPR clause in contracts; missing grievance policy, e) Switzerland: missing operating license for some buildings in the same campus. • Working hours and overtime: a) Switzerland: insufficient break time, b) United Kingdom: incorrect calculation of holiday pay by contractor; logistics contractors employment contracts do not respect overtime and working hours legal standards, c) Nigeria: insufficient break time for workers; rest-day violations, d) France: missing calculation method for compliance on obligatory breaks for on-call employees, e) Germany: violation of working hours for night-shifts, youth workers and women, f) Spain: some people don’t not have a record of start-end time. • Forced labor: a) Nigeria: a supplier’ s workers incurred a requirement to pay placement fee. Findings identified by EcoVadis Types of findings which include both freedom of association and other social elements such as: health & safety incidents, wages & benefits, working hours and overtime, labor contracts, missing actions regarding diversity, equity & inclusion, lack of supporting documentation against declared practices and polices etc. All findings have been addressed, and an action plan is already in place. Suppliers need to close all actions before the next audit and no later than 12 months, otherwise their contracts may be suspended. The number of human rights violations resulting in litigation against the Company was zero in 2024. S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts Through our ‘SpeakUp!’ line, available for both our employees and externally to everyone, we are able to see any comment or concern. The contacts of our company are easily available on the website and on the labels of our finished products. Through regular meetings with suppliers, through interviews by the external auditors they do with contractors during the ISO and Workplace accountability audits, and via the Work Councils we are also able to take into consideration the value chain workers’ view. The engagement as described above is done with the value chain workers directly during the ISO and Workplace Accountability audits’ interviews, and in case of any signal on ‘SpeakUp!’ line, or through credible proxies that have insight into their situation such as NGOs or Work Councils. We engage with our suppliers through the feedback received from our Group Annual Stakeholder Forum, as well as through the regular, ongoing interaction with the Coca-Cola System’s central procurement group and our technology and commodity suppliers. For contractor workers and health and safety, we have implemented standardised contractual clauses including health and safety requirements. All contractors working for CCH must have a health and safety induction training, specific for our premises. There are regular routines established with all contractors at the local business unit level, addressing not only OH&S topics. We do also an annual vendor evaluation where all contractors working at our premises are assessed based on different criteria including health and safety ones. After each external or internal audit, we address any improvement opportunity via an action discussed and agreed with contractors. Each severe OH&S incident or fatality is followed by a lesson learned session with the respective contractor/service provider. Most senior role that has operational responsibility for ensuring that engagement with value chain workers happens For suppliers, the Chief Procurement Officer has the most senior role with operational responsibility for ensuring that engagement with value chain workers happens. Under this role, at the operational level, this includes all Strategic Procurement Managers and the local Procurement Managers in every business unit. For contractors and 3PL Logistics contractors, the Chief Supply Chain Officer has operational responsibility for ensuring that this engagement happens. Under this role, the responsibility lies with the Head of Logistics, Head of QSE, Head of Health and Safety, and at local business unit level, with the country/business unit. S2-2_05 We respect workers’ rights (in the value chain) to form, join or not join a labour union without fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment, where they are represented by a legally recognised union, establish a constructive dialogue with their freely chosen representatives and bargain in good faith with such representatives. We do not control this engagement, and we do not interview someone directly. In case suppliers do not follow this approach, CCHBC can cancel the contract. S2-2_06 We assess indirectly the effectiveness of our engagement with workers in the value chain, in three ways, through audit results, score on questions related to suppliers from ESG raters and the number of grievances from the ‘SpeakUp!’ line. Coca-Cola HBC Integrated Annual Report 2024 150 Supplementary Information Swiss Statutory Reporting Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report"

--- bn_annual_report_2024 ---
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable ESRS sub-topic/sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term E1 – Climate change Climate change adaptation Extreme weather events in supply chain Cases of extreme weather events events, without existing mitigating actions, could have potential impacts on production and transportation, specifically in relation to shortages and delayed deliveries from Contract Manufacturing Organizations and supply of raw materials. Risk ● ● Climate change adaptation Extreme weather events at production sites Due to weather related effects of climate change, without existing mitigating actions, there could be an increased frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, such as storms and floods. These extreme weather events could disrupt manufacturing operations. Risk ● ● Climate change mitigation GHG emissions contributing to climate change We emit greenhouse gasses as part of activities related to research, development, manufacturing and distribution of vaccines, processes which are dependent on various energy sources and use of fossil fuels, both in our own operations (Scope 1 and 2) and throughout our value chain (Scope 3). Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● ● Climate change mitigation Systems controlling refrigerants A potential failure of systems controlling refrigerants which would result in a release of CO2 equivalents into the atmosphere. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Energy Reliance on energy sources stem- ming from use of fossil fuels Our manufacturing processes partly rely on energy sources dependent on fossil fuels, which emit green- house gases and contribute to climate change. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● E2 – Pollution Substances of concern Use of substances of concern A part of our processes in Research and Manufacturing makes use of substances classified as substances of concern which could be harmful to the environment and/or for people handling the substances. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● Substances of very high concern Use of substances of very high concern A part of our processes in Research and Manufacturing makes use of substances classified as substances of very high concern which could be harmful to the environment and/or for people handling the substances. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● Substances of very high concern Further restriction on the use of substances of very high concern We could face a risk in case of further regulatory restrictions on using SVHC's in our operations. Regulations banning the use of such substances could have a consequence on the manufacturing process and would require us to reformulate vaccines. Risk ● ● Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 54"
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable ESRS sub-topic/sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems Impacts on the state of species Reliance on horseshoe crabs for endotoxin testing Impact on horseshoe crabs (a species listed on the IUCN Red List) stems from our dependency on Limulus Amebocyte Lysate, (LAL). which is derived from horseshoe crab blood. The substance is used for endotoxin (safety) testing and is currently a part of our regulatory compliance with quality assurance processes for testing, and product release to ensuring safety of our vaccines. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● Impacts on the state of species Continued regulation on horseshoe crab reliance The use of substances derived from horseshoe crabs, could pose a financial risk if various regulatory bodies, in geographies where we are present, do not align or adopt similar medium- to long-term phase-out provisions on the use of current testing methods, which would not allow us to harmonize any eventual phase-out. Risk ● ● E5 – Resource use and circular economy Resource inflows, including resource use Change of certain manufacturing practices can reduce resource use We are exploring opportunities to optimize production process which could potentially decrease resource inflow and at the same time increase productivity, amounts of certain vaccines produced per batch, improve COGS, and other benefits. Further details are considered company sensitive as disclosed in General disclosures. Opportunity ● ● Waste Waste from operations We generate waste from our research and manufacturing facilities, and non-recyclable waste is sent to either incineration and/or landfill, both of which negatively impacts the natural environment. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● - continued Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 55"
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) - continued ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable sub/ sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term S1 – Own workforce Equal treatment and opportunities for all Equal treatment and opportunities Given our global presence and reliance on a highly skilled workforce, we may risk our ability to attract and retain talent if we do not keep momentum in current efforts and continuously develop initiatives to ensure that we maintain an inclusive and diverse workforce. Risk ● ● Health and safety own workers Health and safety of our workforce Some processes in our manufacturing facilities and research facilities could result in a negative impact on a person’s physical health. Actual negative impact ● ● ● ● Health and safety own workers Health and safety of non-employees Some processes in our manufacturing facilities and research facilities could result in a negative impact on a person’s physical health. This also applies to non-employees carrying out activities and services on behalf of us. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Working conditions Work-life balance As an employer, we play a crucial role in shaping the work-life balance of its employees, ultimately impacting their overall well-being and job satisfaction. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Working conditions Attraction and retention of talent and employees We are dependent on the ability to attract and retain talents for many functions. In situations of intense competition for skilled individuals, or other events leading to adverse impact on our image, this could impact our ability to perform. Risk ● ● S2 – Workers in the value chain Working conditions Health & safety of off-premise workers in the value chain Suppliers and partners in our value chain manage and handle chemicals, which can potentially have a direct impact on the health and safety of workers in the value chain. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Working conditions Health & safety of on-premise workers in the value chain We make use of external companies and individuals who carry out various services at our production sites, some of whom may be exposed to processes that could result in a negative impact on a person's physical health. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 56"
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) - continued ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable sub/ sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term S4 – Consumers and end-users Personal safety of consumers and or end-users Potential adverse effects on patients enrolled in clinical trials During clinical trials, participants' health could be adversely affected from unexpected adverse reactions / events to a vaccine candidate in any stage of clinical trials. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Personal safety of consumers and or end-users Adverse effects due to vaccines administration Adverse events due to vaccine administration can happen and could negatively impact patient health. Potential negative impact ● ● ● ● Personal safety of consumers and or end-users Potential adverse effects on patients enrolled in clinical trials During clinical trials, adverse events linked to the drug substance represents significant risk as it could stop or pause the development of a vaccine candidate. Risk ● ● Personal safety of consumers and or end-users Adverse events as a result of vaccine administration Adverse events as a result of vaccine administration can occur, and if not handled properly, could result in lawsuits and/or regulatory enforcement. Risk ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Prevention of spread of infectious diseases People who have been vaccinated with a vaccine for which we hold the market authorization, can through increased coverage contribute to the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases. Actual positive impact ● ● ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Expanding access to vaccines in endemic countries We have an opportunity to distribute vaccines, in our current portfolio, to endemic low- and lower-mid- dle-income countries reaching markets currently not served. This could have a positive impact on under- served communities by reducing the spread of preventable infectious diseases. Potential positive impact ● ● ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Vaccines can prevent the spread of infectious diseases due to climate change We have an opportunity to provide vaccines which can prevent the spread of infectious diseases which can be correlated to the effects of climate change. Therefore, through our Public Preparedness and Travel Health portfolio, we can have a positive impact on human adaptation to certain effects of climate change. Actual positive impact ● ● ● ● Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 57"
"List of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO) - continued ESRS 2 - table 2 Location in our value chain Expected time horizon Applicable sub/ sub-sub-topic Name of IRO Description Type Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term Social inclusion of consumers and end users Potential to breach responsible marketing standards For companies in the pharmaceutical industry, there are strict rules and regulations in place regarding the marketing to customers. These regulations vary across countries; however, violating these regulations or industry codes could lead to misinformation of health care workers, legal & financial penalties, fines, and damage to a company's reputation. Risk ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Potential to further expanding vaccine portfolio We have an opportunity to develop or acquire new vaccines to our portfolio which could serve new disease areas and prevent the spread of infectious diseases. Opportunity ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Access barriers Distributing vaccines to a global market, we may face situations where access barriers can prevent or slow our ability to deliver vaccines to persons in need. Such barriers may be linked to local regulatory processes, lack of cold-chain transportation, affordability, etc., and could impact our ability to do business, and deliver vaccines, to certain markets. Risk ● ● Social inclusion of consumers and end users Opportunity to prevent the spread of infectious diseases related to climate change With our current portfolio of vaccines, we have a growing opportunity to distribute vaccines that can prevent the spread of certain infectious diseases, whose increasing prevalence can be attributed to the impact of climate change on natural habitats. Opportunity ● ● ● Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix 58"
"Engaging with our workforce We strive to maintain a collaborative and trans- parent approach to workforce engagement and incorporate the perspectives of own workforce into decision-making and operational activities by conducting anonymous employee engagement surveys and continuous dialogue with workers coun- cils in Denmark and Germany. Our approach includes assessing how and when engagement efforts occur, the roles and respon- sibilities involved, and the mechanisms in place to ensure effective outcomes. The Chief People & Sustainability Officer is the most senior person accountable for the employee engagement survey. The Executive Team is collectively responsible for driving engagement across Bavarian Nordic. Employee engagement survey Conducting employee engagement surveys facili- tates transparent communication and collaboration, cultivating a supportive and engaging work envi- ronment and addressing factors impacting work-life balance, job satisfaction, and overall employee well-being. As part of our annual people processes we conduct regular engagement surveys to ensure employee feedback is transparently integrated into decision-making and local team dialogues. The engagement surveys involve different stages: survey planning, information gathering, and review phases of responses generated. Through the engagement survey, employees provide feedback on matters essential to workplace culture including health & well-being, diversity and inclusion, and transformation and change. All employees - across sites, functions, and organizational levels - are eligible to participate. Employees are informed about the surveys and encouraged to participate through email reminders, intranet announcements, Teams notifications, and other internal communica- tion channels. Feedback is collected anonymously, where aggregated results are shared in each team, and presented into actionable insights for managers and leaders, providing a holistic view of organiza- tional health while identifying areas for targeted improvement at local level. The employee engagement survey aims to foster immediate engagement while establishing a long-term foundation for enhanced health, well- being, and job satisfaction. In 2024, three surveys were conducted, enabling consistent monitoring of employee perspectives and adaptability to emerging organizational needs. Surveys are tailored to address evolving priorities, supporting continuous alignment with organizational goals. Workers councils The workers councils (""Betriebsrat"" in Germany and ""Arbejdsmiljøorganisation"" in Denmark) func- tion as a formal channels to incorporate employee perspectives into organizational decision-making. It addresses the principles governing local working conditions, welfare arrangements, and the overar- ching personnel policies in Denmark and Germany. Serving as a platform for dialogue, the council enables management to communicate key informa- tion while ensuring that employee representatives are consulted on significant matters. This engage- ment promotes transparency, cooperation, and alignment, contributing to the continuous enhance- ment of our workplace environment and organiza- tional unity. Processes for remediation We encourage all employees to raise concerns with their manager and/or our HR department, and we strive to address and resolve any issues that are raised in the line of business. Additionally, employees have access to formal reporting channels including our Ethics Hotline, which allows for confidential and anonymous reporting of misconduct or ethical concerns. Read more about our Ethics Hotline in the Business Conduct section of these sustainability statements. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 82 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"Number of employees by gender S1 – table 1 in headcounts 2024 Male 766 Female 887 Total employees 1,653 Number of employees by country S1 – table 2 in headcounts 2024 Denmark 979 Germany 301 Switzerland 215 United States of America 123 Other* 35 Total employees 1,653 * Countries with less than 50 employees are reported aggregated as other. Number of employees by employment characteristics S1 – table 3 in headcounts 2024 Female Male Total Number of permanent employees 856 749 1,605 Number of temporary employees 31 17 48 Number of non-guaranteed hours employees 0 0 0 Total employees 887 766 1,653 Accounting policies Number of employees breakdown by gender and country Employees refer to individuals working part-time or full-time under a contractual agreement with Bavarian Nordic. This definition encompasses employees under local terms and conditions of employment, such as enti- tlements, payment of social security contributions, and other applicable obligations. The number of employees (head counts) by gender and country are recognized based on records from the HR system at the end of the reporting period. Number of employees by employment classification The number of employees is disaggregated by employ- ment classification, including permanent, temporary, and non-guaranteed hours employees, and is reported in number of headcounts. Permanent employees refers to employees employed on an indefinite contract, either full-time or part-time, subject to local terms and conditions of employment. Temporary employees refer to employees hired for a specific duration, either full- time or part-time, to fulfill short-term needs such as apprenticeships, backfilling, or covering parental leave. Temporary contracts end at a predefined date or upon project completion. Turnover rate The employee turnover rate, expressed as a percentage, reflects the proportion of employees who left the organization within a calendar year either voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement or death in service. The turnover rate is determined by dividing the number of employees (measured by headcount) who left during the reporting period by the average number of employees (headcount) for the same period and multiplying it by one hundred. Rate and number of employees leaving the company S1 – table 4  in headcounts 2024 Rate of employee turnover 17.4% Number of employees who left the company 255 Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 83 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"Material impacts and risks IRO IRO Attraction and retention of talent and work-life balance Our ability to attract and retain a workforce with the necessary skills and experience is fundamental to our success and relates to other identified impacts, including work-life balance. In a competitive labour market, as well as under potential reputational pressures, difficulties in attracting or retaining employees could negatively impact our performance and strategic objectives. The identified risk arises from the dependencies on our own workforce, particularly those working in locations and function where there is a high demand within pharmaceu- tical research, development, manufacturing and commercial. The risk has been identified through our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process. The vaccine sector can be subject to fluctuating market demands, due to external factors such as urgent responses to disease outbreaks. As an employer, we are responsible for shaping working conditions and work-life balance for our employees, impacting their overall well-being and job satisfac- tion, which ultimately affects our ability to retain talent. Peak periods can affect people working in various departments and sites throughout the organization, as they could lead to additional work- load. Policies & processes Remote working policy Our remote working policy defines the governing framework for employees performing working hours outside the organization's premises. The policy applies universally to all employees and is intended to enhance operational efficiency, employee engagement and organizational alignment through structured and flexible working arrangement. The policy reflects our commitment to flexible workplace practices, prioritizing well-being and adaptability to modern work requirements. The New Ways of Working initiative With the aim to increase flexibility and enhance work-life balance, we introduced our New Ways of Working initiative in 2021. Through this, we actively encourage employees to work collaboratively and adopt flexible working arrangements. By fostering a culture of flexibility, and improved work spaces at our offices, we provide a framework for work practices, which support employees in achieving improved work-life balance, also in peak periods. Actions In 2024, we initiated a series of initiatives aimed at strengthening our ability to attract and retain talent, with efforts focused on the below key actions: Leadership development LeadPioneers is our Leadership development program that provides a structured approach to leadership, setting clear expectations and fostering a shared understanding of effective leadership practices. Through this program, we equip leaders with the skills they need to lead their people and organization in line with present and future demands. LeadPioneers offers two distinct learning tracks: Leading Others, tailored for leaders managing individual contributors, and Leading Leaders designed to educate leaders of other managers. Managed by the HR Development Team, LeadPio- neers trains leaders in cohorts throughout 2025, with an objective for all leaders with at least three direct reports to complete the program by third quarter of 2026. Expected outcomes include consistently enhancing leadership capabilities, establishing a culture prioritizing accountability, and a resilient leadership framework aligned with our strategic objectives. Performance management system Our Performance Management system is a manage- ment tool to align expectations between employees and managers. It facilitates collaboration, dialogue, and follow-up on individual performance and devel- opment goals. By supporting continuous engagement and alignment on deliverables and development plans, it contributes to achieving long-term organi- zational objectives. Integrated into annual HR processes, the perfor- mance management system ensures ongoing value through structured discussions and actionable outcomes. Expected benefits include improved performance tracking, focused development efforts, and enhanced alignment with organizational prior- ities. Targets Our people are the key to our success and although we have not formalized targets, we continuously monitor our performance in relation to talent attraction and retention, including work-life balance. This is done through various processes, including tracking turnover rates, employee engagement surveys, performance and development talks, lead- ership development program, one-on-one dialogue with managers, and exit-interviews. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 84 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"IRO Equal treatment and opportunities for all Given our global presence and reliance on a highly skilled workforce, we may risk our ability to attract and retain talent if we do not keep momentum in current efforts and continuously develop initiatives to ensure that we maintain an inclusive and diverse workforce. This risk is linked to our dependency on human resources and our ability to attract and retain talent, including risk considerations related to our reputation, legal sanctions, and/or labour disputes. Policies Diversity and inclusion policy Our Diversity and inclusion policy outlines our approach to ensuring equal treatment and oppor- tunities for all employees, which is a key compo- nent of our sustainability efforts. The policy aims to create a work environment where everyone feels respected and valued in support of a diverse workplace. The policy covers the following grounds for discrimination, but not limited to: gender, age, educational background, ethnicity, physical impair- ment, religion, or sexual orientation. The policy addresses material impacts such as elim- inating biases in selection and promotion processes and preventing discriminatory behavior. Executive Management is accountable for the imple- mentation of the diversity and inclusion policy. Global policy on sexual harassment and global policy on bullying and harassment at work We do not accept any kinds of bullying and harass- ment. Our policies stress the importance of respect and dignity while providing guidance on preventing and remediating inappropriate behaviors. Addition- ally, they emphasize the collective for cultivating a workplace where every individual feels safe, valued, and empowered to contribute fully. Maintaining a respectful workplace is a shared responsibility. All employees, including manage- ment, are accountable for adhering to the principles outlined in the policies. Members of the Executive Management are the most senior level account- able for the implementation of these policies. The policies are accessible for all employees via our intranet. We do not currently have specific policy commit- ments related to positive action for people from groups at particular risk of vulnerability Processes for remediation We are committed to maintaining a safe, inclusive, and respectful workplace where all employees are treated with dignity. We encourage employees to address concerns at the local level whenever possible. Employees who experience or witness inappropriate behavior should first attempt to resolve the issue by speaking with the individuals involved, their immediate manager, or a trusted colleague. If further support is needed, employees are urged to contact their HR Business Partner, who will facilitate resolution in line with company guidelines. In cases where local resolution is not possible, or if the concern involves a direct manager, employees may escalate the issue to a higher-level manager, a union or Workers Council representative or the Health and Safety Representative. We uphold a strict non-retaliation policy to protect employees who report concerns in good faith and continuously review our processes to ensure they remain effective, accessible, and aligned with regu- latory and ethical standards. Actions In 2024, we conducted two online programs as part of our ongoing commitment to educate employees on the importance of inclusion and unconscious bias. The sessions were focused on two key topics. 1. Inclusive Colleagueship - emphasizing the importance of inclusion, belonging, and allyship through practical, everyday actions; and 2. Unconscious Bias - exploring the impact of unconscious bias and impact on the workplace, providing strategies to mitigate bias. The sessions offered actionable insights on how employees contribute to an inclusive work environ- ment, emphasizing personal and collective respon- sibility in fostering an inclusive work environment. Targets Our people are the key to our success and although we have not formalized targets, we continuously monitor our performance in relation to equal opportunities and treatment. This is done through awareness trainings, salary benchmarks checks, and employee engagement surveys. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 85 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"Gender distribution in Top management S1 – table 5 in headcounts 2024 Number Share Female 11 46 % Male 13 54 % Total employees 24 100 % Age distribution in own workforce S1 – table 6 in headcounts 2024 Under 30 years old 228 30-50 years old 963 Over 50 years old 462 Total employees 1,653 Remuneration metrics S1 – table 7 2024 Gender pay gap1 -1,6% CEO remuneration ratio 29 1 Negative gender pay gap reflects a pay gap in favor of males Accounting policies Gender diversity at Top management level Top management is defined as positions at the Vice President level and above. Gender distribution is shown as headcounts and share distributed between male and female. The gender breakdown of employees at the Top management level is based on records from the HR system at the end of the reporting period. Age distribution The age breakdown of employees is based on records from the HR system at the end of the reporting period. Gender pay gap Gender pay gap is defined as the difference of average pay levels between female and male employees, expressed as percentage of the average pay level of male employees. The metric is calculated based on total annual remuneration which includes both fixed and variable components. CEO remuneration ratio The CEO remuneration ratio reflects the annual ratio between the total remuneration of the CEO (the highest paid individual) and the average remuneration of all employees (measured in FTEs) within the company, excluding executive management. The calculation of the ratio is consistent with the calculation of CEO pay ratio disclosed in our Remuneration Report. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 86 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"IRO Health and safety We have processes in our manufacturing and research facilities that could pose a risk of nega- tive impact on a person’s physical health. This also applies to non-employees carrying out activities and services on our behalf. The negative impacts relate to individual incidents only for the part of our workforce that work in the context of our vaccines research and manufacturing. As this is an inherent part of our business model (end-to-end develop- ment and manufacturing of vaccines) decreasing the risk of negative impacts related to health and safety remains a priority on all our manufacturing and research facilities. The potential impacts described inform daily and strategic decision-making. Policies Global Environmental, Health & Safety Policy Our Global Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy covers all our business areas and locations. The policy emphasizes high standards of EHS performance, ensuring compliance with applicable EHS laws, managing EHS risks, and continuously seeking opportunities to reduce risks and improve performance. It highlights the importance of educating and enabling employees and key stakeholders inter- nally and externally to work safely and responsibly, fostering positive interactions and work practices through open dialogue on EHS matters. The EHS Management System, overseen by governance arrangements involving all company levels, ensures that performance is monitored and regularly reviewed to meet high standards and provide value to stakeholders. Site heads are responsible for implementing the policy and ensuring that it is effective. The content was revised during 2024, and the updated policy was published in the beginning of 2025. Employee vaccination program The policy aims to ensure health and safety of employees operating in environments with poten- tial exposure to infectious agents. It establishes protocols for vaccination for employees working in high-risk environments with live viruses. Objectives include protecting employees from health risks associated with exposure to infectious agents, implementing stringent access control to high-risk areas, aligning with global health and biosafety standards, thereby minimizing potential adverse impacts on physical health. The policy applies to all employees engaged in activities involving potential exposure to virus, including employees in production, quality control, environmental monitoring, and support roles operating in designated high-risk areas. The policy primarily addresses operations within our facilities, specifically activities directly involving the handling or production of hazardous biological materials. Engaging with our workforce We prioritize the health and safety of our employees through structured engagement processes with our workforce and their representatives. Our EHS Committee operates at the strategic level, collab- orating closely with Site Heads and the ESG repre- sentatives to plan, lead, and coordinate our efforts in protecting employee health and safety, the surrounding environment, and risk prevention. This committee ensures that strategic decisions align with our commitment to maintaining a safe and healthy workplace. Engagement with our workforce occurs directly and through workers' representatives. This engage- ment is integral to our decision-making processes, ensuring that the perspectives of our workforce are incorporated into managing actual and potential impacts. Engagement occurs at multiple stages, including planning, implementation, and review phases of health and safety initiatives. The types of engagement include regular meetings, surveys, and feedback sessions, conducted frequently to ensure continuous dialogue and improvement. The Global EHS Director holds the overall respon- sibility for setting the strategic direction for EHS, aligning with each global function, while ensuring workforce engagement and feedback is the core of the strategy. The site heads have the overall responsibility, which is a legal requirement in most countries. Our Global EHS Operations team has been estab- lished at the operational level, working in collabo- ration with EHS Management to handle and partici- pate in risk prevention activities. These groups play a role in addressing unsustainable EHS matters, either by resolving them directly or escalating them to the EHS Committee. The EHS Committee act as a liaison between employees and the work environ- ment organization, ensuring effective communica- tion and collaboration. They are also responsible for providing comprehensive training and instruction to all employees, ensuring that everyone is well-in- formed about safety protocols and best practices. Where relevant, we incorporate specific considera- tions to vulnerable employees, including pregnant women. We have an internal policy that outlines specific tasks pregnant women should avoid to prevent any risk to their health and safety. This policy helps protect both the expectant mother and her unborn child by minimizing workplace hazards. The policy stipulates that specific individual risk assessments must be carried out for each pregnant worker. Where a potential risk is identified and cannot be eliminated, we will find alternative work arrangement, which will not impact the expectant or breastfeeding mother or unborn child. By providing clear guidelines and adjusting work duties Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 87 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"as needed, we aim to create a supportive and safe environment for pregnant employees. Processes for remediation We apply established processes to address and remediate negative impacts on employees within own workforce, and to provide accessible chan- nels for raising concerns. Employees are provided multiple options for reporting, including health and safety management system, health and safety representatives, or their direct managers. Employees are encouraged to report incidents, near- misses, or unsafe conditions to help maintain a safe and compliant working environment. The health and safety management system enables structured reporting and documentation facilitating the anal- ysis and resolution of reported issues in alignment with regulatory requirements. The objective is to implement a health and safety management system globally to standardize system management across all locations. Currently, we are in the process of identifying global internal stand- ards to ensure that we drive continuous improve- ment in addition to legislative compliance. Each site has their individual health and safety management system. For countries or sites where the health and safety management system are not yet in place, local processes, manuals, procedures, and systems are in effect. EHS representatives responsible for time-tracking tools and regulatory documentation, manage the local EHS Management systems and collaborate closely with our HR department on health-related concerns and reporting of these to authorities. All processes adhere to applicable local legal requirements, ensuring full compliance. Actions We have developed a new Global EHS strategy with the purpose of further defining our roadmap and focus areas. We have started implementation and are planning to fill several key full-time positions in our EHS department with the purpose of driving our strategic ambitions, including areas related to the identified potential negative impact. This includes building governance, leadership, standards and capabilities on a global and local level across all EHS topics. By hiring additional dedicated roles in the EHS area, we are better equipped to identify and mitigate risks, provide comprehensive training, and ensure a safe and supportive work environment for all our employees. As part of our strategy, we have introduced the updated Global EHS Policy with the purpose of addressing health and safety impacts related to our own workforce as well as on- and off-premise workers. Targets Our sustainability-related company goals for 2025 include a target relating to the health and safety of workers on-premise, regardless of their type of employment. The target is supporting the objectives of our Global EHS Policy and Global EHS Strategy. The EHS department and Executive Management have been involved in the target setting process. Target performance will be assessed by the end of the year. Our target is to further reduce health hazards in our operating sites by expanding our current portfolio of risk assessments in each of our locations and addressing 90% of identified mitigating actions. Risk assessments are an integral part of how we operate, and opportunity assessments are underway to expand on the work previously undertaken by each location. The baseline will be finalized by the end of quarter one in 2025, and tracking will be conducted by EHS on a quarterly basis thereafter. Target perfor- mance will be assessed by the end of the year. Health and safety metrics related to own employees S1 – table 8 in numbers 2024 Percentage of workforce covered under health & safety management system 100% Fatalities as a result of work-related injuries & ill health 0 Recordable work-related accidents 6 Rate of recordable work-related accidents 2.3 Total number of incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts S1 – table 9 in numbers 2024 Incidents of discrimination, including harassment 0 Complaints filed through channels for people to raise concerns 0 Fines, penalties, and compensation for damages resulting from discrimination (in DKK) 0 Severe human rights incidents 0 Fines, penalties and compensation for damages resulting from severe human rights incidents (in DKK) 0 Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 88 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"
"Accounting policies The percentage of employees covered by health and safety management system The metric is determined through information gathered from the health and safety responsible person in each of our locations. The percentage coverage is calculated as the number of employees (headcounts) covered by health and safety management systems divided by all employees (headcounts). The number of fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and work-related ill health The number of fatalities is determined based on records from our HR system. It refers to death of employees resulting from work-related accidents and work-related ill health. All types of employees are considered for the metric. The number and rate of recordable work-related accidents A recordable work-related accident is registered if the accident results in the employee being unable to perform their usual work for one day or more, excluding the day of the injury. The rate of work-related accidents represents the number of cases per one million hours worked. It is calculated by dividing the total number of work-re- lated accidents by the total hours worked by our own employees, and multiplying the result by one million. The number of hours worked by our employees is estimated based on standard full-time equivalent (FTE) hours, taking into account entitlements to leave periods, including vacation and public holidays. The calculation excludes individually registered vacation days. Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts The metrics represent the number of discrimination incidents, complaints and severe human rights cases reported to the Ethics Hotline or to our Legal & Compli- ance team in the reporting period. Bavarian Nordic Annual Report 2024 89 General disclosures Environmental Social Governance Appendix Own workforce Workers in the value chain Consumers and end-users"

--- Annual-Report-HoldCo-2024-Web ---
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix A (continued) Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Applicable for the Group Relevant page number ESRS S1-1 Processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 Indicator number 11 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 88 ESRS S1-1 Workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 Indicator number 1 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 88 ESRS S1-3 Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) Indicator number 5 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 90 ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work- related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) Indicator number 2 Table #3 of Annex I n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) Indicator number 3 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) Indicator number 12 Table #1 of Annex I n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a Yes 99 ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) Indicator number 8 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 99 ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) Indicator number 7 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 99 ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD Guidelines paragraph 104 (a) Indicator number 10 Table #1 and Indicator n. 14 Table #3 of Annex I n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 Art 12 (1) n/a Yes 99 ESRS 2- SBM3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain paragraph 11 (b) Indicators number 12 and n. 13 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 101 Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 36"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix A (continued) Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Applicable for the Group Relevant page number ESRS S2-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 17 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator n. 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 103 ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 18 Indicator number 11 and n. 4 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 101 ESRS S2-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines paragraph 19 Indicator number 10 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) n/a Yes 102, 104 ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 19 n/a n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a Yes 101, 103 ESRS S2-4 Human rights issues and incidents connected to its upstream and downstream value chain paragraph 36 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 102, 103 ESRS S3-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 16 Indicator number 9 Table #3 of Annex 1 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 114 ESRS S3-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights, ILO principles or OECD guidelines paragraph 17 Indicator number 10 Table #1 Annex 1 n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) n/a Yes 114 ESRS S3-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 36 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 109 Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 37"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix A (continued) Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Applicable for the Group Relevant page number ESRS S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users paragraph 16 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 125 ESRS S4-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD guidelines paragraph 17 Indicator number 10 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Art 12 (1) n/a Yes 125 ESRS S4-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 35 Indicator number 14 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 117, 118 ESRS G1-1 United Nations Convention against Corruption paragraph 10 (b) Indicator number 15 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - there is a policy n/a ESRS G1-1 Protection of whistle- blowers paragraph 10 (d) Indicator number 6 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - there is a policy n/a ESRS G1-4 Fines for violation of anti- corruption and anti- bribery laws paragraph 24 (a) Indicator number 17 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II) n/a Yes 131 ESRS G1-4 Standards of anti- corruption and anti- bribery paragraph 24 (b) Indicator number 16 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 131 Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 38"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix B Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s Sustainability statement. Topic DR Page Topic DR Page ESRS 2 BP-1 18 ESRS S1 S1-9 98 ESRS 2 BP-2 18 ESRS S1 S1-10 98 ESRS 2 GOV-1 19 ESRS S1 S1-16 99 ESRS 2 GOV-2 19 ESRS S1 S1-17 99 ESRS 2 GOV-3 235, 238, 240, 242 ESRS S2 SBM-2 100 ESRS 2 GOV-4 21 ESRS S2 SBM-3 100, 101 ESRS 2 GOV-5 22 ESRS S2 S2-1 101, 102,103 ESRS 2 SBM-1 23 ESRS S2 S2-2 101, 102,104 ESRS 2 SBM-2 25 ESRS S2 S2-3 101, 103 ESRS 2 SBM-3 29 ESRS S2 S2-4 101, 103 ESRS 2 IRO-1 26 ESRS S2 S2-5 102, 105 ESRS 2 IRO-2 30 ESRS S3 SBM-2 25 ESRS E1 E1.GOV-3 240 ESRS S3 SBM-3 29, 106 ESRS E1 E1-1 41 ESRS S3 S3-1 107, 109, 110, 111, 112, 114 ESRS E1 E1.SBM-3 48 ESRS S3 S3-2 109 ESRS E1 E1.IRO-1 52 ESRS S3 S3-3 109 ESRS E1 E1-2 61 ESRS S3 S3-4 108, 110, 111, 112, 113 ESRS E1 E1-3 67 ESRS S3 S3-5 108, 110, 111, 112 ,113 ESRS E1 E1-4 68 ESRS S4 SBM-2 25 ESRS E1 E1-5 81 ESRS S4 SBM-3 29,115 ESRS E1 E1-6 72 ESRS S4 S4-1 116, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125 ESRS E1 E1-9 56 ESRS S4 S4-2 118 ESRS S1 SBM-2 25 ESRS S4 S4-3 119 ESRS S1 SBM-3 29, 86, 91 ESRS S4 S4-4 116, 120, 121, 122, 124, ESRS S1 S1-1 87, 88, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95 ESRS S4 S4-5 117, 120, 121, 122, 124, ESRS S1 S1-2 90 ESRS G1 GOV-1 126 ESRS S1 S1-3 90 ESRS G1 IRO-1 126 ESRS S1 S1-4 92, 93, 94, 95, 96 ESRS G1 G1-1 127 ESRS S1 S1-5 92, 93, 94, 95, 96 ESRS G1 G1-2 132 ESRS S1 S1-6 96 ESRS G1 G1-3 129,130, 131 ESRS S1 S1-8 97 ESRS G1 G1-4 131 Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 39"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix C Disclosure requirements being covered through incorporation by reference to other sections of the Annual Report. Topic DR Content Page reference ESRS 2 GOV-1 Your Board, Board Committees, Board Diversity, skills and experience, the Board’s Professional Development and Continuous Education Programme 186, 191, 192, 194 ESRS 2 GOV-3 Remuneration Report 235, 238, 240, 242 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Our strategy, Sustainability summary 9, 14 ESRS 2 SBM-2 Stakeholder engagement 197 ESRS 2 SBM-3 Current financial effects 413 ESRS E1 E1.GOV-3 Remuneration Report 240 ESRS E1 E1.IRO-1 ESG Risk Lens 296 ESRS G1 G1.GOV-1 Board Composition and succession 191 ESRS S1 S1-6 Number of staff reported on a Full Time Equivalent (FTE) basis 352 ESRS S3 S3-4 Divisional review - Corporate and Commercial 169 ESRS S4 S4-4 Actions focused on S4 Risk-1 413 Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 40"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) 4 Impact, risk and opportunity management (continued) See the following matrix for the materiality of sub-topics within the eight material topics identified as part of the DMA: Material topics (sub-topics) identified as part of the DMA Impact material Impact and financially material (i.e. material from both inside-out and outside-in perspective) S1 - Working conditions E1 - Climate change adaptation G1 - Corruption and bribery E1 - Climate change mitigation E1 - Energy S2 - Other work-related rights S3 - Communities’ economic, social and cultural rights S4 - Personal safety of consumers and / or end-users G1 - Corporate culture G1 - Protection of whistleblowers G1 - Management of relationships with suppliers including Housing Digital Banking Non-material Financially material S1 - Other work-related rights S1 - Equal treatment and opportunities for all S3 - Communities’ civil and political rights S2 - Working conditions S3 - Particular rights of indigenous communities S2 - Equal treatment and opportunities for all G1 - Political engagement and lobbying activities S4 - Information-related impact for consumers and / or end-users G1 - Animal welfare S4 - Social inclusion of consumers and / or end-users Environment Social Governance Entity-specific Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 31"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix A List of disclosure requirements and related data points in cross-cutting and topical standards that derive from other EU legislation. Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Applicable for the Group Relevant page number ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) Indicator number 13 of Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 (5), Annex II n/a Yes 194 ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) n/a n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a Yes 193 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 Indicator number 10 Table #3 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 21 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Indicators number 4 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 (6) Table 1: Qualitative information on Environmental risk and Table 2: Qualitative information on Social risk Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a n/a - Group has no direct exposure to fossil fuels in energy and extraction. n/a ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Indicator number 9 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a Yes 56 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Indicator number 14 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (7), Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a n/a - Group is not active in this sector n/a ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv n/a n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12(1) Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a n/a - Group is not active in this sector n/a ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 n/a n/a n/a Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) Yes 41 ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) n/a Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book-Climate Change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 12.1 (d) to (g), and Article 12.2 n/a n/a - Group is not excluded from Paris- aligned benchmarking n/a Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 32"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix A (continued) Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Applicable for the Group Relevant page number ESRS E1-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction targets paragraph 34 Indicator number 4 Table #2 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 6 n/a Yes 68 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Indicator number 5 Table #1 and Indicator n. 5 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Group is a Financial Institution and does not belong to High climate impact sectors n/a ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 Indicator number 5 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a Yes 81 ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors paragraphs 40 to 43 Indicator number 6 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Group is a Financial Institution and does not belong to High climate impact sectors n/a ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 44 Indicators number 1 and 2 Table #1 of Annex Article 449a; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 1: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: Credit quality of exposures by sector, emissions and residual maturity Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 5(1), 6 and 8(1) n/a Yes 72 ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 55 Indicators number 3 Table #1 of Annex 1 Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 Template 3: Banking book – Climate change transition risk: alignment metrics Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Article 8(1) n/a Yes 72 ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 56 n/a n/a n/a Regulation (EU) 2021/1119, Article 2(1) Group does not participate in any carbon removal and carbon credit program 81 ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 n/a n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex II Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a Yes 59 Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 33"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix A (continued) Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Applicable for the Group Relevant page number ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a) ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c). n/a Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraphs 46 and 47; Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk. n/a n/a Yes 59 ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy- efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c). n/a Article 449a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 paragraph 34; Template 2:Banking book -Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property - Energy efficiency of the collateral Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818, Annex I n/a Yes 57 ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E- PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 n/a Indicator number 8 Table #1 of Annex 1 Indicator number 2 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 1 Table #2 of Annex 1 Indicator number 3 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E3-1 Water and marine resources paragraph 9 Indicator number 7 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 Indicator number 8 Table 2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) Indicator number 6.2 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 Indicator number 6.1 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i Indicator number 7 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 34"
"Sustainability statement (ESRS 2 General Disclosures) (continued) Appendix A (continued) Disclosure requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Applicable for the Group Relevant page number ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) Indicator number 10 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) Indicator number 14 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24 (b) Indicator number 11 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Indicator number 12 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) Indicator number 15 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) Indicator number 13 Table #2 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 Indicator number 9 Table #1 of Annex 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a - Not Material for the Group n/a ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labour paragraph 14 (f) Indicator number 13 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 87 ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g) Indicator number 12 Table #3 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 87 ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 20 Indicator number 9 Table #3 and Indicator number 11 Table #1 of Annex I n/a n/a n/a Yes 87, 88 ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21 n/a n/a Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1816, Annex II n/a Yes 88 Strategic Report Financial Review Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Bank of Ireland Annual Report 2024 35"

--- CNP-Assurances-SA-and-subsidiaries-2024-URD ---
"68 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Dialogue with affected stakeholders and definition of materiality thresholds The double materiality assessment is performed by the operational departments and business units, which have a good understanding of stakeholders’ interests and views, by incorporating the structured stakeholder dialogue process presented in the section 2.1.3.2 Stakeholder Interests and Views (SBM-2). After consulting CNP Assurances’ corporate departments (in particular the Strategy Department, the Group Risks Department, the Human Resources Department, the Investments Department, the Purchasing Department and the Legal Department) and business units, the sustainability representatives of its shareholder, La Banque Postale, and the sustainability correspondents within the subsidiaries of the CNP Assurances Group, the Group Sustainability Department and the Accounting Department check the overall consistency of the assessment and propose a materiality threshold that is reviewed by the members of the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. The double materiality assessment was presented to the Audit and Risk Committee and the CSR Committee in 2024 and it will be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval in 2025. 2.1.4.2 Disclosure requirements covered by CNP Assurances' Sustainability Statement (IRO‐2) List of ESRS disclosure requirements complied with in preparing the Sustainability Statement following the outcome of the materiality assessment The list of reporting requirements is detailed in section 2.6.2 ESRS disclosure requirements (IRO-2). 2.2 Environmental information 2.2.1 Climate change (ESRS E1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies POSITIVE IMPACTS Investing activities Investments in assets used to finance the energy and environmental transition Commitment to green investments, formally documented in the due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries NEGATIVE IMPACTS Internal operations GHG emissions from the Group’s own operations and the office supply chain, resulting in damage to ecosystems and people’s health • Energy savings policy • Travel policy • EcoWatt approach Scope: CNP Assurances SA • Local policy specific to each entity, taking into account the local context Insurance activities Inability to insure losses arising from adverse weather events, resulting in reduced insurance cover for policyholders • Reinsurance strategy • Group ORSA report Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Investing activities GHG emissions from the assets in the investment portfolio, which may cause damage to ecosystems and people’s health • Sector-based exclusion policies for coal, oil and gas Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Shareholder engagement policy • ESG-based investment selection • Due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 69 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies RISKS Internal operations Physical climate risk affecting the Group’s offices and employees due to adverse weather events, which may lead to business interruptions and costs • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Insurance activities Exposure of the insurance business to physical climate risk, which may lead to an increase in insurance rates or a reduction in protection • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Exposure of the insurance business to physical climate risk, which may have consequences for human health and lead to an increase in insurance claims • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Non-compliance with sustainability regulations applicable to insurance contracts, which may result in significant fines and adversely affect the Group’s image and reputation • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Investing activities Exposure of investing activities to physical climate risk, which may lead to a fall in asset values • Group risk management policies • Policy for integrating sustainability risks into investment decisions Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Macro-economic tensions related to climate transition risks and changes in energy prices, which may lead to a fall in asset values • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Policy for integrating sustainability risks into investment decisions Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries. Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. Climate change mitigation policies (E1-2) and targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-4) are published in the transition plan (E1-1)."
"70 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1‐1) 1.5°C reference scenario CNP Assurances targets Levers and actions Internal operations 50% between 2019 and 2030 50% between 2019 and 2030 Reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions Energy efficiency Renewable energy Energy sufficiency Investments in energy assets Coal Climate Analytics’ 1.5°C scenario: complete exit from the thermal coal sector in the European Union and OECD countries by 2030, and the rest of the world by 2040 Coal Zero direct exposure to thermal coal in the investment portfolio in the European Union and OECD countries by 2030, and the rest of the world by 2040 Exclusion Shareholder engagement Oil and gas 1.5°C scenario based on the International Energy Agency’s target of Net-Zero Emissions by 2050: development of fossil oil and gas fields halted since 2021 (new fields or extensions) Oil and gas Exclusion of project finance and investments in companies developing new fossil oil or gas exploration or production projects Exclusion Shareholder engagement Electricity producers One-Earth Climate Model (OECM) 1.5°C trajectories taking into account the geographical location of directly- owned electricity producers: 216 kgeqCO2/MWh by the end of 2024 Electricity producers Objective of reducing carbon intensity by 17% between 2019 and 2024, to 216 kgeqCO2/MWh by the end of 2024. Shareholder engagement ESG asset selection and management strategy Investments in companies -40% to -60% between 2020 and 2030 Global GHG emission reductions (IPCC Sixth Assessment Report: trajectories with little or no risk of global warming exceeding 1.5°C) -53% between 2019 and 2029 Objective of reducing by 53% the carbon footprint of the directly-held equity, corporate bond and infrastructure portfolio to 50 kgeqCO2 /€k invested between 2019 and the end of 2029 ESG asset selection and management strategy Property investments 13 kgeqCO2/sq.m. by the end of 2029 Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM) 1.5°C trajectories, taking into account the type and geographical location of directly-owned properties 13 kgeqCO2/sq.m.* by the end of 2029 Objective of reducing by 32% the carbon footprint of the portfolio of properties held directly through club deals and the Lamartine fund to 13 kgeqCO2/sq.m. between 2019 and the end of 2029 ESG asset selection and management strategy All investments Limiting global warming to +1.5°C depends on achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 Membership of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance and commitment to achieving a carbon-neutral investment portfolio by 2050 ESG asset selection and management strategy"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 71 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.1.1 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Every year, when renewing its membership of the UN Global Compact, CNP Assurances reaffirms its determination to manage its impact on the environment. The company is committed to supporting the transition towards a low-carbon, resilient economy that does not destroy natural resources. This commitment is based on setting ambitious targets in terms of climate change mitigation and adaptation, monitoring the environmental impact of CNP Assurances’ activities (investment, insurance and internal operations) and taking steps to reduce this impact and achieve the targets set. GHG emissions reduction targets set for internal operations CNP Assurances has undertaken to reduce direct and indirect (Scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions from internal operations by 50% between 2019 and 2030. This objective is in line with the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to limit global warming to 1.5°C (IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C). The emissions concerned include direct emissions (Scope 1) and emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2). Baseline value (2019) Target value (2030) Reduction target (%) Value in 2024 2024 Achievement rate Scope Location-based Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reported in 2023 incl. Cyprus 6,774 teqCO2 3,387 teqCO2 50% N/A(1) N/A CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Location-based Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions excl. Cyprus 5,580 teqCO2 2,790 teqCO2 50% 2,431 teqCO2 113% CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings (CIH) has been removed from the base year in order to enable meaningful year-on-year comparisons. This subsidiary in Cyprus, which has now been sold, was a significant contributor to the GHG emissions from internal operations of CNP Assurances. Scope 3 emissions from internal operations are not included in the scope of the emissions reduction targets, but are subject to mitigation measures, as presented in the section 2.2.1.3 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (E1-3)”. GHG emissions reduction targets for the investment portfolio In 2019, CNP Assurances joined the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance and committed to achieving carbon neutrality in its investment portfolio by 2050. Launched in September 2019 at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance is a member- led initiative of over 80 institutional investors managing $9,500 billion in investments, that are committed to transitioning their investment portfolios to net zero GHG emissions by 2050. By targeting the transition of their portfolio to net-zero GHG emissions, Alliance members hope to help limit global warming to 1.5°C in line with the Paris Agreement. The Alliance is inviting many other institutional investors to join their effort, in order to rapidly achieve critical mass and play a key role in decarbonising the global economy and investing in climate change resilience. As part of this long-term commitment, CNP Assurances and the other members of the Alliance will take into account advances in available scientific knowledge, particularly the conclusions of the IPCC, and will regularly report on the progress made by setting interim objectives every five years to 2050. Joining the Alliance involves implementing three action levers: regularly measuring the investment portfolio’s alignment with the Paris Agreement and publishing the progress made, maintaining shareholder dialogue with investee companies to ensure they are also targeting carbon neutrality, and lobbying for public policies that promote the transition to a decarbonised economy. Following a stakeholder consultation in 2020, the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance published its inaugural Target-Setting Protocol in January 2021. The protocol described how Alliance members would set climate targets to be achieved by 2025, based on current scientific knowledge when the targets were set. The protocol is updated annually to expand its coverage and take account of advances in available scientific knowledge, including the conclusions of the IPCC. The initial targets set by CNP Assurances in February 2021 have since been revised to reflect the latest published recommendations. At 31 December 2024, CNP Assurances' investment portfolio, all asset classes combined, totalled more than €412 billion(2). Decarbonisation trajectories aligned with the Paris Agreement cover €114 billion(3) of investments in directly-held equities, corporate bonds and infrastructure assets, the portfolio of properties held directly through club deals and the Lamartine fund, and directly-held shares and bonds issued by electricity producers, together representing approximately 28% of CNP Assurances’ total investment portfolio(4). (1) As Cyprus Insurance Holdings (CIH) is in the process of being sold and outside the CSRD scope of consolidation, CNP Assurances is not able to determine GHG emissions including CIH for 2024 (2) Includes the investments of CNP UniCredit Vita, which was in the process of being sold at 31 December 2014 (3) 70% of which is covered by carbon emissions disclosures (4) The decarbonisation pathways cover investments made by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries"
"72 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Targets aligned with a 1.5°C trajectory CNP Assurances' objectives are based on the recommendations of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, as set out in the Target-Setting Protocol (4th edition). Since data are not always available for all asset classes, the calculation was done in a continuous improvement perspective. Participation in the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance projects will help fine-tune the results year by year. Method for aligning the reduction in the carbon footprint of the portfolio of directly-held equities, corporate bonds and infrastructure assets. The target of a 53% reduction in the carbon footprint of the portfolio of equities, corporate bonds and infrastructures held directly by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries between 2019 and 2029 is in line with the IPCC's trajectories with little or no risk of global warming exceeding 1.5°C (IPCC Sixth Assessment Report). The target covers Scope 1 emissions (direct emissions) and Scope 2 emissions (indirect energy-related emissions) where the data are published by the investee companies. Method for aligning the reduction in the carbon footprint of the property portfolio The target of a 32% reduction per square metre in the carbon footprint of the portfolio of properties held directly through club deals and the Lamartine fund between 2019 and 2029 is in line with the 1.5°C trajectories published by the Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM). The trajectory for CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries was modelled using the CRREM scenarios, taking into account the type of asset (offices, retail units, residential units, warehouses) and the geographical location of the properties held directly by CNP Assurances. The trajectory modelled in this way requires a reduction of 32% per square metre to limit the risk of global warming exceeding 1.5°C. The target covers actual or estimated Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect energy-related emissions) emissions from the buildings in the portfolio. Method for aligning the reduction in the carbon intensity of electricity producers The objective of reducing the carbon intensity of electricity producers directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries by 17% between 2019 and 2024 is in line with the 1.5°C trajectories of the One-Earth Climate Model (OECM). The trajectory was modelled using the OECM scenarios, taking into account the geographical location of directly held electricity producer capacity, estimated at 50% in Europe and 50% in the rest of the world. The modelled trajectory is the average of the 1.5°C trajectories for Europe and the world. It requires an average carbon intensity of 216 kgeqCO2/MWh in 2024 to limit the risk of global warming exceeding 1.5°C, representing a 17% reduction compared with the average carbon intensity of the electricity producers held directly by CNP Assurances and its French subsidiaries in 2019 (259 kgeqCO2/MWh). The objective covers Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect energy-related emissions) emissions generated by the production of electricity, where the data are published by the investee companies. Method for aligning coal exposure in the investment portfolio CNP Assurances is committed to achieving zero exposure to thermal coal in its investment portfolio in the European Union and OECD countries by 2030, and the rest of the world by 2040. This commitment corresponds to the 1.5°C global warming scenario developed by Climate Analytics based on complete withdrawal from the coal sector in the European Union and OECD countries by 2030, and in the rest of the world by 2040. The Group measures its exposure through its direct investments by covering the entire value chain and weighting the exposure to each investee company by the proportion of revenue derived from thermal coal."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 65 2 Sustainability Statement General disclosures Main parties concerned by social reporting impacted by the activities of CNP Assurances and its value chain ESRS S1 Own workforce ESRS S1 Employees Non-employees By contract type • Permanent employees • Temporary employees • Non-guaranteed hours employees By working time • Full-time employees • Part-time employees By gender • Male • Female • Other • Not reported By region • France • LATAM • Europe excl. France Employees provided by CNP Assurances to other organisations (ACA, EVD) Self-employed workers (self-employed contractors without their own employees) Temporary workers CDC civil servants provided to CNP Assurances under a secondment agreement Workers in the value chain ESRS S2 Suppliers’ workers Self-employed workers (self-employed contractors with their own employees) Interns Workers in the investment chain Partners Delegated management service providers Workers on CNP Assurances premises (Security, catering, staff, equipment maintenance) All employees of suppliers under contract with CNP Assurances Consumers and end-users ESRS S4 Applied to the insurance sector Insured persons Persons, groups of persons or entities covered by insurance, protected against the risks specifi ed in the insurance policy Policyholder Persons or entities who take out an insurance contract in return for a premium paid by the insured person Benefi ciaries Persons or entities designated to receive the benefi ts or the insured amount in the event of a covered event Prospects Potential customers"
"66 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement General disclosures 2.1.4 Impact, risk and opportunity (IRO) management 2.1.4.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Disclosures on the materiality assessment process The information published in the Sustainability Statement is based on the application of a double materiality perspective. The two dimensions covered by the double materiality assessment are as follows: • impact materiality, corresponding to the material positive or negative, actual or potential impacts on the environment and people connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain; • financial materiality, corresponding to the positive effects (opportunities) and negative effects (risks) of sustainability matters on the undertaking's financial performance. CNP Assurances’ assessment covers its entire value chain, including internal operations, insurance activities, investing activities, and all upstream and downstream value chain activities. A more detailed description of the value chain is provided below. The assessment is conducted in three stages: (1) identification of Impacts, Risks and Opportunities, (2) their assessment and (3) setting of a materiality threshold, which determines the content of the Sustainability Statement. Identification of impacts, risks and opportunities The first step in the double materiality assessment consists of drawing up the list of Impacts, Risks and Opportunities (IROs), based on the following principles: • all the sustainability topics, sub-topics and sub-sub-topics listed in Appendix A (AR 16) of ESRS 1 are considered. Some of the sub-topics have been merged to focus the list of IROs on activities where CNP Assurances is likely to have a negative impact, and some sub-topics have been excluded because they are not related to CNP Assurances' business; • preparation of the list is based on the existing risk maps, such as the Group risk map and the duty of care risk map, as well as the list of risks previously used to prepare the NFPS; • in addition, certain dependencies are identified, such as economic dependence on a service provider, or exposure to assets dependent on services that are part of an ecosystem qualified as being at risk; • IROs are determined for the entire CNP Assurances upstream and downstream value chain; • the IROs are considered on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account the action plans implemented by the Group to prevent, mitigate or remedy the occurrence of risks and negative impacts, or to amplify the positive impacts and opportunities; • the description of the process of assessing climate impacts and risks, and in particular the reference climate scenarios used, are described in the ESRS E1 climate change transition plan. Impact, risk and opportunity assessment Each impact, risk and opportunity was assessed to determine the level of materiality of the sustainability topics. This assessment will be reviewed annually from 2025. The positive or negative, actual or potential impacts were assessed according to the following criteria: • scale, corresponding to the degree of severity of the impact’s consequences for the stakeholder concerned in the short term (less than 1 year) and medium term (between 1 and 5 years); • scope, corresponding to the extent of the impact’s consequences for the stakeholder concerned in the short/ medium term. This includes the geographical scope for environmental matters, and the number of people affected for social matters; • irremediable character of the impact, corresponding to impacts that cannot be remedied in the short to medium term. This criterion only applies to negative impacts; • likelihood of occurrence; • long-term impact, when the impact’s materiality is assessed as being greater over the long term (more than five years). In accordance with ESRS 1, an exception applies to negative human rights impacts for which the severity of the impact takes precedence over its likelihood."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 67 2 Sustainability Statement General disclosures Impact materiality Criterion Short- and medium-term impact(1) Long-term impact(2) Severity Likelihood of occurrence Scale Scope Irremediable character(3) Evaluation sources List of identified impacts – positive and negative, confirmed or potential – resulting from CNP Assurances’ own operations and upstream and downstream value chain Score Score according to a dedicated scale Score according to a dedicated scale Yes/No/N/A Unlikely/ Likely/Very likely or actual(4) Lower/Similar/Higher Final score for each IRO (Scale + Scope + Irremediable character) x Likelihood x Long-term impact An additional method is used to assess more accurately the materiality of the investments’ negative impacts on environmental matters, based on a combination of: • the materiality of the negative impacts of a business sector on each environmental matter considered. Materiality is determined in this case based on information in the Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure (ENCORE®) database. The business sectors used are those in the NACE nomenclature; • the breakdown of amounts invested by CNP Assurances by business sector. In order to determine whether the impact of CNP Assurances' investing activity is material for a given environmental topic, it is calculated for all the amounts invested in business sectors considered as having ""high"" or ""very high"" impacts according to the ENCORE database for the environmental topic concerned. This amount is used to determine the scope of the impact. Risks and opportunities are assessed using the following criteria: • severity, corresponding to the potential effect of the risk or opportunity on financial performance in the short (less than 1 year) or medium term (between 1 and 5 years); • likelihood of occurrence of the risk or opportunity; • long-term financial impact, when the impact’s materiality is assessed as being greater over the long term (more than five years). Financial materiality Criterion Short- and medium-term financial impact(5) Long-term impact(6) Severity Likelihood of occurrence Evaluation sources List of identified risks and opportunities – positive and negative, confirmed or potential – resulting from CNP Assurances’ own operations and upstream and downstream value chain Score Score according to a dedicated scale Unlikely/Likely/ Very likely or actual Lower/Similar/ Higher Final score for each IRO Severity x Likelihood x Long-term financial impact The criteria for assessing the severity and likelihood of impacts, risks and opportunities have been defined in line with the rating scales used in existing risk maps, such as the Group risk map – which includes the ESG risks identified above – and the duty of care risk map. (1) Short-term: less than 1 year; medium-term: between 1 and 5 years. The findings of the impact assessments are the same for the short and medium term in this analysis (2) Long-term: more than 5 years (3) Applicable only to negative impacts (4) An exception applies to negative human rights impacts for which the severity of the impact takes precedence over its likelihood, which is therefore considered to be very likely or current (ESRS 1) (5) Short-term: less than 1 year; medium-term: between 1 and 5 years (6) Long term: more than 5 years"
"68 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Dialogue with affected stakeholders and definition of materiality thresholds The double materiality assessment is performed by the operational departments and business units, which have a good understanding of stakeholders’ interests and views, by incorporating the structured stakeholder dialogue process presented in the section 2.1.3.2 Stakeholder Interests and Views (SBM-2). After consulting CNP Assurances’ corporate departments (in particular the Strategy Department, the Group Risks Department, the Human Resources Department, the Investments Department, the Purchasing Department and the Legal Department) and business units, the sustainability representatives of its shareholder, La Banque Postale, and the sustainability correspondents within the subsidiaries of the CNP Assurances Group, the Group Sustainability Department and the Accounting Department check the overall consistency of the assessment and propose a materiality threshold that is reviewed by the members of the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. The double materiality assessment was presented to the Audit and Risk Committee and the CSR Committee in 2024 and it will be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval in 2025. 2.1.4.2 Disclosure requirements covered by CNP Assurances' Sustainability Statement (IRO‐2) List of ESRS disclosure requirements complied with in preparing the Sustainability Statement following the outcome of the materiality assessment The list of reporting requirements is detailed in section 2.6.2 ESRS disclosure requirements (IRO-2). 2.2 Environmental information 2.2.1 Climate change (ESRS E1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies POSITIVE IMPACTS Investing activities Investments in assets used to finance the energy and environmental transition Commitment to green investments, formally documented in the due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries NEGATIVE IMPACTS Internal operations GHG emissions from the Group’s own operations and the office supply chain, resulting in damage to ecosystems and people’s health • Energy savings policy • Travel policy • EcoWatt approach Scope: CNP Assurances SA • Local policy specific to each entity, taking into account the local context Insurance activities Inability to insure losses arising from adverse weather events, resulting in reduced insurance cover for policyholders • Reinsurance strategy • Group ORSA report Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Investing activities GHG emissions from the assets in the investment portfolio, which may cause damage to ecosystems and people’s health • Sector-based exclusion policies for coal, oil and gas Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Shareholder engagement policy • ESG-based investment selection • Due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 69 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies RISKS Internal operations Physical climate risk affecting the Group’s offices and employees due to adverse weather events, which may lead to business interruptions and costs • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Insurance activities Exposure of the insurance business to physical climate risk, which may lead to an increase in insurance rates or a reduction in protection • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Exposure of the insurance business to physical climate risk, which may have consequences for human health and lead to an increase in insurance claims • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Non-compliance with sustainability regulations applicable to insurance contracts, which may result in significant fines and adversely affect the Group’s image and reputation • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Investing activities Exposure of investing activities to physical climate risk, which may lead to a fall in asset values • Group risk management policies • Policy for integrating sustainability risks into investment decisions Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Macro-economic tensions related to climate transition risks and changes in energy prices, which may lead to a fall in asset values • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Policy for integrating sustainability risks into investment decisions Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries. Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. Climate change mitigation policies (E1-2) and targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-4) are published in the transition plan (E1-1)."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 65 2 Sustainability Statement General disclosures Main parties concerned by social reporting impacted by the activities of CNP Assurances and its value chain ESRS S1 Own workforce ESRS S1 Employees Non-employees By contract type • Permanent employees • Temporary employees • Non-guaranteed hours employees By working time • Full-time employees • Part-time employees By gender • Male • Female • Other • Not reported By region • France • LATAM • Europe excl. France Employees provided by CNP Assurances to other organisations (ACA, EVD) Self-employed workers (self-employed contractors without their own employees) Temporary workers CDC civil servants provided to CNP Assurances under a secondment agreement Workers in the value chain ESRS S2 Suppliers’ workers Self-employed workers (self-employed contractors with their own employees) Interns Workers in the investment chain Partners Delegated management service providers Workers on CNP Assurances premises (Security, catering, staff, equipment maintenance) All employees of suppliers under contract with CNP Assurances Consumers and end-users ESRS S4 Applied to the insurance sector Insured persons Persons, groups of persons or entities covered by insurance, protected against the risks specifi ed in the insurance policy Policyholder Persons or entities who take out an insurance contract in return for a premium paid by the insured person Benefi ciaries Persons or entities designated to receive the benefi ts or the insured amount in the event of a covered event Prospects Potential customers"
"66 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement General disclosures 2.1.4 Impact, risk and opportunity (IRO) management 2.1.4.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Disclosures on the materiality assessment process The information published in the Sustainability Statement is based on the application of a double materiality perspective. The two dimensions covered by the double materiality assessment are as follows: • impact materiality, corresponding to the material positive or negative, actual or potential impacts on the environment and people connected with the undertaking’s own operations and value chain; • financial materiality, corresponding to the positive effects (opportunities) and negative effects (risks) of sustainability matters on the undertaking's financial performance. CNP Assurances’ assessment covers its entire value chain, including internal operations, insurance activities, investing activities, and all upstream and downstream value chain activities. A more detailed description of the value chain is provided below. The assessment is conducted in three stages: (1) identification of Impacts, Risks and Opportunities, (2) their assessment and (3) setting of a materiality threshold, which determines the content of the Sustainability Statement. Identification of impacts, risks and opportunities The first step in the double materiality assessment consists of drawing up the list of Impacts, Risks and Opportunities (IROs), based on the following principles: • all the sustainability topics, sub-topics and sub-sub-topics listed in Appendix A (AR 16) of ESRS 1 are considered. Some of the sub-topics have been merged to focus the list of IROs on activities where CNP Assurances is likely to have a negative impact, and some sub-topics have been excluded because they are not related to CNP Assurances' business; • preparation of the list is based on the existing risk maps, such as the Group risk map and the duty of care risk map, as well as the list of risks previously used to prepare the NFPS; • in addition, certain dependencies are identified, such as economic dependence on a service provider, or exposure to assets dependent on services that are part of an ecosystem qualified as being at risk; • IROs are determined for the entire CNP Assurances upstream and downstream value chain; • the IROs are considered on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account the action plans implemented by the Group to prevent, mitigate or remedy the occurrence of risks and negative impacts, or to amplify the positive impacts and opportunities; • the description of the process of assessing climate impacts and risks, and in particular the reference climate scenarios used, are described in the ESRS E1 climate change transition plan. Impact, risk and opportunity assessment Each impact, risk and opportunity was assessed to determine the level of materiality of the sustainability topics. This assessment will be reviewed annually from 2025. The positive or negative, actual or potential impacts were assessed according to the following criteria: • scale, corresponding to the degree of severity of the impact’s consequences for the stakeholder concerned in the short term (less than 1 year) and medium term (between 1 and 5 years); • scope, corresponding to the extent of the impact’s consequences for the stakeholder concerned in the short/ medium term. This includes the geographical scope for environmental matters, and the number of people affected for social matters; • irremediable character of the impact, corresponding to impacts that cannot be remedied in the short to medium term. This criterion only applies to negative impacts; • likelihood of occurrence; • long-term impact, when the impact’s materiality is assessed as being greater over the long term (more than five years). In accordance with ESRS 1, an exception applies to negative human rights impacts for which the severity of the impact takes precedence over its likelihood."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 67 2 Sustainability Statement General disclosures Impact materiality Criterion Short- and medium-term impact(1) Long-term impact(2) Severity Likelihood of occurrence Scale Scope Irremediable character(3) Evaluation sources List of identified impacts – positive and negative, confirmed or potential – resulting from CNP Assurances’ own operations and upstream and downstream value chain Score Score according to a dedicated scale Score according to a dedicated scale Yes/No/N/A Unlikely/ Likely/Very likely or actual(4) Lower/Similar/Higher Final score for each IRO (Scale + Scope + Irremediable character) x Likelihood x Long-term impact An additional method is used to assess more accurately the materiality of the investments’ negative impacts on environmental matters, based on a combination of: • the materiality of the negative impacts of a business sector on each environmental matter considered. Materiality is determined in this case based on information in the Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure (ENCORE®) database. The business sectors used are those in the NACE nomenclature; • the breakdown of amounts invested by CNP Assurances by business sector. In order to determine whether the impact of CNP Assurances' investing activity is material for a given environmental topic, it is calculated for all the amounts invested in business sectors considered as having ""high"" or ""very high"" impacts according to the ENCORE database for the environmental topic concerned. This amount is used to determine the scope of the impact. Risks and opportunities are assessed using the following criteria: • severity, corresponding to the potential effect of the risk or opportunity on financial performance in the short (less than 1 year) or medium term (between 1 and 5 years); • likelihood of occurrence of the risk or opportunity; • long-term financial impact, when the impact’s materiality is assessed as being greater over the long term (more than five years). Financial materiality Criterion Short- and medium-term financial impact(5) Long-term impact(6) Severity Likelihood of occurrence Evaluation sources List of identified risks and opportunities – positive and negative, confirmed or potential – resulting from CNP Assurances’ own operations and upstream and downstream value chain Score Score according to a dedicated scale Unlikely/Likely/ Very likely or actual Lower/Similar/ Higher Final score for each IRO Severity x Likelihood x Long-term financial impact The criteria for assessing the severity and likelihood of impacts, risks and opportunities have been defined in line with the rating scales used in existing risk maps, such as the Group risk map – which includes the ESG risks identified above – and the duty of care risk map. (1) Short-term: less than 1 year; medium-term: between 1 and 5 years. The findings of the impact assessments are the same for the short and medium term in this analysis (2) Long-term: more than 5 years (3) Applicable only to negative impacts (4) An exception applies to negative human rights impacts for which the severity of the impact takes precedence over its likelihood, which is therefore considered to be very likely or current (ESRS 1) (5) Short-term: less than 1 year; medium-term: between 1 and 5 years (6) Long term: more than 5 years"
"68 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Dialogue with affected stakeholders and definition of materiality thresholds The double materiality assessment is performed by the operational departments and business units, which have a good understanding of stakeholders’ interests and views, by incorporating the structured stakeholder dialogue process presented in the section 2.1.3.2 Stakeholder Interests and Views (SBM-2). After consulting CNP Assurances’ corporate departments (in particular the Strategy Department, the Group Risks Department, the Human Resources Department, the Investments Department, the Purchasing Department and the Legal Department) and business units, the sustainability representatives of its shareholder, La Banque Postale, and the sustainability correspondents within the subsidiaries of the CNP Assurances Group, the Group Sustainability Department and the Accounting Department check the overall consistency of the assessment and propose a materiality threshold that is reviewed by the members of the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. The double materiality assessment was presented to the Audit and Risk Committee and the CSR Committee in 2024 and it will be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval in 2025. 2.1.4.2 Disclosure requirements covered by CNP Assurances' Sustainability Statement (IRO‐2) List of ESRS disclosure requirements complied with in preparing the Sustainability Statement following the outcome of the materiality assessment The list of reporting requirements is detailed in section 2.6.2 ESRS disclosure requirements (IRO-2). 2.2 Environmental information 2.2.1 Climate change (ESRS E1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies POSITIVE IMPACTS Investing activities Investments in assets used to finance the energy and environmental transition Commitment to green investments, formally documented in the due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries NEGATIVE IMPACTS Internal operations GHG emissions from the Group’s own operations and the office supply chain, resulting in damage to ecosystems and people’s health • Energy savings policy • Travel policy • EcoWatt approach Scope: CNP Assurances SA • Local policy specific to each entity, taking into account the local context Insurance activities Inability to insure losses arising from adverse weather events, resulting in reduced insurance cover for policyholders • Reinsurance strategy • Group ORSA report Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Investing activities GHG emissions from the assets in the investment portfolio, which may cause damage to ecosystems and people’s health • Sector-based exclusion policies for coal, oil and gas Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Shareholder engagement policy • ESG-based investment selection • Due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 69 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies RISKS Internal operations Physical climate risk affecting the Group’s offices and employees due to adverse weather events, which may lead to business interruptions and costs • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Insurance activities Exposure of the insurance business to physical climate risk, which may lead to an increase in insurance rates or a reduction in protection • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Exposure of the insurance business to physical climate risk, which may have consequences for human health and lead to an increase in insurance claims • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Non-compliance with sustainability regulations applicable to insurance contracts, which may result in significant fines and adversely affect the Group’s image and reputation • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Investing activities Exposure of investing activities to physical climate risk, which may lead to a fall in asset values • Group risk management policies • Policy for integrating sustainability risks into investment decisions Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Macro-economic tensions related to climate transition risks and changes in energy prices, which may lead to a fall in asset values • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Policy for integrating sustainability risks into investment decisions Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries. Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. Climate change mitigation policies (E1-2) and targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-4) are published in the transition plan (E1-1)."
"68 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Dialogue with affected stakeholders and definition of materiality thresholds The double materiality assessment is performed by the operational departments and business units, which have a good understanding of stakeholders’ interests and views, by incorporating the structured stakeholder dialogue process presented in the section 2.1.3.2 Stakeholder Interests and Views (SBM-2). After consulting CNP Assurances’ corporate departments (in particular the Strategy Department, the Group Risks Department, the Human Resources Department, the Investments Department, the Purchasing Department and the Legal Department) and business units, the sustainability representatives of its shareholder, La Banque Postale, and the sustainability correspondents within the subsidiaries of the CNP Assurances Group, the Group Sustainability Department and the Accounting Department check the overall consistency of the assessment and propose a materiality threshold that is reviewed by the members of the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. The double materiality assessment was presented to the Audit and Risk Committee and the CSR Committee in 2024 and it will be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval in 2025. 2.1.4.2 Disclosure requirements covered by CNP Assurances' Sustainability Statement (IRO‐2) List of ESRS disclosure requirements complied with in preparing the Sustainability Statement following the outcome of the materiality assessment The list of reporting requirements is detailed in section 2.6.2 ESRS disclosure requirements (IRO-2). 2.2 Environmental information 2.2.1 Climate change (ESRS E1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies POSITIVE IMPACTS Investing activities Investments in assets used to finance the energy and environmental transition Commitment to green investments, formally documented in the due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries NEGATIVE IMPACTS Internal operations GHG emissions from the Group’s own operations and the office supply chain, resulting in damage to ecosystems and people’s health • Energy savings policy • Travel policy • EcoWatt approach Scope: CNP Assurances SA • Local policy specific to each entity, taking into account the local context Insurance activities Inability to insure losses arising from adverse weather events, resulting in reduced insurance cover for policyholders • Reinsurance strategy • Group ORSA report Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Investing activities GHG emissions from the assets in the investment portfolio, which may cause damage to ecosystems and people’s health • Sector-based exclusion policies for coal, oil and gas Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Shareholder engagement policy • ESG-based investment selection • Due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 69 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies RISKS Internal operations Physical climate risk affecting the Group’s offices and employees due to adverse weather events, which may lead to business interruptions and costs • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Insurance activities Exposure of the insurance business to physical climate risk, which may lead to an increase in insurance rates or a reduction in protection • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Exposure of the insurance business to physical climate risk, which may have consequences for human health and lead to an increase in insurance claims • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Non-compliance with sustainability regulations applicable to insurance contracts, which may result in significant fines and adversely affect the Group’s image and reputation • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Investing activities Exposure of investing activities to physical climate risk, which may lead to a fall in asset values • Group risk management policies • Policy for integrating sustainability risks into investment decisions Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Macro-economic tensions related to climate transition risks and changes in energy prices, which may lead to a fall in asset values • Group risk management policies Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Policy for integrating sustainability risks into investment decisions Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries. Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. Climate change mitigation policies (E1-2) and targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-4) are published in the transition plan (E1-1)."
"70 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1‐1) 1.5°C reference scenario CNP Assurances targets Levers and actions Internal operations 50% between 2019 and 2030 50% between 2019 and 2030 Reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions Energy efficiency Renewable energy Energy sufficiency Investments in energy assets Coal Climate Analytics’ 1.5°C scenario: complete exit from the thermal coal sector in the European Union and OECD countries by 2030, and the rest of the world by 2040 Coal Zero direct exposure to thermal coal in the investment portfolio in the European Union and OECD countries by 2030, and the rest of the world by 2040 Exclusion Shareholder engagement Oil and gas 1.5°C scenario based on the International Energy Agency’s target of Net-Zero Emissions by 2050: development of fossil oil and gas fields halted since 2021 (new fields or extensions) Oil and gas Exclusion of project finance and investments in companies developing new fossil oil or gas exploration or production projects Exclusion Shareholder engagement Electricity producers One-Earth Climate Model (OECM) 1.5°C trajectories taking into account the geographical location of directly- owned electricity producers: 216 kgeqCO2/MWh by the end of 2024 Electricity producers Objective of reducing carbon intensity by 17% between 2019 and 2024, to 216 kgeqCO2/MWh by the end of 2024. Shareholder engagement ESG asset selection and management strategy Investments in companies -40% to -60% between 2020 and 2030 Global GHG emission reductions (IPCC Sixth Assessment Report: trajectories with little or no risk of global warming exceeding 1.5°C) -53% between 2019 and 2029 Objective of reducing by 53% the carbon footprint of the directly-held equity, corporate bond and infrastructure portfolio to 50 kgeqCO2 /€k invested between 2019 and the end of 2029 ESG asset selection and management strategy Property investments 13 kgeqCO2/sq.m. by the end of 2029 Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM) 1.5°C trajectories, taking into account the type and geographical location of directly-owned properties 13 kgeqCO2/sq.m.* by the end of 2029 Objective of reducing by 32% the carbon footprint of the portfolio of properties held directly through club deals and the Lamartine fund to 13 kgeqCO2/sq.m. between 2019 and the end of 2029 ESG asset selection and management strategy All investments Limiting global warming to +1.5°C depends on achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 Membership of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance and commitment to achieving a carbon-neutral investment portfolio by 2050 ESG asset selection and management strategy"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 71 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.1.1 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Every year, when renewing its membership of the UN Global Compact, CNP Assurances reaffirms its determination to manage its impact on the environment. The company is committed to supporting the transition towards a low-carbon, resilient economy that does not destroy natural resources. This commitment is based on setting ambitious targets in terms of climate change mitigation and adaptation, monitoring the environmental impact of CNP Assurances’ activities (investment, insurance and internal operations) and taking steps to reduce this impact and achieve the targets set. GHG emissions reduction targets set for internal operations CNP Assurances has undertaken to reduce direct and indirect (Scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions from internal operations by 50% between 2019 and 2030. This objective is in line with the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to limit global warming to 1.5°C (IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C). The emissions concerned include direct emissions (Scope 1) and emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2). Baseline value (2019) Target value (2030) Reduction target (%) Value in 2024 2024 Achievement rate Scope Location-based Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reported in 2023 incl. Cyprus 6,774 teqCO2 3,387 teqCO2 50% N/A(1) N/A CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries Location-based Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions excl. Cyprus 5,580 teqCO2 2,790 teqCO2 50% 2,431 teqCO2 113% CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings (CIH) has been removed from the base year in order to enable meaningful year-on-year comparisons. This subsidiary in Cyprus, which has now been sold, was a significant contributor to the GHG emissions from internal operations of CNP Assurances. Scope 3 emissions from internal operations are not included in the scope of the emissions reduction targets, but are subject to mitigation measures, as presented in the section 2.2.1.3 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (E1-3)”. GHG emissions reduction targets for the investment portfolio In 2019, CNP Assurances joined the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance and committed to achieving carbon neutrality in its investment portfolio by 2050. Launched in September 2019 at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance is a member- led initiative of over 80 institutional investors managing $9,500 billion in investments, that are committed to transitioning their investment portfolios to net zero GHG emissions by 2050. By targeting the transition of their portfolio to net-zero GHG emissions, Alliance members hope to help limit global warming to 1.5°C in line with the Paris Agreement. The Alliance is inviting many other institutional investors to join their effort, in order to rapidly achieve critical mass and play a key role in decarbonising the global economy and investing in climate change resilience. As part of this long-term commitment, CNP Assurances and the other members of the Alliance will take into account advances in available scientific knowledge, particularly the conclusions of the IPCC, and will regularly report on the progress made by setting interim objectives every five years to 2050. Joining the Alliance involves implementing three action levers: regularly measuring the investment portfolio’s alignment with the Paris Agreement and publishing the progress made, maintaining shareholder dialogue with investee companies to ensure they are also targeting carbon neutrality, and lobbying for public policies that promote the transition to a decarbonised economy. Following a stakeholder consultation in 2020, the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance published its inaugural Target-Setting Protocol in January 2021. The protocol described how Alliance members would set climate targets to be achieved by 2025, based on current scientific knowledge when the targets were set. The protocol is updated annually to expand its coverage and take account of advances in available scientific knowledge, including the conclusions of the IPCC. The initial targets set by CNP Assurances in February 2021 have since been revised to reflect the latest published recommendations. At 31 December 2024, CNP Assurances' investment portfolio, all asset classes combined, totalled more than €412 billion(2). Decarbonisation trajectories aligned with the Paris Agreement cover €114 billion(3) of investments in directly-held equities, corporate bonds and infrastructure assets, the portfolio of properties held directly through club deals and the Lamartine fund, and directly-held shares and bonds issued by electricity producers, together representing approximately 28% of CNP Assurances’ total investment portfolio(4). (1) As Cyprus Insurance Holdings (CIH) is in the process of being sold and outside the CSRD scope of consolidation, CNP Assurances is not able to determine GHG emissions including CIH for 2024 (2) Includes the investments of CNP UniCredit Vita, which was in the process of being sold at 31 December 2014 (3) 70% of which is covered by carbon emissions disclosures (4) The decarbonisation pathways cover investments made by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries"
"72 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Targets aligned with a 1.5°C trajectory CNP Assurances' objectives are based on the recommendations of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, as set out in the Target-Setting Protocol (4th edition). Since data are not always available for all asset classes, the calculation was done in a continuous improvement perspective. Participation in the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance projects will help fine-tune the results year by year. Method for aligning the reduction in the carbon footprint of the portfolio of directly-held equities, corporate bonds and infrastructure assets. The target of a 53% reduction in the carbon footprint of the portfolio of equities, corporate bonds and infrastructures held directly by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries between 2019 and 2029 is in line with the IPCC's trajectories with little or no risk of global warming exceeding 1.5°C (IPCC Sixth Assessment Report). The target covers Scope 1 emissions (direct emissions) and Scope 2 emissions (indirect energy-related emissions) where the data are published by the investee companies. Method for aligning the reduction in the carbon footprint of the property portfolio The target of a 32% reduction per square metre in the carbon footprint of the portfolio of properties held directly through club deals and the Lamartine fund between 2019 and 2029 is in line with the 1.5°C trajectories published by the Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM). The trajectory for CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries was modelled using the CRREM scenarios, taking into account the type of asset (offices, retail units, residential units, warehouses) and the geographical location of the properties held directly by CNP Assurances. The trajectory modelled in this way requires a reduction of 32% per square metre to limit the risk of global warming exceeding 1.5°C. The target covers actual or estimated Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect energy-related emissions) emissions from the buildings in the portfolio. Method for aligning the reduction in the carbon intensity of electricity producers The objective of reducing the carbon intensity of electricity producers directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries by 17% between 2019 and 2024 is in line with the 1.5°C trajectories of the One-Earth Climate Model (OECM). The trajectory was modelled using the OECM scenarios, taking into account the geographical location of directly held electricity producer capacity, estimated at 50% in Europe and 50% in the rest of the world. The modelled trajectory is the average of the 1.5°C trajectories for Europe and the world. It requires an average carbon intensity of 216 kgeqCO2/MWh in 2024 to limit the risk of global warming exceeding 1.5°C, representing a 17% reduction compared with the average carbon intensity of the electricity producers held directly by CNP Assurances and its French subsidiaries in 2019 (259 kgeqCO2/MWh). The objective covers Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect energy-related emissions) emissions generated by the production of electricity, where the data are published by the investee companies. Method for aligning coal exposure in the investment portfolio CNP Assurances is committed to achieving zero exposure to thermal coal in its investment portfolio in the European Union and OECD countries by 2030, and the rest of the world by 2040. This commitment corresponds to the 1.5°C global warming scenario developed by Climate Analytics based on complete withdrawal from the coal sector in the European Union and OECD countries by 2030, and in the rest of the world by 2040. The Group measures its exposure through its direct investments by covering the entire value chain and weighting the exposure to each investee company by the proportion of revenue derived from thermal coal."
"86 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.1.4 Beyond carbon Biodiversity Disclosure requirements concerning major biodiversity matters are presented in ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate change adaptation Mitigation efforts are no longer enough and adaptation to climate change is now essential to reduce the vulnerability of populations to its negative effects. It is estimated that average temperatures have increased by 1.1°C compared to pre- industrial levels and global warming is projected to hit 3.1°C by the end of the century. As a result, adaptation efforts are now urgently needed to protect populations and ecosystems. At a time when public finances are under pressure, it is essential to mobilise companies that are engaged and ready to contribute over the long term. This is where insurers and investors can play a major role by supporting sustainable projects and developing appropriate insurance mechanisms. The first step in adapting to climate change is to measure the physical risks so that action plans can be put in place to reduce them if necessary. CNP Assurances has conducted several studies to measure the physical risks in its value chain and has taken action where appropriate to address these risks, as explained below. Exposure of investments in countries, companies, buildings or forests to climate hazards Several studies conducted by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries on the physical risks associated with the investment portfolio have highlighted the exposure of certain countries, companies, buildings or forests to various climate hazards. The objective of CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, based on the studies and data currently available, is to limit this exposure through appropriate investment decisions. Management of these investments is based on ESG analyses that include climate risks. Adaptation plans for forestry assets have been in place for many years. The manager of these assets, Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts, has been working to reduce their exposure to the risks associated with climate change based on an analysis covering four areas: the management plan, insurance coverage, geographical diversity, and diversity of species. In 2023, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries updated their analysis of the physical risk exposure of their property portfolios, taking into account local physical risks and each building’s characteristics. Adaptation plans for the most exposed assets were drawn up in 2024. The Group’s dialogue with companies in the portfolio pursuant to the shareholder engagement policy includes discussions on how they manage their physical risk exposures. Estimating the impacts of climate change on mortality, morbidity and the occurrence of natural disasters that affect claims experience To reduce the impact of climate risks on its insurance business, CNP Assurances follows a broad-based approach to protection, including for climate risks, by purchasing reinsurance cover against the risk of higher-than-expected mortality rates. All causes of higher‐than‐expected mortality are taken into account, ranging from pandemics to heatwaves. Life and non-life reinsurance programmes offer CNP Assurances protection against the occurrence of natural disasters that are likely to be more severe and occur more frequently in the coming decades due to global warming. CNP Assurances closely monitors developments in respect of these reinsurance treaties, which are particularly sensitive to physical risks. The Group also contributes to the process of adapting to climate change through the death, temporary and permanent disability and health cover provided by its insurance policies (group health and personal risk insurance, individual health and personal risk insurance, term creditor insurance). These products cover death, lost-time accidents or illness, medical consultations, hospitalisation costs and medical expenses incurred by policyholders following a natural disaster (flood, drought, storm, etc.), a heatwave or a vector-borne disease (dengue, chikungunya, etc.), the frequency and severity of which are likely to increase in the coming years as a result of global warming. Estimating the risk to business continuity in the event of extreme weather events Concerning internal operations, the offices and employees of CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries are located in countries (approximately 75% in Europe and 25% in Latin America) which, due to their level of development, are not considered as being the most vulnerable to weather events likely to severely disrupt their operations. Physical risks associated with the Group’s internal operations are managed by regularly updating contingency plans, in order to ensure that staff would be able to continue working following a weather event. Just transition As investors, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries endeavour to have a positive impact on society as a whole. As a signatory of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and in line with its firm belief that taking ESG criteria into account when assessing an investment contributes to value creation and optimises the yield-to-risk ratio over time, CNP Assurances applies a responsible investor strategy. The four principles guiding the integration of ESG criteria in the investment policy are as follows: • ensure respect for human rights as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; • ensure compliance with the International Labour Organization (ILO) Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; • promote the protection of the environment, the energy and environmental transition, and initiatives to reduce or adapt to climate change; • contribute to the fight against corruption. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries receive ESG risk alerts concerning companies in their portfolios. The alerts are triggered by the ESG analyses performed by the asset manager, Ostrum AM, and are discussed at the quarterly meetings of the SRI Committee made up of representatives of both CNP Assurances and Ostrum AM. When an alert corresponds to a breach of the fundamental principles of the Global Compact, CNP Assurances asks Ostrum AM to engage with the company in question. If at the end of this engagement, no quick remedy to the situation can be found, CNP Assurances may decide to exclude the company from the investment portfolio."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 87 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Since 2022, the just transition has been addressed in the shareholder engagement policies applied by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries. CNP Assurances is a founding member of the first global investor engagement coalition on the just transition. The coalition's shareholder engagement policy aims to encourage companies to include in their strategy the social impacts of the transition to a low-carbon economy. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries took part in the work that led to the publication in 2024 of an initial awareness-raising grid for investors, and also supported collaborative engagement of the coalition members. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries include consideration of the social impacts of climate transition plans in their analysis of Say-on-Climate resolutions. 2.2.1.2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-2) CNP Assurances’ policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation are described in section 2.2.2.1 “Climate change mitigation transition plan (E1-1)”. 2.2.1.3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (E1-3) Actions taken and resources allocated to achieve climate change mitigation for internal operations Adapting premises to climate change For a number of years now, CNP Assurances has integrated climate change adaptation into its process of selecting office premises, choosing buildings that meet exacting environmental standards. • in 2022, CNP Assurances transferred its headquarters to Issy-les-Moulineaux, to a building that meets the latest environmental standards (HQE Exceptional, BREEAM Outstanding, and BEPOS positive energy certification); • towards the end of 2023, CVA moved into a new V4 LEED Platinum-certified headquarters building in Milan. The building has been completely renovated to high standards of energy performance, based on an integrated and systemic strategy; • in 2024, CNP UniCredit Vita carried out a maintenance and restructuring project to improve the energy efficiency of its two office buildings, obtaining LEED Gold certification in December; • CNP Luxembourg has launched a project to relocate in 2025 to a building that meets the latest ESG criteria. The move will radically reduce the company’s carbon footprint compared with the two old buildings that it currently leases; • towards the end of 2023, CNP Santander relocated to a building with a high energy performance; • in Brazil, Caixa Vida e Previdência improved its energy efficiency management in 2024 by adopting measures such as the use of exclusively-LED light bulbs, lighting automation systems with luminosity sensors, and efficient air conditioning equipment. Its buildings in São Paulo and Barueri are LEED® Gold and Platinum-certified, respectively, and are in the process of obtaining LEED Interior Design and Construction (ID+C) certification; • Youse operates from a building with two LEED certifications: Gold for maintenance and operation and Silver for construction; • CNP Seguradora’s Barueri offices are in a LEED Gold- certified building, while its Berrini office building has LEED Platinum certification and obtains all of its energy from the free energy market. Promoting energy sufficiency and digital technologies CNP Assurances has adopted an energy-efficiency policy that focuses on improving the operation of heating, air-conditioning and ventilation systems through expert management of programmable time settings. Since 2022, it has applied a policy of setting heating to a maximum of 19°C and switching off neon signs at night. The Group has joined the EcoWatt responsible energy consumption initiative and is committed to reducing its consumption in periods of peak energy demand. IT processing centres and workstations are two key features of the digital transformation, and it is vital that the Group remains vigilant about their energy consumption. A pilot project is also under way to cut down on the energy used for ICT and data infrastructure. Employee awareness-raising and training CNP Assurances has set up a ""Green Actions"" programme to raise employee awareness about the need to reduce its environmental footprint. A Group charter has been sent out to all employees, inviting them to respect ecological principles such as sorting waste, reducing digital pollution and being energy efficient. In 2021, sustainable finance training was offered to 2,487 employees, covering 75% of the workforce. In 2023, 86% of the Group's employees followed an e-learning course on the ecological crisis, developed in partnership with well-known specialist networks. ""Climate Fresk” workshops have also been organised to help give employees a better understanding of the causes and impacts of climate change. Investing activities Sector exclusion policy CNP Assurances excludes from their investments companies linked to climate change impacts, such as those in the conventional or non-conventional coal, oil and fossil gas sectors. These policies are set out in the Climate Transition Plan. Shareholder engagement policy At the general meetings of listed companies in the portfolio, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries defend the interests of their policyholders and put their ESG commitments into practice by making their support for Say-on-Climate resolutions dependent on strict and clearly-defined criteria. They also engage in dialogue with investee companies and asset managers, face-to-face or by letter, to encourage them to reduce their impact on climate change while protecting their employees from the effects of the transition."
"88 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information In 2024, CNP Assurances voted at 84 General Meetings of 82 companies in 11 countries. These companies account for 100% of CNP Assurances’ directly held equity portfolio. It voted on 1,717 resolutions, approving 74.6% and opposing 25.3% of them. The negative votes predominantly concerned excessive remuneration for certain senior executives. A breakdown by topic of the votes cast by CNP Assurances is available in the report on its shareholder engagement policy on the cnp.fr website. In 2024, CNP Assurances continued its bilateral dialogues (16 direct dialogues and two dialogues carried out at its request by Ostrum AM) on governance, climate and biodiversity challenges. Engagement is organised with companies in which CNP Assurances is a shareholder or bondholder, as well as with asset management companies. In 2024, 41% of GHG emissions from direct holdings (equities, corporate bonds and infrastructure) were covered by the shareholder engagement work carried out by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries with the management of the companies concerned (bilateral dialogue or letters requesting a halt to new fossil fuel exploration and production projects). ESG-based investment selection CNP Assurances believes that including ESG criteria in investment decision processes contributes to value creation and enhances the risk-return ratio over time. Since 2006, it has implemented a strategy of ESG integration across all asset classes. Details of how ESG criteria are taken into account for each asset class are set out in the transition plan. Green investments Massive investments are needed to limit global warming to 1.5°C. These investments contribute to the energy transition and also help CNP Assurances to manage its transition risk. CNP Assurances is committed to increasing its green investment portfolio – green bonds, forests, environment-labelled buildings, green infrastructure such as renewable energy projects and low- carbon transport and mobility projects – to €30 billion by the end of 2025, from €10.4 billion in 2018. As of end-2024, the Group's green investments totalled €29.4 billion. Investments in forests In the forests owned by CNP Assurances, the fight against climate change is based on the natural sequestration of CO2 by trees through photosynthesis. The carbon captured each year by the Group’s forestry assets is monitored by estimating the wood’s organic growth during the year and then converting this biomass growth into captured CO2. In 2024, the gross quantity of CO2 captured by CNP Assurances' forestry assets totalled 483,653 tonnes of CO2. 2.2.1.4 Energy consumption and mix (E1-5) ESRS Reference 2024 E1-5_02 Total fossil energy consumption 6,020 MWh E1-5_15 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 28% E1-5_03 Consumption from nuclear sources 131 MWh E1-5_04 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 1% E1-5_06 Fuel consumption for renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) (MWh) 12 MWh E1-5_07 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 14,956 MWh E1-5_08 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 283 MWh E1-5_05 Total renewable energy consumption 15,252 MWh E1-5_09 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 71% E1-5_01 Total energy consumption 21,404 MWh"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 89 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.5 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions (E1-6) ESRS Reference E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 2024 SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS(1) E1-6_07 Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 1,495 teqCO2 SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS(1) E1-6_09 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 936 teqCO2 E1-6_10 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 276 teqCO2 SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS E1-6_11 Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,873,933 teqCO2 Purchased goods and services 66,685 teqCO2 Capital goods 3,270 teqCO2 Fuel and energy-related activities (not included in Scope1 or Scope 2) 562 teqCO2 Waste generated in operations 21 teqCO2 Business travel 2,889 teqCO2 Employee commuting 3,292 teqCO2 Sub-total: emissions from internal operations(2) 76,720 teqCO2 Investments (Scope 1+2)(3) 18,797,214 teqCO2 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS Total location-based GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,876,365 teqCO2 Total market-based GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,875,704 teqCO2 Voluntary disclosure of the following primary data from the carbon footprint assessment of the internal operations of CNP Assurances: - 29,609 cu.m. of water was used - 187 tonnes of waste were generated (1) Excluding investment property. Included in Investments (Scope 1+2) in Scope 3 (2) The other Scope 3 categories are not relevant to the activities of CNP Assurances (3) Emissions from the investment portfolio (category 15 of Scope 3 in the GHG protocol) cover the following: - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to listed equities and bonds held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to infrastructure assets held directly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to property assets (excluding debt), held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - domestic emissions (Scope 1) related to sovereign bonds, held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; €331 billion worth of investments were assessed (representing 80% of the total investment portfolio) with data available for €254 billion of this amount (i.e., 60% of the total portfolio). The data was supplied by data providers or was freely available. The proportion of primary data, as defined in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772, could not be determined. The calculation methodologies used, based on the recommendations of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), are set out in the section on the climate methodology used in the climate transition plan."
"90 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Scope 1 and 2 emissions of the investment portfolio TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 13,995,852 TEQCO2 Total held directly 11,960,010 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 3,506,134 teqCO2 Sovereigns 8,453,877 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 2,035,842 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 1,229,768 teqCO2 Sovereigns 806,074 teqCO2 TOTAL UNIT-LINKED FUNDS 4,801,362 TEQCO2 Total held directly 229,064 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 172,354 teqCO2 Sovereigns 56,710 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 4,572,298 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 1,522,776 teqCO2 Sovereigns 3,049,522 teqCO2 TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED AND UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 18,797,214 TEQCO2 Estimating Scope 3 emissions related to the Group's investment portfolio (known as ""financed emissions"") involves certain limitations and uncertainties. For example, Scope 3 emissions data is still not widely reported by issuers and is often based on estimates, which leads to a significant level of uncertainty. In addition, the same emissions can be accounted for several times by different issuers in the same value chain, leading to an overestimation of total emissions. For information purposes, the table below shows CNP Assurances’ upstream and downstream financed Scope 3 emissions related to listed equities, listed corporate bonds and infrastructure assets, based on available information supplied by data providers: Scope 3 emissions of the investment portfolio TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 61,549,282 TEQCO2 Total held directly 42,603,488 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 18,945,794 teqCO2 TOTAL UNIT-LINKED FUNDS 20,757,910 TEQCO2 Total held directly 1,619,918 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 19,137,991 teqCO2 ESRS Reference E1-6 - GHG intensity per net revenue 2024 E1-6_30 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 521 teqCO2/€m E1-6_31 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 521 teqCO2/€m GHG intensity per net revenue was calculated by dividing estimated total GHG emissions by consolidated revenue. Only Scope 1 and 2 data was included for investments."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 87 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Since 2022, the just transition has been addressed in the shareholder engagement policies applied by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries. CNP Assurances is a founding member of the first global investor engagement coalition on the just transition. The coalition's shareholder engagement policy aims to encourage companies to include in their strategy the social impacts of the transition to a low-carbon economy. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries took part in the work that led to the publication in 2024 of an initial awareness-raising grid for investors, and also supported collaborative engagement of the coalition members. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries include consideration of the social impacts of climate transition plans in their analysis of Say-on-Climate resolutions. 2.2.1.2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-2) CNP Assurances’ policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation are described in section 2.2.2.1 “Climate change mitigation transition plan (E1-1)”. 2.2.1.3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (E1-3) Actions taken and resources allocated to achieve climate change mitigation for internal operations Adapting premises to climate change For a number of years now, CNP Assurances has integrated climate change adaptation into its process of selecting office premises, choosing buildings that meet exacting environmental standards. • in 2022, CNP Assurances transferred its headquarters to Issy-les-Moulineaux, to a building that meets the latest environmental standards (HQE Exceptional, BREEAM Outstanding, and BEPOS positive energy certification); • towards the end of 2023, CVA moved into a new V4 LEED Platinum-certified headquarters building in Milan. The building has been completely renovated to high standards of energy performance, based on an integrated and systemic strategy; • in 2024, CNP UniCredit Vita carried out a maintenance and restructuring project to improve the energy efficiency of its two office buildings, obtaining LEED Gold certification in December; • CNP Luxembourg has launched a project to relocate in 2025 to a building that meets the latest ESG criteria. The move will radically reduce the company’s carbon footprint compared with the two old buildings that it currently leases; • towards the end of 2023, CNP Santander relocated to a building with a high energy performance; • in Brazil, Caixa Vida e Previdência improved its energy efficiency management in 2024 by adopting measures such as the use of exclusively-LED light bulbs, lighting automation systems with luminosity sensors, and efficient air conditioning equipment. Its buildings in São Paulo and Barueri are LEED® Gold and Platinum-certified, respectively, and are in the process of obtaining LEED Interior Design and Construction (ID+C) certification; • Youse operates from a building with two LEED certifications: Gold for maintenance and operation and Silver for construction; • CNP Seguradora’s Barueri offices are in a LEED Gold- certified building, while its Berrini office building has LEED Platinum certification and obtains all of its energy from the free energy market. Promoting energy sufficiency and digital technologies CNP Assurances has adopted an energy-efficiency policy that focuses on improving the operation of heating, air-conditioning and ventilation systems through expert management of programmable time settings. Since 2022, it has applied a policy of setting heating to a maximum of 19°C and switching off neon signs at night. The Group has joined the EcoWatt responsible energy consumption initiative and is committed to reducing its consumption in periods of peak energy demand. IT processing centres and workstations are two key features of the digital transformation, and it is vital that the Group remains vigilant about their energy consumption. A pilot project is also under way to cut down on the energy used for ICT and data infrastructure. Employee awareness-raising and training CNP Assurances has set up a ""Green Actions"" programme to raise employee awareness about the need to reduce its environmental footprint. A Group charter has been sent out to all employees, inviting them to respect ecological principles such as sorting waste, reducing digital pollution and being energy efficient. In 2021, sustainable finance training was offered to 2,487 employees, covering 75% of the workforce. In 2023, 86% of the Group's employees followed an e-learning course on the ecological crisis, developed in partnership with well-known specialist networks. ""Climate Fresk” workshops have also been organised to help give employees a better understanding of the causes and impacts of climate change. Investing activities Sector exclusion policy CNP Assurances excludes from their investments companies linked to climate change impacts, such as those in the conventional or non-conventional coal, oil and fossil gas sectors. These policies are set out in the Climate Transition Plan. Shareholder engagement policy At the general meetings of listed companies in the portfolio, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries defend the interests of their policyholders and put their ESG commitments into practice by making their support for Say-on-Climate resolutions dependent on strict and clearly-defined criteria. They also engage in dialogue with investee companies and asset managers, face-to-face or by letter, to encourage them to reduce their impact on climate change while protecting their employees from the effects of the transition."
"88 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information In 2024, CNP Assurances voted at 84 General Meetings of 82 companies in 11 countries. These companies account for 100% of CNP Assurances’ directly held equity portfolio. It voted on 1,717 resolutions, approving 74.6% and opposing 25.3% of them. The negative votes predominantly concerned excessive remuneration for certain senior executives. A breakdown by topic of the votes cast by CNP Assurances is available in the report on its shareholder engagement policy on the cnp.fr website. In 2024, CNP Assurances continued its bilateral dialogues (16 direct dialogues and two dialogues carried out at its request by Ostrum AM) on governance, climate and biodiversity challenges. Engagement is organised with companies in which CNP Assurances is a shareholder or bondholder, as well as with asset management companies. In 2024, 41% of GHG emissions from direct holdings (equities, corporate bonds and infrastructure) were covered by the shareholder engagement work carried out by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries with the management of the companies concerned (bilateral dialogue or letters requesting a halt to new fossil fuel exploration and production projects). ESG-based investment selection CNP Assurances believes that including ESG criteria in investment decision processes contributes to value creation and enhances the risk-return ratio over time. Since 2006, it has implemented a strategy of ESG integration across all asset classes. Details of how ESG criteria are taken into account for each asset class are set out in the transition plan. Green investments Massive investments are needed to limit global warming to 1.5°C. These investments contribute to the energy transition and also help CNP Assurances to manage its transition risk. CNP Assurances is committed to increasing its green investment portfolio – green bonds, forests, environment-labelled buildings, green infrastructure such as renewable energy projects and low- carbon transport and mobility projects – to €30 billion by the end of 2025, from €10.4 billion in 2018. As of end-2024, the Group's green investments totalled €29.4 billion. Investments in forests In the forests owned by CNP Assurances, the fight against climate change is based on the natural sequestration of CO2 by trees through photosynthesis. The carbon captured each year by the Group’s forestry assets is monitored by estimating the wood’s organic growth during the year and then converting this biomass growth into captured CO2. In 2024, the gross quantity of CO2 captured by CNP Assurances' forestry assets totalled 483,653 tonnes of CO2. 2.2.1.4 Energy consumption and mix (E1-5) ESRS Reference 2024 E1-5_02 Total fossil energy consumption 6,020 MWh E1-5_15 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 28% E1-5_03 Consumption from nuclear sources 131 MWh E1-5_04 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 1% E1-5_06 Fuel consumption for renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) (MWh) 12 MWh E1-5_07 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 14,956 MWh E1-5_08 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 283 MWh E1-5_05 Total renewable energy consumption 15,252 MWh E1-5_09 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 71% E1-5_01 Total energy consumption 21,404 MWh"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 89 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.5 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions (E1-6) ESRS Reference E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 2024 SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS(1) E1-6_07 Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 1,495 teqCO2 SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS(1) E1-6_09 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 936 teqCO2 E1-6_10 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 276 teqCO2 SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS E1-6_11 Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,873,933 teqCO2 Purchased goods and services 66,685 teqCO2 Capital goods 3,270 teqCO2 Fuel and energy-related activities (not included in Scope1 or Scope 2) 562 teqCO2 Waste generated in operations 21 teqCO2 Business travel 2,889 teqCO2 Employee commuting 3,292 teqCO2 Sub-total: emissions from internal operations(2) 76,720 teqCO2 Investments (Scope 1+2)(3) 18,797,214 teqCO2 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS Total location-based GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,876,365 teqCO2 Total market-based GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,875,704 teqCO2 Voluntary disclosure of the following primary data from the carbon footprint assessment of the internal operations of CNP Assurances: - 29,609 cu.m. of water was used - 187 tonnes of waste were generated (1) Excluding investment property. Included in Investments (Scope 1+2) in Scope 3 (2) The other Scope 3 categories are not relevant to the activities of CNP Assurances (3) Emissions from the investment portfolio (category 15 of Scope 3 in the GHG protocol) cover the following: - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to listed equities and bonds held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to infrastructure assets held directly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to property assets (excluding debt), held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - domestic emissions (Scope 1) related to sovereign bonds, held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; €331 billion worth of investments were assessed (representing 80% of the total investment portfolio) with data available for €254 billion of this amount (i.e., 60% of the total portfolio). The data was supplied by data providers or was freely available. The proportion of primary data, as defined in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772, could not be determined. The calculation methodologies used, based on the recommendations of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), are set out in the section on the climate methodology used in the climate transition plan."
"90 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Scope 1 and 2 emissions of the investment portfolio TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 13,995,852 TEQCO2 Total held directly 11,960,010 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 3,506,134 teqCO2 Sovereigns 8,453,877 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 2,035,842 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 1,229,768 teqCO2 Sovereigns 806,074 teqCO2 TOTAL UNIT-LINKED FUNDS 4,801,362 TEQCO2 Total held directly 229,064 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 172,354 teqCO2 Sovereigns 56,710 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 4,572,298 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 1,522,776 teqCO2 Sovereigns 3,049,522 teqCO2 TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED AND UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 18,797,214 TEQCO2 Estimating Scope 3 emissions related to the Group's investment portfolio (known as ""financed emissions"") involves certain limitations and uncertainties. For example, Scope 3 emissions data is still not widely reported by issuers and is often based on estimates, which leads to a significant level of uncertainty. In addition, the same emissions can be accounted for several times by different issuers in the same value chain, leading to an overestimation of total emissions. For information purposes, the table below shows CNP Assurances’ upstream and downstream financed Scope 3 emissions related to listed equities, listed corporate bonds and infrastructure assets, based on available information supplied by data providers: Scope 3 emissions of the investment portfolio TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 61,549,282 TEQCO2 Total held directly 42,603,488 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 18,945,794 teqCO2 TOTAL UNIT-LINKED FUNDS 20,757,910 TEQCO2 Total held directly 1,619,918 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 19,137,991 teqCO2 ESRS Reference E1-6 - GHG intensity per net revenue 2024 E1-6_30 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 521 teqCO2/€m E1-6_31 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 521 teqCO2/€m GHG intensity per net revenue was calculated by dividing estimated total GHG emissions by consolidated revenue. Only Scope 1 and 2 data was included for investments."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 91 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.6 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7) In addition to its decarbonisation initiatives, CNP Assurances intends to contribute to climate change mitigation by financing projects beyond its value chain. This voluntary contribution is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Drawing inspiration from its parent company, La Banque Postale, in 2022 CNP Assurances set up its first carbon and biodiversity fund, which is based on an internal mechanism for monetising the Group’s carbon footprint (called an “internal carbon price”). Under this mechanism, CNP Assurances devotes an annual sum equal to its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions multiplied by the internal carbon price to the following projects: • internal projects aimed at more effectively measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term; • external carbon credit purchasing projects; • internal or external projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity. This mechanism covers the entire CNP Assurances Group. The emissions taken into account are direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2) and indirect emissions linked to business travel and commuting (Scope 3). In order to meet the Group’s carbon reduction targets in line with its corporate mission, the internal carbon price was increased as from 1 January 2023 based on the internal price used by La Banque Postale. Set at €60/teqCO2 in 2023 versus €10.5/teqCO2 in 2022, this new internal price is more closely correlated with the market price. Projects eligible for the carbon and biodiversity fund and focused on measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term cover emissions from three main sources: running of buildings, IT systems, and employee commuting/business travel. Projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity are also eligible. In 2024, CNP Assurances' carbon and biodiversity fund financed: 1. the following internal projects: • reducing energy consumption at the data centre operated by CNP Assurances by shutting down 183 servers and replacing them with a cloud-based solution. Currently, all of the servers have to be running, even for a single user. The transfer to a cloud-based solution will have two advantages: the possibility of adapting consumption to usage and the fact that the cloud provider's data centre is more energy-efficient than the Group's data centre; • measuring the carbon footprint of external and internal web applications, which will make it possible to improve the measurement of CO2 emissions linked to CNP Assurances' use of digital technologies; • placing stickers on the glass façade of the Angers office building to prevent bird collisions; • planting greenery along the southern walkway of the Angers office building; • installing a nesting box for the kestrel that has taken up residence at CNP Assurances’ CTI in the Angers region; • the Serragem project, which began in 2007 and complies with the international Verified Carbon Standard. In 2024, CNP Assurances voluntarily contributed 9,469 teqCO2 to mitigate the effects of climate change. Serragem aims to combat deforestation by using biomass waste to replace firewood to fuel two ceramic factories in the city of São Miguel do Guamá, in the Brazilian state of Pará. Before the project began, the two factories together consumed 45,000 tonnes of Amazon forest firewood each year to fuel their kilns. Today, they use biomass in the form of acai seeds and sawdust, which used to be major sources of waste in the region. In addition to reducing GHG emissions and easing pressure on the Amazon forest, the project supports the local economy by creating jobs and new markets for local biomass suppliers. The project also creates environmental activities to reduce the impact of the ceramics industry and supports vulnerable groups through several social initiatives. The purchase of carbon credits is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. 2. the following external projects • the Nature Impact fund, an initiative launched by WWF France aimed at financing projects designed to preserve, restore and sustainably manage forests with high biodiversity value in mainland France. The underlying purpose of this fund is to protect 15,000 hectares of woodland in France – the equivalent of a quarter of the woodland that has been placed under “strong protection” by France’s National Forestry Office – while enabling the capture of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent over a period of 30 years. This fund is also being financed by La Banque Postale's carbon and biodiversity fund. CNP Assurances does not use the Nature Impact Fund to offset any of its GHG emissions, • in Brazil, in 2024, Caixa Vida e Previdência did not renew the voluntary financing of two projects initiated in 2023, but plans to do so again in 2025. The first of these projects – which is the outcome of a partnership between the Association of Extractive Reserve Residents (ASMOREX) and Biofílica Ambipar – is located in the Rio Preto-Jacundá extractive reserve and is aimed at reducing emissions by preserving forests, and promoting community development, education and healthcare. The second project, located in the town of Parnaíba, contributes to the production of wind power, • also in Brazil, CNP Seguranda set up a project called Conexão Amazônia in partnership with the Institute for the Conservation and Sustainable Development of the Amazon (Idesam), investing R$2.5 million. Through this investment, CNP Seguradora is supporting local non- profits to promote entrepreneurship and create income streams from socio-environmentally responsible value chains such as vegetable oil production, handicrafts and furniture-making. The project helps to support around 500 families facing social problems, improving their quality of life while promoting environmental conservation. CNP Seguradora's support will also enable more than 5,000 trees to be planted to restore deforested areas in the region. The partnership with Idesam was signed in March 2024, during the Brazil-France Economic Forum on The Transition to the Green Economy."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 89 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.5 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions (E1-6) ESRS Reference E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 2024 SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS(1) E1-6_07 Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 1,495 teqCO2 SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS(1) E1-6_09 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 936 teqCO2 E1-6_10 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 276 teqCO2 SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS E1-6_11 Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,873,933 teqCO2 Purchased goods and services 66,685 teqCO2 Capital goods 3,270 teqCO2 Fuel and energy-related activities (not included in Scope1 or Scope 2) 562 teqCO2 Waste generated in operations 21 teqCO2 Business travel 2,889 teqCO2 Employee commuting 3,292 teqCO2 Sub-total: emissions from internal operations(2) 76,720 teqCO2 Investments (Scope 1+2)(3) 18,797,214 teqCO2 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS Total location-based GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,876,365 teqCO2 Total market-based GHG emissions (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 18,875,704 teqCO2 Voluntary disclosure of the following primary data from the carbon footprint assessment of the internal operations of CNP Assurances: - 29,609 cu.m. of water was used - 187 tonnes of waste were generated (1) Excluding investment property. Included in Investments (Scope 1+2) in Scope 3 (2) The other Scope 3 categories are not relevant to the activities of CNP Assurances (3) Emissions from the investment portfolio (category 15 of Scope 3 in the GHG protocol) cover the following: - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to listed equities and bonds held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to infrastructure assets held directly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to property assets (excluding debt), held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; - domestic emissions (Scope 1) related to sovereign bonds, held directly or indirectly, invested in non-unit-linked and unit-linked funds and own funds; €331 billion worth of investments were assessed (representing 80% of the total investment portfolio) with data available for €254 billion of this amount (i.e., 60% of the total portfolio). The data was supplied by data providers or was freely available. The proportion of primary data, as defined in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772, could not be determined. The calculation methodologies used, based on the recommendations of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), are set out in the section on the climate methodology used in the climate transition plan."
"90 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Scope 1 and 2 emissions of the investment portfolio TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 13,995,852 TEQCO2 Total held directly 11,960,010 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 3,506,134 teqCO2 Sovereigns 8,453,877 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 2,035,842 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 1,229,768 teqCO2 Sovereigns 806,074 teqCO2 TOTAL UNIT-LINKED FUNDS 4,801,362 TEQCO2 Total held directly 229,064 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 172,354 teqCO2 Sovereigns 56,710 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 4,572,298 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 1,522,776 teqCO2 Sovereigns 3,049,522 teqCO2 TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED AND UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 18,797,214 TEQCO2 Estimating Scope 3 emissions related to the Group's investment portfolio (known as ""financed emissions"") involves certain limitations and uncertainties. For example, Scope 3 emissions data is still not widely reported by issuers and is often based on estimates, which leads to a significant level of uncertainty. In addition, the same emissions can be accounted for several times by different issuers in the same value chain, leading to an overestimation of total emissions. For information purposes, the table below shows CNP Assurances’ upstream and downstream financed Scope 3 emissions related to listed equities, listed corporate bonds and infrastructure assets, based on available information supplied by data providers: Scope 3 emissions of the investment portfolio TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 61,549,282 TEQCO2 Total held directly 42,603,488 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 18,945,794 teqCO2 TOTAL UNIT-LINKED FUNDS 20,757,910 TEQCO2 Total held directly 1,619,918 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 19,137,991 teqCO2 ESRS Reference E1-6 - GHG intensity per net revenue 2024 E1-6_30 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 521 teqCO2/€m E1-6_31 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 521 teqCO2/€m GHG intensity per net revenue was calculated by dividing estimated total GHG emissions by consolidated revenue. Only Scope 1 and 2 data was included for investments."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 91 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.6 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7) In addition to its decarbonisation initiatives, CNP Assurances intends to contribute to climate change mitigation by financing projects beyond its value chain. This voluntary contribution is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Drawing inspiration from its parent company, La Banque Postale, in 2022 CNP Assurances set up its first carbon and biodiversity fund, which is based on an internal mechanism for monetising the Group’s carbon footprint (called an “internal carbon price”). Under this mechanism, CNP Assurances devotes an annual sum equal to its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions multiplied by the internal carbon price to the following projects: • internal projects aimed at more effectively measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term; • external carbon credit purchasing projects; • internal or external projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity. This mechanism covers the entire CNP Assurances Group. The emissions taken into account are direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2) and indirect emissions linked to business travel and commuting (Scope 3). In order to meet the Group’s carbon reduction targets in line with its corporate mission, the internal carbon price was increased as from 1 January 2023 based on the internal price used by La Banque Postale. Set at €60/teqCO2 in 2023 versus €10.5/teqCO2 in 2022, this new internal price is more closely correlated with the market price. Projects eligible for the carbon and biodiversity fund and focused on measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term cover emissions from three main sources: running of buildings, IT systems, and employee commuting/business travel. Projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity are also eligible. In 2024, CNP Assurances' carbon and biodiversity fund financed: 1. the following internal projects: • reducing energy consumption at the data centre operated by CNP Assurances by shutting down 183 servers and replacing them with a cloud-based solution. Currently, all of the servers have to be running, even for a single user. The transfer to a cloud-based solution will have two advantages: the possibility of adapting consumption to usage and the fact that the cloud provider's data centre is more energy-efficient than the Group's data centre; • measuring the carbon footprint of external and internal web applications, which will make it possible to improve the measurement of CO2 emissions linked to CNP Assurances' use of digital technologies; • placing stickers on the glass façade of the Angers office building to prevent bird collisions; • planting greenery along the southern walkway of the Angers office building; • installing a nesting box for the kestrel that has taken up residence at CNP Assurances’ CTI in the Angers region; • the Serragem project, which began in 2007 and complies with the international Verified Carbon Standard. In 2024, CNP Assurances voluntarily contributed 9,469 teqCO2 to mitigate the effects of climate change. Serragem aims to combat deforestation by using biomass waste to replace firewood to fuel two ceramic factories in the city of São Miguel do Guamá, in the Brazilian state of Pará. Before the project began, the two factories together consumed 45,000 tonnes of Amazon forest firewood each year to fuel their kilns. Today, they use biomass in the form of acai seeds and sawdust, which used to be major sources of waste in the region. In addition to reducing GHG emissions and easing pressure on the Amazon forest, the project supports the local economy by creating jobs and new markets for local biomass suppliers. The project also creates environmental activities to reduce the impact of the ceramics industry and supports vulnerable groups through several social initiatives. The purchase of carbon credits is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. 2. the following external projects • the Nature Impact fund, an initiative launched by WWF France aimed at financing projects designed to preserve, restore and sustainably manage forests with high biodiversity value in mainland France. The underlying purpose of this fund is to protect 15,000 hectares of woodland in France – the equivalent of a quarter of the woodland that has been placed under “strong protection” by France’s National Forestry Office – while enabling the capture of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent over a period of 30 years. This fund is also being financed by La Banque Postale's carbon and biodiversity fund. CNP Assurances does not use the Nature Impact Fund to offset any of its GHG emissions, • in Brazil, in 2024, Caixa Vida e Previdência did not renew the voluntary financing of two projects initiated in 2023, but plans to do so again in 2025. The first of these projects – which is the outcome of a partnership between the Association of Extractive Reserve Residents (ASMOREX) and Biofílica Ambipar – is located in the Rio Preto-Jacundá extractive reserve and is aimed at reducing emissions by preserving forests, and promoting community development, education and healthcare. The second project, located in the town of Parnaíba, contributes to the production of wind power, • also in Brazil, CNP Seguranda set up a project called Conexão Amazônia in partnership with the Institute for the Conservation and Sustainable Development of the Amazon (Idesam), investing R$2.5 million. Through this investment, CNP Seguradora is supporting local non- profits to promote entrepreneurship and create income streams from socio-environmentally responsible value chains such as vegetable oil production, handicrafts and furniture-making. The project helps to support around 500 families facing social problems, improving their quality of life while promoting environmental conservation. CNP Seguradora's support will also enable more than 5,000 trees to be planted to restore deforested areas in the region. The partnership with Idesam was signed in March 2024, during the Brazil-France Economic Forum on The Transition to the Green Economy."
"92 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information ESRS Reference E1-7 - GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 2024 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon reduction projects 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_13 Share from reduction projects 100% Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon capture projects 0 teqCO2 E1-7_14 Share from removal projects 0% E1-7_10 Total carbon credits outside the undertaking's value chain that were verified and cancelled in the reporting period 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_04 Total GHG removals and storage in the upstream and downstream value chain 483,653 teqCO2 The 9,469 teqCO2 in carbon credits cancelled in 2024 corresponds to the Serragem project. Caixa Vida e Previdência voluntarily financed 4,150 teqCO2 under this project in 2023. this financing was not renewed in 2024. 2.2.1.7 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) This disclosure requirement is described in section 2.2.1.6 “GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7)”. 2.2.2 Disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards (E2 to E5) CNP Assurances considers that the sustainability matters related to pollution, water and marine resources, biodiversity, ecosystems and the circular economy are material for its investment activities. In particular, CNP Assurances considers that its investments could have a negative impact that could result in: • damage to ecosystems and public health [IRO 1]; • depletion of resources [IRO 1]; • biodiversity loss [IRO 1]. Reducing these negative impacts requires a responsible investment strategy. The general responsible investing approach applied by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries(1) is tailored to the specific nature of each asset class. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ approach is based on the principles of the Responsible Investment Charter and guided by the Global Compact principles, including protecting the environment. This approach contributes to seven United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Policies and actions relating to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) are based on the pillars of CNP Assurances’ responsible investment strategy: • exclusion policy (1); • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets (2); • shareholder engagement policy (3). The responsible investment strategy is defined as part of the investment strategy approved by Executive Management and the Board of Directors. A dedicated responsible investment governance structure has been set up to enable the Board of Directors, Executive Management, the relevant committees and the investment teams to integrate ESG issues into their decision-making and operational processes. The governance framework in place to implement and track these policies is described in section 2.1.2.1 entitled “Role of administrative, management and supervisory bodies (GOV-1)”. The stakeholders consulted are detailed in section 2.1.3.2 “Interests and views of stakeholders (SBM‐2)”. The resources allocated to sustainable finance within CNP Assurances are detailed in section 2.2.1.1 “Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1).” 2.2.2.1 Exclusion policy CNP Assurances excludes certain countries and companies from their investments on the basis of ESG (environmental, social and governance) criteria. In particular, some companies are excluded because they are involved in activities that may have a negative impact on the environment. The specific exclusion criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2‐2), water and marine resources (E3-2), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-3) and resource use and circular economy (E5‐2) – are described in the sections below about the actions and resources related to each matter. (1) Investments by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries account for almost 80% of CNP Assurances' total investments"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 93 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.2.2 Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets ESG filters for listed equities and bonds For directly-held equities and corporate bonds, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries use a best-in- class approach for their investment selection, applying the ESG filters used for the GREaT(1) non-financial analysis methodology. Corporate issuers’ non-financial ratings are calculated using this method, which makes it possible to carry out pragmatic and differentiating analyses of companies with regard to sustainable development challenges, and taking into account negative impacts. The “GREaT” methodology measures commitment and responsibility across four pillars, including sustainable management of environmental and human resources. This pillar assesses the sustainable management of human and natural resources, minimises the company’s negative impact on its ecosystem, and promotes companies that nurture their human capital. The specific criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) – are described in their corresponding sections. The Green Works property management charter Real estate has a significant impact on the environment, both in the construction and operating phases. The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries in order to limit pollution, reduce water consumption, track the use of resources and promote the circular economy. The ESG criteria are defined in operational terms in the property management mandate. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ real estate asset management companies undertake to carry out works in accordance with the rules of this charter, particularly in relation to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5). The specific criteria for each matter are described in their corresponding sections. CNP Assurances’ real estate asset management companies are responsible for the risks associated with this charter. CNP Assurances expects them to manage these risks in a balanced and appropriate manner on a case-by-case basis, depending on the materiality of the matter in question. The policy of selecting investments on the basis of ESG criteria is also used for other asset classes. This policy is detailed in the Climate Transition Plan. 2.2.2.3 Shareholder engagement and voting policy At the general meetings of listed companies in the portfolio, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries defend the interests of their policyholders and put their ESG commitments into practice. They also engage in dialogue with investee companies and asset managers, face-to-face or by letter, to encourage them to reduce their negative impacts. CNP Assurances applies its voting policy pragmatically, in some cases taking into account the specific characteristics of each company, such as business sector, national regulations, main ESG risks, size, shareholder structure, and economic and financial circumstances. CNP Assurances does not have specific targets for ESRS E2, E3 (including water and sustainable oceans and seas) and E5. The specific targets related to ESRS E4 are described in the ESRS E4 section on biodiversity and ecosystems. As permitted under the transitional provisions in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 of 31 July 2023, CNP Assurances has not estimated the anticipated financial effects of material risks and opportunities in relation to ESRS E2 to E5 (1) Proprietary methodology of La Banque Postal Asset Management"
"90 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Scope 1 and 2 emissions of the investment portfolio TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 13,995,852 TEQCO2 Total held directly 11,960,010 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 3,506,134 teqCO2 Sovereigns 8,453,877 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 2,035,842 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 1,229,768 teqCO2 Sovereigns 806,074 teqCO2 TOTAL UNIT-LINKED FUNDS 4,801,362 TEQCO2 Total held directly 229,064 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 172,354 teqCO2 Sovereigns 56,710 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 4,572,298 teqCO2 Listed equities, listed corporate bonds, infrastructure assets and property 1,522,776 teqCO2 Sovereigns 3,049,522 teqCO2 TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED AND UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 18,797,214 TEQCO2 Estimating Scope 3 emissions related to the Group's investment portfolio (known as ""financed emissions"") involves certain limitations and uncertainties. For example, Scope 3 emissions data is still not widely reported by issuers and is often based on estimates, which leads to a significant level of uncertainty. In addition, the same emissions can be accounted for several times by different issuers in the same value chain, leading to an overestimation of total emissions. For information purposes, the table below shows CNP Assurances’ upstream and downstream financed Scope 3 emissions related to listed equities, listed corporate bonds and infrastructure assets, based on available information supplied by data providers: Scope 3 emissions of the investment portfolio TOTAL NON-UNIT-LINKED FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS 61,549,282 TEQCO2 Total held directly 42,603,488 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 18,945,794 teqCO2 TOTAL UNIT-LINKED FUNDS 20,757,910 TEQCO2 Total held directly 1,619,918 teqCO2 Total held indirectly 19,137,991 teqCO2 ESRS Reference E1-6 - GHG intensity per net revenue 2024 E1-6_30 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 521 teqCO2/€m E1-6_31 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (incl. Scope 1 and 2 from Investments) 521 teqCO2/€m GHG intensity per net revenue was calculated by dividing estimated total GHG emissions by consolidated revenue. Only Scope 1 and 2 data was included for investments."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 91 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.6 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7) In addition to its decarbonisation initiatives, CNP Assurances intends to contribute to climate change mitigation by financing projects beyond its value chain. This voluntary contribution is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Drawing inspiration from its parent company, La Banque Postale, in 2022 CNP Assurances set up its first carbon and biodiversity fund, which is based on an internal mechanism for monetising the Group’s carbon footprint (called an “internal carbon price”). Under this mechanism, CNP Assurances devotes an annual sum equal to its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions multiplied by the internal carbon price to the following projects: • internal projects aimed at more effectively measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term; • external carbon credit purchasing projects; • internal or external projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity. This mechanism covers the entire CNP Assurances Group. The emissions taken into account are direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2) and indirect emissions linked to business travel and commuting (Scope 3). In order to meet the Group’s carbon reduction targets in line with its corporate mission, the internal carbon price was increased as from 1 January 2023 based on the internal price used by La Banque Postale. Set at €60/teqCO2 in 2023 versus €10.5/teqCO2 in 2022, this new internal price is more closely correlated with the market price. Projects eligible for the carbon and biodiversity fund and focused on measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term cover emissions from three main sources: running of buildings, IT systems, and employee commuting/business travel. Projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity are also eligible. In 2024, CNP Assurances' carbon and biodiversity fund financed: 1. the following internal projects: • reducing energy consumption at the data centre operated by CNP Assurances by shutting down 183 servers and replacing them with a cloud-based solution. Currently, all of the servers have to be running, even for a single user. The transfer to a cloud-based solution will have two advantages: the possibility of adapting consumption to usage and the fact that the cloud provider's data centre is more energy-efficient than the Group's data centre; • measuring the carbon footprint of external and internal web applications, which will make it possible to improve the measurement of CO2 emissions linked to CNP Assurances' use of digital technologies; • placing stickers on the glass façade of the Angers office building to prevent bird collisions; • planting greenery along the southern walkway of the Angers office building; • installing a nesting box for the kestrel that has taken up residence at CNP Assurances’ CTI in the Angers region; • the Serragem project, which began in 2007 and complies with the international Verified Carbon Standard. In 2024, CNP Assurances voluntarily contributed 9,469 teqCO2 to mitigate the effects of climate change. Serragem aims to combat deforestation by using biomass waste to replace firewood to fuel two ceramic factories in the city of São Miguel do Guamá, in the Brazilian state of Pará. Before the project began, the two factories together consumed 45,000 tonnes of Amazon forest firewood each year to fuel their kilns. Today, they use biomass in the form of acai seeds and sawdust, which used to be major sources of waste in the region. In addition to reducing GHG emissions and easing pressure on the Amazon forest, the project supports the local economy by creating jobs and new markets for local biomass suppliers. The project also creates environmental activities to reduce the impact of the ceramics industry and supports vulnerable groups through several social initiatives. The purchase of carbon credits is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. 2. the following external projects • the Nature Impact fund, an initiative launched by WWF France aimed at financing projects designed to preserve, restore and sustainably manage forests with high biodiversity value in mainland France. The underlying purpose of this fund is to protect 15,000 hectares of woodland in France – the equivalent of a quarter of the woodland that has been placed under “strong protection” by France’s National Forestry Office – while enabling the capture of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent over a period of 30 years. This fund is also being financed by La Banque Postale's carbon and biodiversity fund. CNP Assurances does not use the Nature Impact Fund to offset any of its GHG emissions, • in Brazil, in 2024, Caixa Vida e Previdência did not renew the voluntary financing of two projects initiated in 2023, but plans to do so again in 2025. The first of these projects – which is the outcome of a partnership between the Association of Extractive Reserve Residents (ASMOREX) and Biofílica Ambipar – is located in the Rio Preto-Jacundá extractive reserve and is aimed at reducing emissions by preserving forests, and promoting community development, education and healthcare. The second project, located in the town of Parnaíba, contributes to the production of wind power, • also in Brazil, CNP Seguranda set up a project called Conexão Amazônia in partnership with the Institute for the Conservation and Sustainable Development of the Amazon (Idesam), investing R$2.5 million. Through this investment, CNP Seguradora is supporting local non- profits to promote entrepreneurship and create income streams from socio-environmentally responsible value chains such as vegetable oil production, handicrafts and furniture-making. The project helps to support around 500 families facing social problems, improving their quality of life while promoting environmental conservation. CNP Seguradora's support will also enable more than 5,000 trees to be planted to restore deforested areas in the region. The partnership with Idesam was signed in March 2024, during the Brazil-France Economic Forum on The Transition to the Green Economy."
"92 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information ESRS Reference E1-7 - GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 2024 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon reduction projects 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_13 Share from reduction projects 100% Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon capture projects 0 teqCO2 E1-7_14 Share from removal projects 0% E1-7_10 Total carbon credits outside the undertaking's value chain that were verified and cancelled in the reporting period 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_04 Total GHG removals and storage in the upstream and downstream value chain 483,653 teqCO2 The 9,469 teqCO2 in carbon credits cancelled in 2024 corresponds to the Serragem project. Caixa Vida e Previdência voluntarily financed 4,150 teqCO2 under this project in 2023. this financing was not renewed in 2024. 2.2.1.7 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) This disclosure requirement is described in section 2.2.1.6 “GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7)”. 2.2.2 Disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards (E2 to E5) CNP Assurances considers that the sustainability matters related to pollution, water and marine resources, biodiversity, ecosystems and the circular economy are material for its investment activities. In particular, CNP Assurances considers that its investments could have a negative impact that could result in: • damage to ecosystems and public health [IRO 1]; • depletion of resources [IRO 1]; • biodiversity loss [IRO 1]. Reducing these negative impacts requires a responsible investment strategy. The general responsible investing approach applied by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries(1) is tailored to the specific nature of each asset class. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ approach is based on the principles of the Responsible Investment Charter and guided by the Global Compact principles, including protecting the environment. This approach contributes to seven United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Policies and actions relating to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) are based on the pillars of CNP Assurances’ responsible investment strategy: • exclusion policy (1); • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets (2); • shareholder engagement policy (3). The responsible investment strategy is defined as part of the investment strategy approved by Executive Management and the Board of Directors. A dedicated responsible investment governance structure has been set up to enable the Board of Directors, Executive Management, the relevant committees and the investment teams to integrate ESG issues into their decision-making and operational processes. The governance framework in place to implement and track these policies is described in section 2.1.2.1 entitled “Role of administrative, management and supervisory bodies (GOV-1)”. The stakeholders consulted are detailed in section 2.1.3.2 “Interests and views of stakeholders (SBM‐2)”. The resources allocated to sustainable finance within CNP Assurances are detailed in section 2.2.1.1 “Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1).” 2.2.2.1 Exclusion policy CNP Assurances excludes certain countries and companies from their investments on the basis of ESG (environmental, social and governance) criteria. In particular, some companies are excluded because they are involved in activities that may have a negative impact on the environment. The specific exclusion criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2‐2), water and marine resources (E3-2), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-3) and resource use and circular economy (E5‐2) – are described in the sections below about the actions and resources related to each matter. (1) Investments by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries account for almost 80% of CNP Assurances' total investments"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 93 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.2.2 Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets ESG filters for listed equities and bonds For directly-held equities and corporate bonds, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries use a best-in- class approach for their investment selection, applying the ESG filters used for the GREaT(1) non-financial analysis methodology. Corporate issuers’ non-financial ratings are calculated using this method, which makes it possible to carry out pragmatic and differentiating analyses of companies with regard to sustainable development challenges, and taking into account negative impacts. The “GREaT” methodology measures commitment and responsibility across four pillars, including sustainable management of environmental and human resources. This pillar assesses the sustainable management of human and natural resources, minimises the company’s negative impact on its ecosystem, and promotes companies that nurture their human capital. The specific criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) – are described in their corresponding sections. The Green Works property management charter Real estate has a significant impact on the environment, both in the construction and operating phases. The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries in order to limit pollution, reduce water consumption, track the use of resources and promote the circular economy. The ESG criteria are defined in operational terms in the property management mandate. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ real estate asset management companies undertake to carry out works in accordance with the rules of this charter, particularly in relation to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5). The specific criteria for each matter are described in their corresponding sections. CNP Assurances’ real estate asset management companies are responsible for the risks associated with this charter. CNP Assurances expects them to manage these risks in a balanced and appropriate manner on a case-by-case basis, depending on the materiality of the matter in question. The policy of selecting investments on the basis of ESG criteria is also used for other asset classes. This policy is detailed in the Climate Transition Plan. 2.2.2.3 Shareholder engagement and voting policy At the general meetings of listed companies in the portfolio, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries defend the interests of their policyholders and put their ESG commitments into practice. They also engage in dialogue with investee companies and asset managers, face-to-face or by letter, to encourage them to reduce their negative impacts. CNP Assurances applies its voting policy pragmatically, in some cases taking into account the specific characteristics of each company, such as business sector, national regulations, main ESG risks, size, shareholder structure, and economic and financial circumstances. CNP Assurances does not have specific targets for ESRS E2, E3 (including water and sustainable oceans and seas) and E5. The specific targets related to ESRS E4 are described in the ESRS E4 section on biodiversity and ecosystems. As permitted under the transitional provisions in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 of 31 July 2023, CNP Assurances has not estimated the anticipated financial effects of material risks and opportunities in relation to ESRS E2 to E5 (1) Proprietary methodology of La Banque Postal Asset Management"
"94 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3 Pollution (ESRS E2) 2.2.3.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Pollution generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which could cause damage to ecosystems and to people's health • Exclusion policy Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • Shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”. 2.2.3.2 Definition The assets or companies that CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries invest in may generate various forms of pollution: • ""Pollution of air"" refers to the undertaking's emissions into air (both indoor and outdoor), and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of water"" refers to the undertaking's emissions to water, and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of soil "" refers to the undertaking's emissions into soil and the prevention and reduction of such emissions; • “Substances of concern” covers the undertaking’s production, use, distribution and/or commercialisation of substances of concern, including substances of very high concern. 2.2.3.3 Policies related to pollution (E2-1) ESG policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries implement a uniform approach to responsible investment, detailed in the disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards E2 to E5. Exclusion policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks To reduce the impact of its investments on the environment, CNP Assurances chose to reduce its exposure to unconventional fossil fuels, including tar sands, shale oil and gas, and Arctic oil and gas as from 2021. The use of these resources has a negative impact on biodiversity and the climate and causes air, water and soil pollution. CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies in the oil and gas sector (prospecting, drilling, extraction, transformation, refining) deriving more than 10% of their revenue from non- conventional fossil fuels from new investments. In addition, CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies that derive more than 20% of their revenue from the manufacture or sale of pesticides (herbicides, fungicides and insecticides)."
"108 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Lastly, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries are ""participating in the biodiversity initiative” launched in spring 2024 by 11 institutional investors. The purpose of the initiative is to encourage the development of effective methodologies to take biodiversity into account in financial management practices. The aim is to contribute to meeting international objectives for the protection and restoration of biodiversity and to help all institutional investors fulfil their investment objectives in favour of nature and ecosystems. This will be achieved through new investment portfolio monitoring indicators and through the financing of companies that are contributing to the emergence of effective biodiversity solutions or transitioning towards a sustainable business model from a biodiversity standpoint. The initiative is also supported by Association Française de Gestion d’Actifs, Institut de la Finance Durable and France Assureurs. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries have chosen to invest in the unlisted fund, which will be deployed in 2025. Monitoring and reporting Various monitoring and reporting systems have been set up covering the application of shareholder engagement and exclusion policies and the selection of investments on the basis of ESG criteria. The companies that manage the portfolios of equities and bonds, the property portfolios and the forestry assets on behalf of CNP Assurances, prepare regular reports on their management of these assets for submission to CNP Assurances. For example, Ostrum AM presents its consolidated ESG rating to CNP Assurances at the quarterly meetings of the SRI Committee. CNP Assurances ensures that the ESG approach is properly applied in the management of buildings and works, through six- monthly reviews of renovation, certification and labelling activities. The sustainable forest management charter included in the management agreement between CNP Assurances and Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts provides for the annual reporting of qualitative and quantitative indicators, including updates on progress towards the objectives set for the protection of biodiversity, water, soil and people. 2.2.5.4 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4‐3) Actions and resources relating to sustainable finance are detailed in section 2.2.1.3 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (E1-3)”. CNP Assurances focuses on initiatives aimed at reducing the environmental footprint and preserving biodiversity. However it does not yet invest in nature-based solutions (NbS), which, as defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), are actions to address societal challenges through the protection, sustainable management and restoration of ecosystems, benefiting both human well- being and biodiversity. In practical terms, this can correspond to actions such as restoring forests, mangroves and coastal ecosystems to mitigate the effects of global warming. Similarly, it has not yet integrated local and indigenous knowledge into its biodiversity-related actions, other than for directly managed real estate and forestry assets, for which it works with local organisations. 2.2.5.5 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4‐4) Following the impact and dependency measurements carried out since 2022, a review will be undertaken to gradually establish quantified impact reduction targets. However, this will require improvements in both the accuracy of the measurements taken and the methodologies used for setting targets, as well as access to high-quality data. In 2021, CNP Assurances signed the Finance for Biodiversity Pledge – a commitment that requires it to: • cooperate and share knowledge about biodiversity-related measurement and target-setting methodologies; • integrate biodiversity in the responsible investment policy and shareholder engagement policy; • assess the positive and negative impacts of investments on biodiversity; • publish science-based targets to increase positive and reduce negative impacts on biodiversity; • report annually on the investment portfolios’ performance in relation to these objectives."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 109 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information In 2024, the level achieved for each of these commitments was as follows: Commitments Contributions Achievement rate at end-2024 Cooperate on impact assessment methodologies Participation in the Finance for Tomorrow working group on natural capital, the CDC Biodiversité B4B+ Finance Club and the drafting of France Assureurs’ guide on insurance and biodiversity In progress Incorporate biodiversity in ESG policy Follow-up of the inclusion in Ostrum AM’s discretionary asset management contract of the biodiversity aspects of ESG policy applied to directly-held listed assets In progress Support for the LBPAM and Tocqueville biodiversity fund Completed (€120 million invested) Inclusion of biodiversity in CNP Assurances’ corporate mission BRL Include biodiversity in the topics covered by shareholder dialogue Annual dialogue with five companies to encourage them to adopt a strategy aligned with international biodiversity agreements by the end of 2024 Completed Membership of the Nature Action 100 investor coalition Completed Assess the positive and negative biodiversity-related impacts of investing activities and identify the key drivers of biodiversity loss Biodiversity footprint of all securities measured as of end-2023 Completed Biodiversity of all forestry assets will be measured as of end-2025 92% 3% of woodland to be set aside for areas of older growth and natural growth by end-2025 2.69% FSC certification of forestry assets to be obtained by 2030 New Involvement of the Group Risk Department in nature-related issues, through the production of a comprehensive nature/biodiversity risk map by the end of 2025 New Mapping of investments in equities and bonds in biodiversity-sensitive areas and areas of water stress to be completed by 2027 New Publish science-based targets that have a material impact on biodiversity Biodiversity protection targets published in September 2021 Completed New exclusion criteria in the fight against climate change published in February 2022, in line with scientific scenarios for limiting global warming to +1.5°C Completed New exclusion criteria related to deforestation and pesticides published in June 2024 Completed Oversight and approval of the Biodiversity Transition Plan by the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances by end-2024 Completed 2.2.5.6 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change (E4-5) The impact metrics used are the static and dynamic footprints obtained using the BIA-GBSTM methodology."
"110 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.6 Resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5) 2.2.6.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investing activities Consumption of resources or production of waste generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which could lead to the depletion of resources or cause damage to ecosystems ESG filters established in the due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries. Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”. 2.2.6.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy (E5‐1) ESG policy to reduce resource and circular economy-related impacts and risks CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries implement a uniform approach to responsible investment, detailed in the section on disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards E2 to E5. 2.2.6.3 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy (E5-2) Taking resources and the circular economy into account in ESG criteria for directly held listed equities and corporate bonds The “Sustainable management of resources” pillar of the GREaT rating, used to manage the portfolios of directly-held equities and corporate bonds on behalf of CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, ensures that the principles of the circular economy are taken into account in the design, production and use of products/services in order to reduce pollution and encourage recycling. This criterion particularly includes elements relating to waste management and packaging. Taking resources and the circular economy into account in real estate The Green Works Charter requires management companies of the properties held directly by CNP Assurances and its French subsidiaries to carry out work in accordance with the principles of this charter, particularly in terms of the circular economy: • materials and technologies used: • use materials or technologies with a limited impact on the environment, • promote the use of recycled or recyclable materials, • conduct a critical analysis prior to the use of new processes or products that are theoretically more environmentally friendly; • works phase: • draft an organisational plan of the site, • manage and recycle waste, • limit consumption of resources, • Perform eco-monitoring of the site; • management of activity waste: • reduce waste at source, • implement waste sorting, • treat and reuse waste and track its collection, • assess the amount of waste produced; • circular economy: • assess the possibility of using deconstruction processes to recover and reuse materials wherever possible for each operation, • promote the use of recycled materials from wherever possible. The management companies are responsible for the risks associated with this charter. CNP Assurances and its French subsidiaries expect them to manage these risks in an appropriate and balanced manner on a case-by-case basis depending on the materiality of the challenge in question."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 111 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.7 Information about the Taxonomy Regulation The undertaking shall include in its sustainability statement the disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and the Council and to the Commission Delegated Regulations that specify the content and other modalities of those disclosures. The undertaking shall ensure that these disclosures are identifiable within the sustainability statement. The disclosures relating to each of the environmental objectives defined in the Taxonomy Regulation shall be presented together in a clearly identifiable part of the environmental section of the sustainability statement. 2.2.7.1 Weighted taxonomy In accordance with European Commission Notice C/2024/6691 of 8 November 2024 on the interpretation and implementation of certain legal provisions of the Disclosures Delegated Act under Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation on the reporting of Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities and assets, the insurance undertaking must publish a premium income-based KPI and a capital expenditure-based KPI (CapEx), which must be calculated as follows: • the turnover-based KPI of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking must be calculated as the weighted average of the premium income-based KPI in relation to the investment business of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking and the KPI relating to the non-life underwriting business of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, by applying weights corresponding to the share of income from investment activities and the share of income from non-life underwriting activities in the total income of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking; • the capital expenditure-based KPI of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking must be calculated as the weighted average of the capital expenditure-based KPI in relation to the investment business of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking and the KPI relating to the non-life underwriting business of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, by applying weights corresponding to the share of income from investment activities and the share of income from non-life underwriting activities in the total income of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking; Regulations do not specify how an insurer’s investment and underwriting KPIs are to be combined. In establishing its key performance indicators, CNP Assurances considers that: • “Income from investment activities” corresponds to financial income net of expenses relating to insurance business investments (A); • “Income from non-life underwriting activities” corresponds to total non-life gross premiums written (B); • the ""total income of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking” corresponds to the sum of financial income net of expenses relating to investments in insurance activities and non-life gross premiums written (A+B). The following table presents the key performance indicators as defined in European Commission Notice C/2024/6691 of 8 November 2024 for CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2024: Taxonomy alignment Key performance indicator based on turnover 3.0% Key performance indicator based on capital expenditure 4.1% Note on the interpretation of this indicator The taxonomy investment and underwriting KPIs relate to distinct approaches: • The purpose of the investment KPI is to show the proportion of investment allocated to taxonomy-compliant economic activities. It illustrates how the insurer contributes to redirecting capital towards more sustainable activities. • The underwriting KPI aims to demonstrate the extent to which the insurer contributes to the mitigation objective through its non-life activities. The underwriting KPI is designed to be more comparable to KPIs for non-financial activities. CNP Assurances draws attention to the confusion that can arise from reading a key performance indicator (KPI) that artificially combines insurance and investment KPIs. 2.2.7.2 Taxonomy related to the insurance business The key performance indicators (KPIs) regarding underwriting cover the environmental objective of climate change adaptation. They cover the scope of non-life insurance and are based on the following methodology: • The European Commission’s Notice of 6 October 2022 on the interpretation of certain legal provisions of the Disclosures Delegated Act under Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation specifies that insurers, in their taxonomy-eligibility reporting, should take into account the eligible non-life insurance activities mentioned in 10.1 of Annex II of the delegated acts of the Taxonomy Regulation. As stated in the heading, in addition to belonging to a relevant activity, insurance premiums must, to be taxonomy-eligible, cover the risks linked to climate-related hazards referred to in Appendix A of Annex II of the delegated acts of the Taxonomy Regulation;"
"112 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information • In accordance with the European Commission's communication of 21 December 2023, only the share of the premium directly covering the climate-related risks referred to in Appendix A of Annex II of the delegated acts of the Taxonomy Regulation are considered Taxonomy-eligible. In France, the proportion of eligible premiums corresponds to natural disasters, storms, hail and snow cover under auto and home insurance policies(1). • The eligible gross written premiums mentioned above that adhere to the technical criteria for substantial contribution to climate change adaptation, DNSH (do no significant harm) and minimum guarantees, are considered as aligned. For compliance with the minimum standards in social and governance matters, CNP Assurances and its subsidiaries adhere to these requirements by implementing appropriate procedures to identify, prevent, mitigate, or remedy the actual or potential negative impacts associated with their operations and value chain (see Chapter 5.3.2.7 Respect human rights). In France, the proportion of aligned premiums corresponds to natural disasters cover for motor and home insurance policies. Proportion of taxonomy-eligible non-life premiums written The following table shows the regulatory indicators relating to underwriting for CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2024: Economic activities(1) Substantial contribution to climate change adaptation DNSH (Do no significant harm) Premiums in absolute terms in 2024 Proportion of premiums in 2024 Proportion of premiums in 2023 Climate change mitigation Water and marine resources Circular economy Pollution Biodiversity and ecosystems Minimum safe- guards A.1 Non-life insurance and reinsurance underwriting Taxonomy-aligned activities €0m 0% 0% Yes Yes A.1.1 of which reinsured €0m 0% 0% Yes Yes A.1.2 of which from reinsurance activities €0m 0% 0% Yes Yes A.1.2.1 of which reinsured (retrocession) €0m 0% 0% Yes Yes A.2 Non-life insurance and reinsurance underwriting Taxonomy non-eligible activities €0m 0% 0% B. Non-life insurance and reinsurance underwriting Taxonomy non-eligible activities €1,670m 100% 100% TOTAL NON-LIFE INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE UNDERWRITING ACTIVITIES (A.1 + A.2 + B) €1,670m 100% 100% (1) The insurance business does not cover the extraction, storage, transportation or processing of fossil fuels, nor does it cover the use of vehicles, real estate or other assets for such purposes. Comments • The previous financial year highlighted the complexity of interpreting the data to be published by subsidiaries outside France, and more particularly outside Europe, in terms of eligibility and alignment with regulatory expectations, resulting in an eligibility and alignment of 0%. • The Brazilian subsidiaries CSH and Youse, that are the only entities with a Property and Casualty business, are therefore exempt from carrying out the underwriting taxonomy- eligibility assessment. For CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries: • The proportion of taxonomy-eligible non-life gross premiums written was 0% at 31 December 2024. • The proportion of Taxonomy-aligned non-life gross premiums written was 0% at 31 December 2024. (1) CNP Assurances IARD non-life insurance premiums in France are excluded from the following tables (CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries) but are included in the table in Appendix 2 of this statement (CNP Assurances Holding and its subsidiaries)"
"108 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information Lastly, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries are ""participating in the biodiversity initiative” launched in spring 2024 by 11 institutional investors. The purpose of the initiative is to encourage the development of effective methodologies to take biodiversity into account in financial management practices. The aim is to contribute to meeting international objectives for the protection and restoration of biodiversity and to help all institutional investors fulfil their investment objectives in favour of nature and ecosystems. This will be achieved through new investment portfolio monitoring indicators and through the financing of companies that are contributing to the emergence of effective biodiversity solutions or transitioning towards a sustainable business model from a biodiversity standpoint. The initiative is also supported by Association Française de Gestion d’Actifs, Institut de la Finance Durable and France Assureurs. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries have chosen to invest in the unlisted fund, which will be deployed in 2025. Monitoring and reporting Various monitoring and reporting systems have been set up covering the application of shareholder engagement and exclusion policies and the selection of investments on the basis of ESG criteria. The companies that manage the portfolios of equities and bonds, the property portfolios and the forestry assets on behalf of CNP Assurances, prepare regular reports on their management of these assets for submission to CNP Assurances. For example, Ostrum AM presents its consolidated ESG rating to CNP Assurances at the quarterly meetings of the SRI Committee. CNP Assurances ensures that the ESG approach is properly applied in the management of buildings and works, through six- monthly reviews of renovation, certification and labelling activities. The sustainable forest management charter included in the management agreement between CNP Assurances and Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts provides for the annual reporting of qualitative and quantitative indicators, including updates on progress towards the objectives set for the protection of biodiversity, water, soil and people. 2.2.5.4 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4‐3) Actions and resources relating to sustainable finance are detailed in section 2.2.1.3 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (E1-3)”. CNP Assurances focuses on initiatives aimed at reducing the environmental footprint and preserving biodiversity. However it does not yet invest in nature-based solutions (NbS), which, as defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), are actions to address societal challenges through the protection, sustainable management and restoration of ecosystems, benefiting both human well- being and biodiversity. In practical terms, this can correspond to actions such as restoring forests, mangroves and coastal ecosystems to mitigate the effects of global warming. Similarly, it has not yet integrated local and indigenous knowledge into its biodiversity-related actions, other than for directly managed real estate and forestry assets, for which it works with local organisations. 2.2.5.5 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems (E4‐4) Following the impact and dependency measurements carried out since 2022, a review will be undertaken to gradually establish quantified impact reduction targets. However, this will require improvements in both the accuracy of the measurements taken and the methodologies used for setting targets, as well as access to high-quality data. In 2021, CNP Assurances signed the Finance for Biodiversity Pledge – a commitment that requires it to: • cooperate and share knowledge about biodiversity-related measurement and target-setting methodologies; • integrate biodiversity in the responsible investment policy and shareholder engagement policy; • assess the positive and negative impacts of investments on biodiversity; • publish science-based targets to increase positive and reduce negative impacts on biodiversity; • report annually on the investment portfolios’ performance in relation to these objectives."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 109 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information In 2024, the level achieved for each of these commitments was as follows: Commitments Contributions Achievement rate at end-2024 Cooperate on impact assessment methodologies Participation in the Finance for Tomorrow working group on natural capital, the CDC Biodiversité B4B+ Finance Club and the drafting of France Assureurs’ guide on insurance and biodiversity In progress Incorporate biodiversity in ESG policy Follow-up of the inclusion in Ostrum AM’s discretionary asset management contract of the biodiversity aspects of ESG policy applied to directly-held listed assets In progress Support for the LBPAM and Tocqueville biodiversity fund Completed (€120 million invested) Inclusion of biodiversity in CNP Assurances’ corporate mission BRL Include biodiversity in the topics covered by shareholder dialogue Annual dialogue with five companies to encourage them to adopt a strategy aligned with international biodiversity agreements by the end of 2024 Completed Membership of the Nature Action 100 investor coalition Completed Assess the positive and negative biodiversity-related impacts of investing activities and identify the key drivers of biodiversity loss Biodiversity footprint of all securities measured as of end-2023 Completed Biodiversity of all forestry assets will be measured as of end-2025 92% 3% of woodland to be set aside for areas of older growth and natural growth by end-2025 2.69% FSC certification of forestry assets to be obtained by 2030 New Involvement of the Group Risk Department in nature-related issues, through the production of a comprehensive nature/biodiversity risk map by the end of 2025 New Mapping of investments in equities and bonds in biodiversity-sensitive areas and areas of water stress to be completed by 2027 New Publish science-based targets that have a material impact on biodiversity Biodiversity protection targets published in September 2021 Completed New exclusion criteria in the fight against climate change published in February 2022, in line with scientific scenarios for limiting global warming to +1.5°C Completed New exclusion criteria related to deforestation and pesticides published in June 2024 Completed Oversight and approval of the Biodiversity Transition Plan by the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances by end-2024 Completed 2.2.5.6 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change (E4-5) The impact metrics used are the static and dynamic footprints obtained using the BIA-GBSTM methodology."
"110 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.6 Resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5) 2.2.6.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investing activities Consumption of resources or production of waste generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which could lead to the depletion of resources or cause damage to ecosystems ESG filters established in the due diligence policy regarding the negative impact of investment decisions on sustainability factors Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries. Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”. 2.2.6.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy (E5‐1) ESG policy to reduce resource and circular economy-related impacts and risks CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries implement a uniform approach to responsible investment, detailed in the section on disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards E2 to E5. 2.2.6.3 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy (E5-2) Taking resources and the circular economy into account in ESG criteria for directly held listed equities and corporate bonds The “Sustainable management of resources” pillar of the GREaT rating, used to manage the portfolios of directly-held equities and corporate bonds on behalf of CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, ensures that the principles of the circular economy are taken into account in the design, production and use of products/services in order to reduce pollution and encourage recycling. This criterion particularly includes elements relating to waste management and packaging. Taking resources and the circular economy into account in real estate The Green Works Charter requires management companies of the properties held directly by CNP Assurances and its French subsidiaries to carry out work in accordance with the principles of this charter, particularly in terms of the circular economy: • materials and technologies used: • use materials or technologies with a limited impact on the environment, • promote the use of recycled or recyclable materials, • conduct a critical analysis prior to the use of new processes or products that are theoretically more environmentally friendly; • works phase: • draft an organisational plan of the site, • manage and recycle waste, • limit consumption of resources, • Perform eco-monitoring of the site; • management of activity waste: • reduce waste at source, • implement waste sorting, • treat and reuse waste and track its collection, • assess the amount of waste produced; • circular economy: • assess the possibility of using deconstruction processes to recover and reuse materials wherever possible for each operation, • promote the use of recycled materials from wherever possible. The management companies are responsible for the risks associated with this charter. CNP Assurances and its French subsidiaries expect them to manage these risks in an appropriate and balanced manner on a case-by-case basis depending on the materiality of the challenge in question."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 111 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.7 Information about the Taxonomy Regulation The undertaking shall include in its sustainability statement the disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and the Council and to the Commission Delegated Regulations that specify the content and other modalities of those disclosures. The undertaking shall ensure that these disclosures are identifiable within the sustainability statement. The disclosures relating to each of the environmental objectives defined in the Taxonomy Regulation shall be presented together in a clearly identifiable part of the environmental section of the sustainability statement. 2.2.7.1 Weighted taxonomy In accordance with European Commission Notice C/2024/6691 of 8 November 2024 on the interpretation and implementation of certain legal provisions of the Disclosures Delegated Act under Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation on the reporting of Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities and assets, the insurance undertaking must publish a premium income-based KPI and a capital expenditure-based KPI (CapEx), which must be calculated as follows: • the turnover-based KPI of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking must be calculated as the weighted average of the premium income-based KPI in relation to the investment business of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking and the KPI relating to the non-life underwriting business of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, by applying weights corresponding to the share of income from investment activities and the share of income from non-life underwriting activities in the total income of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking; • the capital expenditure-based KPI of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking must be calculated as the weighted average of the capital expenditure-based KPI in relation to the investment business of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking and the KPI relating to the non-life underwriting business of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, by applying weights corresponding to the share of income from investment activities and the share of income from non-life underwriting activities in the total income of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking; Regulations do not specify how an insurer’s investment and underwriting KPIs are to be combined. In establishing its key performance indicators, CNP Assurances considers that: • “Income from investment activities” corresponds to financial income net of expenses relating to insurance business investments (A); • “Income from non-life underwriting activities” corresponds to total non-life gross premiums written (B); • the ""total income of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking” corresponds to the sum of financial income net of expenses relating to investments in insurance activities and non-life gross premiums written (A+B). The following table presents the key performance indicators as defined in European Commission Notice C/2024/6691 of 8 November 2024 for CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2024: Taxonomy alignment Key performance indicator based on turnover 3.0% Key performance indicator based on capital expenditure 4.1% Note on the interpretation of this indicator The taxonomy investment and underwriting KPIs relate to distinct approaches: • The purpose of the investment KPI is to show the proportion of investment allocated to taxonomy-compliant economic activities. It illustrates how the insurer contributes to redirecting capital towards more sustainable activities. • The underwriting KPI aims to demonstrate the extent to which the insurer contributes to the mitigation objective through its non-life activities. The underwriting KPI is designed to be more comparable to KPIs for non-financial activities. CNP Assurances draws attention to the confusion that can arise from reading a key performance indicator (KPI) that artificially combines insurance and investment KPIs. 2.2.7.2 Taxonomy related to the insurance business The key performance indicators (KPIs) regarding underwriting cover the environmental objective of climate change adaptation. They cover the scope of non-life insurance and are based on the following methodology: • The European Commission’s Notice of 6 October 2022 on the interpretation of certain legal provisions of the Disclosures Delegated Act under Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation specifies that insurers, in their taxonomy-eligibility reporting, should take into account the eligible non-life insurance activities mentioned in 10.1 of Annex II of the delegated acts of the Taxonomy Regulation. As stated in the heading, in addition to belonging to a relevant activity, insurance premiums must, to be taxonomy-eligible, cover the risks linked to climate-related hazards referred to in Appendix A of Annex II of the delegated acts of the Taxonomy Regulation;"
"112 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information • In accordance with the European Commission's communication of 21 December 2023, only the share of the premium directly covering the climate-related risks referred to in Appendix A of Annex II of the delegated acts of the Taxonomy Regulation are considered Taxonomy-eligible. In France, the proportion of eligible premiums corresponds to natural disasters, storms, hail and snow cover under auto and home insurance policies(1). • The eligible gross written premiums mentioned above that adhere to the technical criteria for substantial contribution to climate change adaptation, DNSH (do no significant harm) and minimum guarantees, are considered as aligned. For compliance with the minimum standards in social and governance matters, CNP Assurances and its subsidiaries adhere to these requirements by implementing appropriate procedures to identify, prevent, mitigate, or remedy the actual or potential negative impacts associated with their operations and value chain (see Chapter 5.3.2.7 Respect human rights). In France, the proportion of aligned premiums corresponds to natural disasters cover for motor and home insurance policies. Proportion of taxonomy-eligible non-life premiums written The following table shows the regulatory indicators relating to underwriting for CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2024: Economic activities(1) Substantial contribution to climate change adaptation DNSH (Do no significant harm) Premiums in absolute terms in 2024 Proportion of premiums in 2024 Proportion of premiums in 2023 Climate change mitigation Water and marine resources Circular economy Pollution Biodiversity and ecosystems Minimum safe- guards A.1 Non-life insurance and reinsurance underwriting Taxonomy-aligned activities €0m 0% 0% Yes Yes A.1.1 of which reinsured €0m 0% 0% Yes Yes A.1.2 of which from reinsurance activities €0m 0% 0% Yes Yes A.1.2.1 of which reinsured (retrocession) €0m 0% 0% Yes Yes A.2 Non-life insurance and reinsurance underwriting Taxonomy non-eligible activities €0m 0% 0% B. Non-life insurance and reinsurance underwriting Taxonomy non-eligible activities €1,670m 100% 100% TOTAL NON-LIFE INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE UNDERWRITING ACTIVITIES (A.1 + A.2 + B) €1,670m 100% 100% (1) The insurance business does not cover the extraction, storage, transportation or processing of fossil fuels, nor does it cover the use of vehicles, real estate or other assets for such purposes. Comments • The previous financial year highlighted the complexity of interpreting the data to be published by subsidiaries outside France, and more particularly outside Europe, in terms of eligibility and alignment with regulatory expectations, resulting in an eligibility and alignment of 0%. • The Brazilian subsidiaries CSH and Youse, that are the only entities with a Property and Casualty business, are therefore exempt from carrying out the underwriting taxonomy- eligibility assessment. For CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries: • The proportion of taxonomy-eligible non-life gross premiums written was 0% at 31 December 2024. • The proportion of Taxonomy-aligned non-life gross premiums written was 0% at 31 December 2024. (1) CNP Assurances IARD non-life insurance premiums in France are excluded from the following tables (CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries) but are included in the table in Appendix 2 of this statement (CNP Assurances Holding and its subsidiaries)"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 91 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.6 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7) In addition to its decarbonisation initiatives, CNP Assurances intends to contribute to climate change mitigation by financing projects beyond its value chain. This voluntary contribution is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Drawing inspiration from its parent company, La Banque Postale, in 2022 CNP Assurances set up its first carbon and biodiversity fund, which is based on an internal mechanism for monetising the Group’s carbon footprint (called an “internal carbon price”). Under this mechanism, CNP Assurances devotes an annual sum equal to its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions multiplied by the internal carbon price to the following projects: • internal projects aimed at more effectively measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term; • external carbon credit purchasing projects; • internal or external projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity. This mechanism covers the entire CNP Assurances Group. The emissions taken into account are direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2) and indirect emissions linked to business travel and commuting (Scope 3). In order to meet the Group’s carbon reduction targets in line with its corporate mission, the internal carbon price was increased as from 1 January 2023 based on the internal price used by La Banque Postale. Set at €60/teqCO2 in 2023 versus €10.5/teqCO2 in 2022, this new internal price is more closely correlated with the market price. Projects eligible for the carbon and biodiversity fund and focused on measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term cover emissions from three main sources: running of buildings, IT systems, and employee commuting/business travel. Projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity are also eligible. In 2024, CNP Assurances' carbon and biodiversity fund financed: 1. the following internal projects: • reducing energy consumption at the data centre operated by CNP Assurances by shutting down 183 servers and replacing them with a cloud-based solution. Currently, all of the servers have to be running, even for a single user. The transfer to a cloud-based solution will have two advantages: the possibility of adapting consumption to usage and the fact that the cloud provider's data centre is more energy-efficient than the Group's data centre; • measuring the carbon footprint of external and internal web applications, which will make it possible to improve the measurement of CO2 emissions linked to CNP Assurances' use of digital technologies; • placing stickers on the glass façade of the Angers office building to prevent bird collisions; • planting greenery along the southern walkway of the Angers office building; • installing a nesting box for the kestrel that has taken up residence at CNP Assurances’ CTI in the Angers region; • the Serragem project, which began in 2007 and complies with the international Verified Carbon Standard. In 2024, CNP Assurances voluntarily contributed 9,469 teqCO2 to mitigate the effects of climate change. Serragem aims to combat deforestation by using biomass waste to replace firewood to fuel two ceramic factories in the city of São Miguel do Guamá, in the Brazilian state of Pará. Before the project began, the two factories together consumed 45,000 tonnes of Amazon forest firewood each year to fuel their kilns. Today, they use biomass in the form of acai seeds and sawdust, which used to be major sources of waste in the region. In addition to reducing GHG emissions and easing pressure on the Amazon forest, the project supports the local economy by creating jobs and new markets for local biomass suppliers. The project also creates environmental activities to reduce the impact of the ceramics industry and supports vulnerable groups through several social initiatives. The purchase of carbon credits is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. 2. the following external projects • the Nature Impact fund, an initiative launched by WWF France aimed at financing projects designed to preserve, restore and sustainably manage forests with high biodiversity value in mainland France. The underlying purpose of this fund is to protect 15,000 hectares of woodland in France – the equivalent of a quarter of the woodland that has been placed under “strong protection” by France’s National Forestry Office – while enabling the capture of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent over a period of 30 years. This fund is also being financed by La Banque Postale's carbon and biodiversity fund. CNP Assurances does not use the Nature Impact Fund to offset any of its GHG emissions, • in Brazil, in 2024, Caixa Vida e Previdência did not renew the voluntary financing of two projects initiated in 2023, but plans to do so again in 2025. The first of these projects – which is the outcome of a partnership between the Association of Extractive Reserve Residents (ASMOREX) and Biofílica Ambipar – is located in the Rio Preto-Jacundá extractive reserve and is aimed at reducing emissions by preserving forests, and promoting community development, education and healthcare. The second project, located in the town of Parnaíba, contributes to the production of wind power, • also in Brazil, CNP Seguranda set up a project called Conexão Amazônia in partnership with the Institute for the Conservation and Sustainable Development of the Amazon (Idesam), investing R$2.5 million. Through this investment, CNP Seguradora is supporting local non- profits to promote entrepreneurship and create income streams from socio-environmentally responsible value chains such as vegetable oil production, handicrafts and furniture-making. The project helps to support around 500 families facing social problems, improving their quality of life while promoting environmental conservation. CNP Seguradora's support will also enable more than 5,000 trees to be planted to restore deforested areas in the region. The partnership with Idesam was signed in March 2024, during the Brazil-France Economic Forum on The Transition to the Green Economy."
"92 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information ESRS Reference E1-7 - GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 2024 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon reduction projects 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_13 Share from reduction projects 100% Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon capture projects 0 teqCO2 E1-7_14 Share from removal projects 0% E1-7_10 Total carbon credits outside the undertaking's value chain that were verified and cancelled in the reporting period 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_04 Total GHG removals and storage in the upstream and downstream value chain 483,653 teqCO2 The 9,469 teqCO2 in carbon credits cancelled in 2024 corresponds to the Serragem project. Caixa Vida e Previdência voluntarily financed 4,150 teqCO2 under this project in 2023. this financing was not renewed in 2024. 2.2.1.7 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) This disclosure requirement is described in section 2.2.1.6 “GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7)”. 2.2.2 Disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards (E2 to E5) CNP Assurances considers that the sustainability matters related to pollution, water and marine resources, biodiversity, ecosystems and the circular economy are material for its investment activities. In particular, CNP Assurances considers that its investments could have a negative impact that could result in: • damage to ecosystems and public health [IRO 1]; • depletion of resources [IRO 1]; • biodiversity loss [IRO 1]. Reducing these negative impacts requires a responsible investment strategy. The general responsible investing approach applied by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries(1) is tailored to the specific nature of each asset class. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ approach is based on the principles of the Responsible Investment Charter and guided by the Global Compact principles, including protecting the environment. This approach contributes to seven United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Policies and actions relating to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) are based on the pillars of CNP Assurances’ responsible investment strategy: • exclusion policy (1); • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets (2); • shareholder engagement policy (3). The responsible investment strategy is defined as part of the investment strategy approved by Executive Management and the Board of Directors. A dedicated responsible investment governance structure has been set up to enable the Board of Directors, Executive Management, the relevant committees and the investment teams to integrate ESG issues into their decision-making and operational processes. The governance framework in place to implement and track these policies is described in section 2.1.2.1 entitled “Role of administrative, management and supervisory bodies (GOV-1)”. The stakeholders consulted are detailed in section 2.1.3.2 “Interests and views of stakeholders (SBM‐2)”. The resources allocated to sustainable finance within CNP Assurances are detailed in section 2.2.1.1 “Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1).” 2.2.2.1 Exclusion policy CNP Assurances excludes certain countries and companies from their investments on the basis of ESG (environmental, social and governance) criteria. In particular, some companies are excluded because they are involved in activities that may have a negative impact on the environment. The specific exclusion criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2‐2), water and marine resources (E3-2), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-3) and resource use and circular economy (E5‐2) – are described in the sections below about the actions and resources related to each matter. (1) Investments by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries account for almost 80% of CNP Assurances' total investments"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 93 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.2.2 Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets ESG filters for listed equities and bonds For directly-held equities and corporate bonds, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries use a best-in- class approach for their investment selection, applying the ESG filters used for the GREaT(1) non-financial analysis methodology. Corporate issuers’ non-financial ratings are calculated using this method, which makes it possible to carry out pragmatic and differentiating analyses of companies with regard to sustainable development challenges, and taking into account negative impacts. The “GREaT” methodology measures commitment and responsibility across four pillars, including sustainable management of environmental and human resources. This pillar assesses the sustainable management of human and natural resources, minimises the company’s negative impact on its ecosystem, and promotes companies that nurture their human capital. The specific criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) – are described in their corresponding sections. The Green Works property management charter Real estate has a significant impact on the environment, both in the construction and operating phases. The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries in order to limit pollution, reduce water consumption, track the use of resources and promote the circular economy. The ESG criteria are defined in operational terms in the property management mandate. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ real estate asset management companies undertake to carry out works in accordance with the rules of this charter, particularly in relation to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5). The specific criteria for each matter are described in their corresponding sections. CNP Assurances’ real estate asset management companies are responsible for the risks associated with this charter. CNP Assurances expects them to manage these risks in a balanced and appropriate manner on a case-by-case basis, depending on the materiality of the matter in question. The policy of selecting investments on the basis of ESG criteria is also used for other asset classes. This policy is detailed in the Climate Transition Plan. 2.2.2.3 Shareholder engagement and voting policy At the general meetings of listed companies in the portfolio, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries defend the interests of their policyholders and put their ESG commitments into practice. They also engage in dialogue with investee companies and asset managers, face-to-face or by letter, to encourage them to reduce their negative impacts. CNP Assurances applies its voting policy pragmatically, in some cases taking into account the specific characteristics of each company, such as business sector, national regulations, main ESG risks, size, shareholder structure, and economic and financial circumstances. CNP Assurances does not have specific targets for ESRS E2, E3 (including water and sustainable oceans and seas) and E5. The specific targets related to ESRS E4 are described in the ESRS E4 section on biodiversity and ecosystems. As permitted under the transitional provisions in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 of 31 July 2023, CNP Assurances has not estimated the anticipated financial effects of material risks and opportunities in relation to ESRS E2 to E5 (1) Proprietary methodology of La Banque Postal Asset Management"
"94 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3 Pollution (ESRS E2) 2.2.3.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Pollution generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which could cause damage to ecosystems and to people's health • Exclusion policy Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • Shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”. 2.2.3.2 Definition The assets or companies that CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries invest in may generate various forms of pollution: • ""Pollution of air"" refers to the undertaking's emissions into air (both indoor and outdoor), and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of water"" refers to the undertaking's emissions to water, and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of soil "" refers to the undertaking's emissions into soil and the prevention and reduction of such emissions; • “Substances of concern” covers the undertaking’s production, use, distribution and/or commercialisation of substances of concern, including substances of very high concern. 2.2.3.3 Policies related to pollution (E2-1) ESG policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries implement a uniform approach to responsible investment, detailed in the disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards E2 to E5. Exclusion policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks To reduce the impact of its investments on the environment, CNP Assurances chose to reduce its exposure to unconventional fossil fuels, including tar sands, shale oil and gas, and Arctic oil and gas as from 2021. The use of these resources has a negative impact on biodiversity and the climate and causes air, water and soil pollution. CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies in the oil and gas sector (prospecting, drilling, extraction, transformation, refining) deriving more than 10% of their revenue from non- conventional fossil fuels from new investments. In addition, CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies that derive more than 20% of their revenue from the manufacture or sale of pesticides (herbicides, fungicides and insecticides)."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 95 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3.4 Actions and resources related to pollution (E2-2) Taking pollution into account in ESG criteria for listed equities and bonds The ""Pollution/Waste"" criterion of the GREaT rating system, used for the management of listed equities and corporate bonds held directly by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, ensures that pollution reduction principles are taken into account in the design, production and use phases of products and services. • in particular, this criterion incorporates elements relating to air and soil pollution as well as metrics on toxic emissions and electronic and packaging waste. Taking pollution into account in the ""Green Works"" property management charter The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, including in relation to pollution: • works phase: • limit local pollution; • water quality and savings: • control the risk of contamination and bacterial growth in water systems, • distribute water that meets the requirements of the French Health Code and quality benchmarks; • air quality: • Limit the risk of bacterial contamination and growth in air treatment equipment; • circulate air meeting the requirements of the French Labour Code and other applicable laws: • avoid the presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in easy-to-install materials; • limitation of odours: • avoid the presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in easy-to-install materials; • asbestos: • identify the obligations laid down in the regulations incumbent on the owner and/or developer during renovation work, • obtain documents related to the presence of asbestos, • describe the steps for managing asbestos risk at a renovation site; • Lead in paint: • identify the obligations laid down in the regulations incumbent on the owner and/or developer during renovation work, • obtain documents related to the presence of lead in paint, • carry out regulatory controls. The ""Forêts CNP – Agir pour l'avenir"" sustainable forest management charter The renewal of Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts’ management agreement included the drafting of an action plan and environmental preservation objectives for the 2021- 2025 period within a sustainable management charter in France. As part of this charter, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries have undertaken to ban herbicides and fungicides and limit insecticides to health emergencies, while developing training programmes and methodologies to achieve these objectives. 2.2.4 Water and marine resources (ESRS E3) 2.2.4.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Consumption of water resources or extraction of marine resources generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which may lead to depletion of resources • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 91 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.6 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7) In addition to its decarbonisation initiatives, CNP Assurances intends to contribute to climate change mitigation by financing projects beyond its value chain. This voluntary contribution is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Drawing inspiration from its parent company, La Banque Postale, in 2022 CNP Assurances set up its first carbon and biodiversity fund, which is based on an internal mechanism for monetising the Group’s carbon footprint (called an “internal carbon price”). Under this mechanism, CNP Assurances devotes an annual sum equal to its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions multiplied by the internal carbon price to the following projects: • internal projects aimed at more effectively measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term; • external carbon credit purchasing projects; • internal or external projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity. This mechanism covers the entire CNP Assurances Group. The emissions taken into account are direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2) and indirect emissions linked to business travel and commuting (Scope 3). In order to meet the Group’s carbon reduction targets in line with its corporate mission, the internal carbon price was increased as from 1 January 2023 based on the internal price used by La Banque Postale. Set at €60/teqCO2 in 2023 versus €10.5/teqCO2 in 2022, this new internal price is more closely correlated with the market price. Projects eligible for the carbon and biodiversity fund and focused on measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term cover emissions from three main sources: running of buildings, IT systems, and employee commuting/business travel. Projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity are also eligible. In 2024, CNP Assurances' carbon and biodiversity fund financed: 1. the following internal projects: • reducing energy consumption at the data centre operated by CNP Assurances by shutting down 183 servers and replacing them with a cloud-based solution. Currently, all of the servers have to be running, even for a single user. The transfer to a cloud-based solution will have two advantages: the possibility of adapting consumption to usage and the fact that the cloud provider's data centre is more energy-efficient than the Group's data centre; • measuring the carbon footprint of external and internal web applications, which will make it possible to improve the measurement of CO2 emissions linked to CNP Assurances' use of digital technologies; • placing stickers on the glass façade of the Angers office building to prevent bird collisions; • planting greenery along the southern walkway of the Angers office building; • installing a nesting box for the kestrel that has taken up residence at CNP Assurances’ CTI in the Angers region; • the Serragem project, which began in 2007 and complies with the international Verified Carbon Standard. In 2024, CNP Assurances voluntarily contributed 9,469 teqCO2 to mitigate the effects of climate change. Serragem aims to combat deforestation by using biomass waste to replace firewood to fuel two ceramic factories in the city of São Miguel do Guamá, in the Brazilian state of Pará. Before the project began, the two factories together consumed 45,000 tonnes of Amazon forest firewood each year to fuel their kilns. Today, they use biomass in the form of acai seeds and sawdust, which used to be major sources of waste in the region. In addition to reducing GHG emissions and easing pressure on the Amazon forest, the project supports the local economy by creating jobs and new markets for local biomass suppliers. The project also creates environmental activities to reduce the impact of the ceramics industry and supports vulnerable groups through several social initiatives. The purchase of carbon credits is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. 2. the following external projects • the Nature Impact fund, an initiative launched by WWF France aimed at financing projects designed to preserve, restore and sustainably manage forests with high biodiversity value in mainland France. The underlying purpose of this fund is to protect 15,000 hectares of woodland in France – the equivalent of a quarter of the woodland that has been placed under “strong protection” by France’s National Forestry Office – while enabling the capture of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent over a period of 30 years. This fund is also being financed by La Banque Postale's carbon and biodiversity fund. CNP Assurances does not use the Nature Impact Fund to offset any of its GHG emissions, • in Brazil, in 2024, Caixa Vida e Previdência did not renew the voluntary financing of two projects initiated in 2023, but plans to do so again in 2025. The first of these projects – which is the outcome of a partnership between the Association of Extractive Reserve Residents (ASMOREX) and Biofílica Ambipar – is located in the Rio Preto-Jacundá extractive reserve and is aimed at reducing emissions by preserving forests, and promoting community development, education and healthcare. The second project, located in the town of Parnaíba, contributes to the production of wind power, • also in Brazil, CNP Seguranda set up a project called Conexão Amazônia in partnership with the Institute for the Conservation and Sustainable Development of the Amazon (Idesam), investing R$2.5 million. Through this investment, CNP Seguradora is supporting local non- profits to promote entrepreneurship and create income streams from socio-environmentally responsible value chains such as vegetable oil production, handicrafts and furniture-making. The project helps to support around 500 families facing social problems, improving their quality of life while promoting environmental conservation. CNP Seguradora's support will also enable more than 5,000 trees to be planted to restore deforested areas in the region. The partnership with Idesam was signed in March 2024, during the Brazil-France Economic Forum on The Transition to the Green Economy."
"92 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information ESRS Reference E1-7 - GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 2024 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon reduction projects 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_13 Share from reduction projects 100% Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon capture projects 0 teqCO2 E1-7_14 Share from removal projects 0% E1-7_10 Total carbon credits outside the undertaking's value chain that were verified and cancelled in the reporting period 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_04 Total GHG removals and storage in the upstream and downstream value chain 483,653 teqCO2 The 9,469 teqCO2 in carbon credits cancelled in 2024 corresponds to the Serragem project. Caixa Vida e Previdência voluntarily financed 4,150 teqCO2 under this project in 2023. this financing was not renewed in 2024. 2.2.1.7 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) This disclosure requirement is described in section 2.2.1.6 “GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7)”. 2.2.2 Disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards (E2 to E5) CNP Assurances considers that the sustainability matters related to pollution, water and marine resources, biodiversity, ecosystems and the circular economy are material for its investment activities. In particular, CNP Assurances considers that its investments could have a negative impact that could result in: • damage to ecosystems and public health [IRO 1]; • depletion of resources [IRO 1]; • biodiversity loss [IRO 1]. Reducing these negative impacts requires a responsible investment strategy. The general responsible investing approach applied by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries(1) is tailored to the specific nature of each asset class. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ approach is based on the principles of the Responsible Investment Charter and guided by the Global Compact principles, including protecting the environment. This approach contributes to seven United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Policies and actions relating to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) are based on the pillars of CNP Assurances’ responsible investment strategy: • exclusion policy (1); • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets (2); • shareholder engagement policy (3). The responsible investment strategy is defined as part of the investment strategy approved by Executive Management and the Board of Directors. A dedicated responsible investment governance structure has been set up to enable the Board of Directors, Executive Management, the relevant committees and the investment teams to integrate ESG issues into their decision-making and operational processes. The governance framework in place to implement and track these policies is described in section 2.1.2.1 entitled “Role of administrative, management and supervisory bodies (GOV-1)”. The stakeholders consulted are detailed in section 2.1.3.2 “Interests and views of stakeholders (SBM‐2)”. The resources allocated to sustainable finance within CNP Assurances are detailed in section 2.2.1.1 “Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1).” 2.2.2.1 Exclusion policy CNP Assurances excludes certain countries and companies from their investments on the basis of ESG (environmental, social and governance) criteria. In particular, some companies are excluded because they are involved in activities that may have a negative impact on the environment. The specific exclusion criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2‐2), water and marine resources (E3-2), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-3) and resource use and circular economy (E5‐2) – are described in the sections below about the actions and resources related to each matter. (1) Investments by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries account for almost 80% of CNP Assurances' total investments"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 93 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.2.2 Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets ESG filters for listed equities and bonds For directly-held equities and corporate bonds, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries use a best-in- class approach for their investment selection, applying the ESG filters used for the GREaT(1) non-financial analysis methodology. Corporate issuers’ non-financial ratings are calculated using this method, which makes it possible to carry out pragmatic and differentiating analyses of companies with regard to sustainable development challenges, and taking into account negative impacts. The “GREaT” methodology measures commitment and responsibility across four pillars, including sustainable management of environmental and human resources. This pillar assesses the sustainable management of human and natural resources, minimises the company’s negative impact on its ecosystem, and promotes companies that nurture their human capital. The specific criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) – are described in their corresponding sections. The Green Works property management charter Real estate has a significant impact on the environment, both in the construction and operating phases. The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries in order to limit pollution, reduce water consumption, track the use of resources and promote the circular economy. The ESG criteria are defined in operational terms in the property management mandate. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ real estate asset management companies undertake to carry out works in accordance with the rules of this charter, particularly in relation to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5). The specific criteria for each matter are described in their corresponding sections. CNP Assurances’ real estate asset management companies are responsible for the risks associated with this charter. CNP Assurances expects them to manage these risks in a balanced and appropriate manner on a case-by-case basis, depending on the materiality of the matter in question. The policy of selecting investments on the basis of ESG criteria is also used for other asset classes. This policy is detailed in the Climate Transition Plan. 2.2.2.3 Shareholder engagement and voting policy At the general meetings of listed companies in the portfolio, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries defend the interests of their policyholders and put their ESG commitments into practice. They also engage in dialogue with investee companies and asset managers, face-to-face or by letter, to encourage them to reduce their negative impacts. CNP Assurances applies its voting policy pragmatically, in some cases taking into account the specific characteristics of each company, such as business sector, national regulations, main ESG risks, size, shareholder structure, and economic and financial circumstances. CNP Assurances does not have specific targets for ESRS E2, E3 (including water and sustainable oceans and seas) and E5. The specific targets related to ESRS E4 are described in the ESRS E4 section on biodiversity and ecosystems. As permitted under the transitional provisions in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 of 31 July 2023, CNP Assurances has not estimated the anticipated financial effects of material risks and opportunities in relation to ESRS E2 to E5 (1) Proprietary methodology of La Banque Postal Asset Management"
"94 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3 Pollution (ESRS E2) 2.2.3.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Pollution generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which could cause damage to ecosystems and to people's health • Exclusion policy Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • Shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”. 2.2.3.2 Definition The assets or companies that CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries invest in may generate various forms of pollution: • ""Pollution of air"" refers to the undertaking's emissions into air (both indoor and outdoor), and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of water"" refers to the undertaking's emissions to water, and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of soil "" refers to the undertaking's emissions into soil and the prevention and reduction of such emissions; • “Substances of concern” covers the undertaking’s production, use, distribution and/or commercialisation of substances of concern, including substances of very high concern. 2.2.3.3 Policies related to pollution (E2-1) ESG policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries implement a uniform approach to responsible investment, detailed in the disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards E2 to E5. Exclusion policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks To reduce the impact of its investments on the environment, CNP Assurances chose to reduce its exposure to unconventional fossil fuels, including tar sands, shale oil and gas, and Arctic oil and gas as from 2021. The use of these resources has a negative impact on biodiversity and the climate and causes air, water and soil pollution. CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies in the oil and gas sector (prospecting, drilling, extraction, transformation, refining) deriving more than 10% of their revenue from non- conventional fossil fuels from new investments. In addition, CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies that derive more than 20% of their revenue from the manufacture or sale of pesticides (herbicides, fungicides and insecticides)."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 95 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3.4 Actions and resources related to pollution (E2-2) Taking pollution into account in ESG criteria for listed equities and bonds The ""Pollution/Waste"" criterion of the GREaT rating system, used for the management of listed equities and corporate bonds held directly by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, ensures that pollution reduction principles are taken into account in the design, production and use phases of products and services. • in particular, this criterion incorporates elements relating to air and soil pollution as well as metrics on toxic emissions and electronic and packaging waste. Taking pollution into account in the ""Green Works"" property management charter The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, including in relation to pollution: • works phase: • limit local pollution; • water quality and savings: • control the risk of contamination and bacterial growth in water systems, • distribute water that meets the requirements of the French Health Code and quality benchmarks; • air quality: • Limit the risk of bacterial contamination and growth in air treatment equipment; • circulate air meeting the requirements of the French Labour Code and other applicable laws: • avoid the presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in easy-to-install materials; • limitation of odours: • avoid the presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in easy-to-install materials; • asbestos: • identify the obligations laid down in the regulations incumbent on the owner and/or developer during renovation work, • obtain documents related to the presence of asbestos, • describe the steps for managing asbestos risk at a renovation site; • Lead in paint: • identify the obligations laid down in the regulations incumbent on the owner and/or developer during renovation work, • obtain documents related to the presence of lead in paint, • carry out regulatory controls. The ""Forêts CNP – Agir pour l'avenir"" sustainable forest management charter The renewal of Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts’ management agreement included the drafting of an action plan and environmental preservation objectives for the 2021- 2025 period within a sustainable management charter in France. As part of this charter, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries have undertaken to ban herbicides and fungicides and limit insecticides to health emergencies, while developing training programmes and methodologies to achieve these objectives. 2.2.4 Water and marine resources (ESRS E3) 2.2.4.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Consumption of water resources or extraction of marine resources generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which may lead to depletion of resources • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 91 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.6 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7) In addition to its decarbonisation initiatives, CNP Assurances intends to contribute to climate change mitigation by financing projects beyond its value chain. This voluntary contribution is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Drawing inspiration from its parent company, La Banque Postale, in 2022 CNP Assurances set up its first carbon and biodiversity fund, which is based on an internal mechanism for monetising the Group’s carbon footprint (called an “internal carbon price”). Under this mechanism, CNP Assurances devotes an annual sum equal to its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions multiplied by the internal carbon price to the following projects: • internal projects aimed at more effectively measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term; • external carbon credit purchasing projects; • internal or external projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity. This mechanism covers the entire CNP Assurances Group. The emissions taken into account are direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2) and indirect emissions linked to business travel and commuting (Scope 3). In order to meet the Group’s carbon reduction targets in line with its corporate mission, the internal carbon price was increased as from 1 January 2023 based on the internal price used by La Banque Postale. Set at €60/teqCO2 in 2023 versus €10.5/teqCO2 in 2022, this new internal price is more closely correlated with the market price. Projects eligible for the carbon and biodiversity fund and focused on measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term cover emissions from three main sources: running of buildings, IT systems, and employee commuting/business travel. Projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity are also eligible. In 2024, CNP Assurances' carbon and biodiversity fund financed: 1. the following internal projects: • reducing energy consumption at the data centre operated by CNP Assurances by shutting down 183 servers and replacing them with a cloud-based solution. Currently, all of the servers have to be running, even for a single user. The transfer to a cloud-based solution will have two advantages: the possibility of adapting consumption to usage and the fact that the cloud provider's data centre is more energy-efficient than the Group's data centre; • measuring the carbon footprint of external and internal web applications, which will make it possible to improve the measurement of CO2 emissions linked to CNP Assurances' use of digital technologies; • placing stickers on the glass façade of the Angers office building to prevent bird collisions; • planting greenery along the southern walkway of the Angers office building; • installing a nesting box for the kestrel that has taken up residence at CNP Assurances’ CTI in the Angers region; • the Serragem project, which began in 2007 and complies with the international Verified Carbon Standard. In 2024, CNP Assurances voluntarily contributed 9,469 teqCO2 to mitigate the effects of climate change. Serragem aims to combat deforestation by using biomass waste to replace firewood to fuel two ceramic factories in the city of São Miguel do Guamá, in the Brazilian state of Pará. Before the project began, the two factories together consumed 45,000 tonnes of Amazon forest firewood each year to fuel their kilns. Today, they use biomass in the form of acai seeds and sawdust, which used to be major sources of waste in the region. In addition to reducing GHG emissions and easing pressure on the Amazon forest, the project supports the local economy by creating jobs and new markets for local biomass suppliers. The project also creates environmental activities to reduce the impact of the ceramics industry and supports vulnerable groups through several social initiatives. The purchase of carbon credits is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. 2. the following external projects • the Nature Impact fund, an initiative launched by WWF France aimed at financing projects designed to preserve, restore and sustainably manage forests with high biodiversity value in mainland France. The underlying purpose of this fund is to protect 15,000 hectares of woodland in France – the equivalent of a quarter of the woodland that has been placed under “strong protection” by France’s National Forestry Office – while enabling the capture of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent over a period of 30 years. This fund is also being financed by La Banque Postale's carbon and biodiversity fund. CNP Assurances does not use the Nature Impact Fund to offset any of its GHG emissions, • in Brazil, in 2024, Caixa Vida e Previdência did not renew the voluntary financing of two projects initiated in 2023, but plans to do so again in 2025. The first of these projects – which is the outcome of a partnership between the Association of Extractive Reserve Residents (ASMOREX) and Biofílica Ambipar – is located in the Rio Preto-Jacundá extractive reserve and is aimed at reducing emissions by preserving forests, and promoting community development, education and healthcare. The second project, located in the town of Parnaíba, contributes to the production of wind power, • also in Brazil, CNP Seguranda set up a project called Conexão Amazônia in partnership with the Institute for the Conservation and Sustainable Development of the Amazon (Idesam), investing R$2.5 million. Through this investment, CNP Seguradora is supporting local non- profits to promote entrepreneurship and create income streams from socio-environmentally responsible value chains such as vegetable oil production, handicrafts and furniture-making. The project helps to support around 500 families facing social problems, improving their quality of life while promoting environmental conservation. CNP Seguradora's support will also enable more than 5,000 trees to be planted to restore deforested areas in the region. The partnership with Idesam was signed in March 2024, during the Brazil-France Economic Forum on The Transition to the Green Economy."
"92 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information ESRS Reference E1-7 - GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 2024 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon reduction projects 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_13 Share from reduction projects 100% Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon capture projects 0 teqCO2 E1-7_14 Share from removal projects 0% E1-7_10 Total carbon credits outside the undertaking's value chain that were verified and cancelled in the reporting period 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_04 Total GHG removals and storage in the upstream and downstream value chain 483,653 teqCO2 The 9,469 teqCO2 in carbon credits cancelled in 2024 corresponds to the Serragem project. Caixa Vida e Previdência voluntarily financed 4,150 teqCO2 under this project in 2023. this financing was not renewed in 2024. 2.2.1.7 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) This disclosure requirement is described in section 2.2.1.6 “GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7)”. 2.2.2 Disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards (E2 to E5) CNP Assurances considers that the sustainability matters related to pollution, water and marine resources, biodiversity, ecosystems and the circular economy are material for its investment activities. In particular, CNP Assurances considers that its investments could have a negative impact that could result in: • damage to ecosystems and public health [IRO 1]; • depletion of resources [IRO 1]; • biodiversity loss [IRO 1]. Reducing these negative impacts requires a responsible investment strategy. The general responsible investing approach applied by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries(1) is tailored to the specific nature of each asset class. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ approach is based on the principles of the Responsible Investment Charter and guided by the Global Compact principles, including protecting the environment. This approach contributes to seven United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Policies and actions relating to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) are based on the pillars of CNP Assurances’ responsible investment strategy: • exclusion policy (1); • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets (2); • shareholder engagement policy (3). The responsible investment strategy is defined as part of the investment strategy approved by Executive Management and the Board of Directors. A dedicated responsible investment governance structure has been set up to enable the Board of Directors, Executive Management, the relevant committees and the investment teams to integrate ESG issues into their decision-making and operational processes. The governance framework in place to implement and track these policies is described in section 2.1.2.1 entitled “Role of administrative, management and supervisory bodies (GOV-1)”. The stakeholders consulted are detailed in section 2.1.3.2 “Interests and views of stakeholders (SBM‐2)”. The resources allocated to sustainable finance within CNP Assurances are detailed in section 2.2.1.1 “Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1).” 2.2.2.1 Exclusion policy CNP Assurances excludes certain countries and companies from their investments on the basis of ESG (environmental, social and governance) criteria. In particular, some companies are excluded because they are involved in activities that may have a negative impact on the environment. The specific exclusion criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2‐2), water and marine resources (E3-2), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-3) and resource use and circular economy (E5‐2) – are described in the sections below about the actions and resources related to each matter. (1) Investments by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries account for almost 80% of CNP Assurances' total investments"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 93 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.2.2 Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets ESG filters for listed equities and bonds For directly-held equities and corporate bonds, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries use a best-in- class approach for their investment selection, applying the ESG filters used for the GREaT(1) non-financial analysis methodology. Corporate issuers’ non-financial ratings are calculated using this method, which makes it possible to carry out pragmatic and differentiating analyses of companies with regard to sustainable development challenges, and taking into account negative impacts. The “GREaT” methodology measures commitment and responsibility across four pillars, including sustainable management of environmental and human resources. This pillar assesses the sustainable management of human and natural resources, minimises the company’s negative impact on its ecosystem, and promotes companies that nurture their human capital. The specific criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) – are described in their corresponding sections. The Green Works property management charter Real estate has a significant impact on the environment, both in the construction and operating phases. The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries in order to limit pollution, reduce water consumption, track the use of resources and promote the circular economy. The ESG criteria are defined in operational terms in the property management mandate. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ real estate asset management companies undertake to carry out works in accordance with the rules of this charter, particularly in relation to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5). The specific criteria for each matter are described in their corresponding sections. CNP Assurances’ real estate asset management companies are responsible for the risks associated with this charter. CNP Assurances expects them to manage these risks in a balanced and appropriate manner on a case-by-case basis, depending on the materiality of the matter in question. The policy of selecting investments on the basis of ESG criteria is also used for other asset classes. This policy is detailed in the Climate Transition Plan. 2.2.2.3 Shareholder engagement and voting policy At the general meetings of listed companies in the portfolio, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries defend the interests of their policyholders and put their ESG commitments into practice. They also engage in dialogue with investee companies and asset managers, face-to-face or by letter, to encourage them to reduce their negative impacts. CNP Assurances applies its voting policy pragmatically, in some cases taking into account the specific characteristics of each company, such as business sector, national regulations, main ESG risks, size, shareholder structure, and economic and financial circumstances. CNP Assurances does not have specific targets for ESRS E2, E3 (including water and sustainable oceans and seas) and E5. The specific targets related to ESRS E4 are described in the ESRS E4 section on biodiversity and ecosystems. As permitted under the transitional provisions in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 of 31 July 2023, CNP Assurances has not estimated the anticipated financial effects of material risks and opportunities in relation to ESRS E2 to E5 (1) Proprietary methodology of La Banque Postal Asset Management"
"94 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3 Pollution (ESRS E2) 2.2.3.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Pollution generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which could cause damage to ecosystems and to people's health • Exclusion policy Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • Shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”. 2.2.3.2 Definition The assets or companies that CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries invest in may generate various forms of pollution: • ""Pollution of air"" refers to the undertaking's emissions into air (both indoor and outdoor), and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of water"" refers to the undertaking's emissions to water, and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of soil "" refers to the undertaking's emissions into soil and the prevention and reduction of such emissions; • “Substances of concern” covers the undertaking’s production, use, distribution and/or commercialisation of substances of concern, including substances of very high concern. 2.2.3.3 Policies related to pollution (E2-1) ESG policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries implement a uniform approach to responsible investment, detailed in the disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards E2 to E5. Exclusion policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks To reduce the impact of its investments on the environment, CNP Assurances chose to reduce its exposure to unconventional fossil fuels, including tar sands, shale oil and gas, and Arctic oil and gas as from 2021. The use of these resources has a negative impact on biodiversity and the climate and causes air, water and soil pollution. CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies in the oil and gas sector (prospecting, drilling, extraction, transformation, refining) deriving more than 10% of their revenue from non- conventional fossil fuels from new investments. In addition, CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies that derive more than 20% of their revenue from the manufacture or sale of pesticides (herbicides, fungicides and insecticides)."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 95 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3.4 Actions and resources related to pollution (E2-2) Taking pollution into account in ESG criteria for listed equities and bonds The ""Pollution/Waste"" criterion of the GREaT rating system, used for the management of listed equities and corporate bonds held directly by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, ensures that pollution reduction principles are taken into account in the design, production and use phases of products and services. • in particular, this criterion incorporates elements relating to air and soil pollution as well as metrics on toxic emissions and electronic and packaging waste. Taking pollution into account in the ""Green Works"" property management charter The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, including in relation to pollution: • works phase: • limit local pollution; • water quality and savings: • control the risk of contamination and bacterial growth in water systems, • distribute water that meets the requirements of the French Health Code and quality benchmarks; • air quality: • Limit the risk of bacterial contamination and growth in air treatment equipment; • circulate air meeting the requirements of the French Labour Code and other applicable laws: • avoid the presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in easy-to-install materials; • limitation of odours: • avoid the presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in easy-to-install materials; • asbestos: • identify the obligations laid down in the regulations incumbent on the owner and/or developer during renovation work, • obtain documents related to the presence of asbestos, • describe the steps for managing asbestos risk at a renovation site; • Lead in paint: • identify the obligations laid down in the regulations incumbent on the owner and/or developer during renovation work, • obtain documents related to the presence of lead in paint, • carry out regulatory controls. The ""Forêts CNP – Agir pour l'avenir"" sustainable forest management charter The renewal of Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts’ management agreement included the drafting of an action plan and environmental preservation objectives for the 2021- 2025 period within a sustainable management charter in France. As part of this charter, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries have undertaken to ban herbicides and fungicides and limit insecticides to health emergencies, while developing training programmes and methodologies to achieve these objectives. 2.2.4 Water and marine resources (ESRS E3) 2.2.4.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Consumption of water resources or extraction of marine resources generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which may lead to depletion of resources • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 91 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.1.6 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7) In addition to its decarbonisation initiatives, CNP Assurances intends to contribute to climate change mitigation by financing projects beyond its value chain. This voluntary contribution is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Drawing inspiration from its parent company, La Banque Postale, in 2022 CNP Assurances set up its first carbon and biodiversity fund, which is based on an internal mechanism for monetising the Group’s carbon footprint (called an “internal carbon price”). Under this mechanism, CNP Assurances devotes an annual sum equal to its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions multiplied by the internal carbon price to the following projects: • internal projects aimed at more effectively measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term; • external carbon credit purchasing projects; • internal or external projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity. This mechanism covers the entire CNP Assurances Group. The emissions taken into account are direct emissions (Scope 1), indirect emissions linked to energy consumption (Scope 2) and indirect emissions linked to business travel and commuting (Scope 3). In order to meet the Group’s carbon reduction targets in line with its corporate mission, the internal carbon price was increased as from 1 January 2023 based on the internal price used by La Banque Postale. Set at €60/teqCO2 in 2023 versus €10.5/teqCO2 in 2022, this new internal price is more closely correlated with the market price. Projects eligible for the carbon and biodiversity fund and focused on measuring and reducing GHG emissions over the long term cover emissions from three main sources: running of buildings, IT systems, and employee commuting/business travel. Projects aimed at preserving and restoring biodiversity are also eligible. In 2024, CNP Assurances' carbon and biodiversity fund financed: 1. the following internal projects: • reducing energy consumption at the data centre operated by CNP Assurances by shutting down 183 servers and replacing them with a cloud-based solution. Currently, all of the servers have to be running, even for a single user. The transfer to a cloud-based solution will have two advantages: the possibility of adapting consumption to usage and the fact that the cloud provider's data centre is more energy-efficient than the Group's data centre; • measuring the carbon footprint of external and internal web applications, which will make it possible to improve the measurement of CO2 emissions linked to CNP Assurances' use of digital technologies; • placing stickers on the glass façade of the Angers office building to prevent bird collisions; • planting greenery along the southern walkway of the Angers office building; • installing a nesting box for the kestrel that has taken up residence at CNP Assurances’ CTI in the Angers region; • the Serragem project, which began in 2007 and complies with the international Verified Carbon Standard. In 2024, CNP Assurances voluntarily contributed 9,469 teqCO2 to mitigate the effects of climate change. Serragem aims to combat deforestation by using biomass waste to replace firewood to fuel two ceramic factories in the city of São Miguel do Guamá, in the Brazilian state of Pará. Before the project began, the two factories together consumed 45,000 tonnes of Amazon forest firewood each year to fuel their kilns. Today, they use biomass in the form of acai seeds and sawdust, which used to be major sources of waste in the region. In addition to reducing GHG emissions and easing pressure on the Amazon forest, the project supports the local economy by creating jobs and new markets for local biomass suppliers. The project also creates environmental activities to reduce the impact of the ceramics industry and supports vulnerable groups through several social initiatives. The purchase of carbon credits is not intended to enable CNP Assurances to meet its direct or indirect greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. 2. the following external projects • the Nature Impact fund, an initiative launched by WWF France aimed at financing projects designed to preserve, restore and sustainably manage forests with high biodiversity value in mainland France. The underlying purpose of this fund is to protect 15,000 hectares of woodland in France – the equivalent of a quarter of the woodland that has been placed under “strong protection” by France’s National Forestry Office – while enabling the capture of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent over a period of 30 years. This fund is also being financed by La Banque Postale's carbon and biodiversity fund. CNP Assurances does not use the Nature Impact Fund to offset any of its GHG emissions, • in Brazil, in 2024, Caixa Vida e Previdência did not renew the voluntary financing of two projects initiated in 2023, but plans to do so again in 2025. The first of these projects – which is the outcome of a partnership between the Association of Extractive Reserve Residents (ASMOREX) and Biofílica Ambipar – is located in the Rio Preto-Jacundá extractive reserve and is aimed at reducing emissions by preserving forests, and promoting community development, education and healthcare. The second project, located in the town of Parnaíba, contributes to the production of wind power, • also in Brazil, CNP Seguranda set up a project called Conexão Amazônia in partnership with the Institute for the Conservation and Sustainable Development of the Amazon (Idesam), investing R$2.5 million. Through this investment, CNP Seguradora is supporting local non- profits to promote entrepreneurship and create income streams from socio-environmentally responsible value chains such as vegetable oil production, handicrafts and furniture-making. The project helps to support around 500 families facing social problems, improving their quality of life while promoting environmental conservation. CNP Seguradora's support will also enable more than 5,000 trees to be planted to restore deforested areas in the region. The partnership with Idesam was signed in March 2024, during the Brazil-France Economic Forum on The Transition to the Green Economy."
"92 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information ESRS Reference E1-7 - GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 2024 Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon reduction projects 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_13 Share from reduction projects 100% Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year relating to carbon capture projects 0 teqCO2 E1-7_14 Share from removal projects 0% E1-7_10 Total carbon credits outside the undertaking's value chain that were verified and cancelled in the reporting period 9,469 teqCO2 E1-7_04 Total GHG removals and storage in the upstream and downstream value chain 483,653 teqCO2 The 9,469 teqCO2 in carbon credits cancelled in 2024 corresponds to the Serragem project. Caixa Vida e Previdência voluntarily financed 4,150 teqCO2 under this project in 2023. this financing was not renewed in 2024. 2.2.1.7 Internal carbon pricing (E1-8) This disclosure requirement is described in section 2.2.1.6 “GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits (E1-7)”. 2.2.2 Disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards (E2 to E5) CNP Assurances considers that the sustainability matters related to pollution, water and marine resources, biodiversity, ecosystems and the circular economy are material for its investment activities. In particular, CNP Assurances considers that its investments could have a negative impact that could result in: • damage to ecosystems and public health [IRO 1]; • depletion of resources [IRO 1]; • biodiversity loss [IRO 1]. Reducing these negative impacts requires a responsible investment strategy. The general responsible investing approach applied by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries(1) is tailored to the specific nature of each asset class. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ approach is based on the principles of the Responsible Investment Charter and guided by the Global Compact principles, including protecting the environment. This approach contributes to seven United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Policies and actions relating to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) are based on the pillars of CNP Assurances’ responsible investment strategy: • exclusion policy (1); • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets (2); • shareholder engagement policy (3). The responsible investment strategy is defined as part of the investment strategy approved by Executive Management and the Board of Directors. A dedicated responsible investment governance structure has been set up to enable the Board of Directors, Executive Management, the relevant committees and the investment teams to integrate ESG issues into their decision-making and operational processes. The governance framework in place to implement and track these policies is described in section 2.1.2.1 entitled “Role of administrative, management and supervisory bodies (GOV-1)”. The stakeholders consulted are detailed in section 2.1.3.2 “Interests and views of stakeholders (SBM‐2)”. The resources allocated to sustainable finance within CNP Assurances are detailed in section 2.2.1.1 “Transition plan for climate change mitigation (E1-1).” 2.2.2.1 Exclusion policy CNP Assurances excludes certain countries and companies from their investments on the basis of ESG (environmental, social and governance) criteria. In particular, some companies are excluded because they are involved in activities that may have a negative impact on the environment. The specific exclusion criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2‐2), water and marine resources (E3-2), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4-3) and resource use and circular economy (E5‐2) – are described in the sections below about the actions and resources related to each matter. (1) Investments by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries account for almost 80% of CNP Assurances' total investments"
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 93 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.2.2 Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets ESG filters for listed equities and bonds For directly-held equities and corporate bonds, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries use a best-in- class approach for their investment selection, applying the ESG filters used for the GREaT(1) non-financial analysis methodology. Corporate issuers’ non-financial ratings are calculated using this method, which makes it possible to carry out pragmatic and differentiating analyses of companies with regard to sustainable development challenges, and taking into account negative impacts. The “GREaT” methodology measures commitment and responsibility across four pillars, including sustainable management of environmental and human resources. This pillar assesses the sustainable management of human and natural resources, minimises the company’s negative impact on its ecosystem, and promotes companies that nurture their human capital. The specific criteria for each sustainability matter – pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5) – are described in their corresponding sections. The Green Works property management charter Real estate has a significant impact on the environment, both in the construction and operating phases. The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries in order to limit pollution, reduce water consumption, track the use of resources and promote the circular economy. The ESG criteria are defined in operational terms in the property management mandate. CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries’ real estate asset management companies undertake to carry out works in accordance with the rules of this charter, particularly in relation to pollution (E2), water and marine resources (E3), biodiversity and ecosystems (E4) and resource use and circular economy (E5). The specific criteria for each matter are described in their corresponding sections. CNP Assurances’ real estate asset management companies are responsible for the risks associated with this charter. CNP Assurances expects them to manage these risks in a balanced and appropriate manner on a case-by-case basis, depending on the materiality of the matter in question. The policy of selecting investments on the basis of ESG criteria is also used for other asset classes. This policy is detailed in the Climate Transition Plan. 2.2.2.3 Shareholder engagement and voting policy At the general meetings of listed companies in the portfolio, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries defend the interests of their policyholders and put their ESG commitments into practice. They also engage in dialogue with investee companies and asset managers, face-to-face or by letter, to encourage them to reduce their negative impacts. CNP Assurances applies its voting policy pragmatically, in some cases taking into account the specific characteristics of each company, such as business sector, national regulations, main ESG risks, size, shareholder structure, and economic and financial circumstances. CNP Assurances does not have specific targets for ESRS E2, E3 (including water and sustainable oceans and seas) and E5. The specific targets related to ESRS E4 are described in the ESRS E4 section on biodiversity and ecosystems. As permitted under the transitional provisions in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 of 31 July 2023, CNP Assurances has not estimated the anticipated financial effects of material risks and opportunities in relation to ESRS E2 to E5 (1) Proprietary methodology of La Banque Postal Asset Management"
"94 CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3 Pollution (ESRS E2) 2.2.3.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Pollution generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which could cause damage to ecosystems and to people's health • Exclusion policy Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its subsidiaries • Non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • Shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”. 2.2.3.2 Definition The assets or companies that CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries invest in may generate various forms of pollution: • ""Pollution of air"" refers to the undertaking's emissions into air (both indoor and outdoor), and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of water"" refers to the undertaking's emissions to water, and prevention and reduction of such emissions; • ""Pollution of soil "" refers to the undertaking's emissions into soil and the prevention and reduction of such emissions; • “Substances of concern” covers the undertaking’s production, use, distribution and/or commercialisation of substances of concern, including substances of very high concern. 2.2.3.3 Policies related to pollution (E2-1) ESG policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries implement a uniform approach to responsible investment, detailed in the disclosure requirements covered in other environmental standards E2 to E5. Exclusion policy to reduce pollution-related impacts and risks To reduce the impact of its investments on the environment, CNP Assurances chose to reduce its exposure to unconventional fossil fuels, including tar sands, shale oil and gas, and Arctic oil and gas as from 2021. The use of these resources has a negative impact on biodiversity and the climate and causes air, water and soil pollution. CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies in the oil and gas sector (prospecting, drilling, extraction, transformation, refining) deriving more than 10% of their revenue from non- conventional fossil fuels from new investments. In addition, CNP Assurances has undertaken to exclude any companies that derive more than 20% of their revenue from the manufacture or sale of pesticides (herbicides, fungicides and insecticides)."
"CNP Assurances — 2024 Universal Registration Document 95 2 Sustainability Statement Environmental information 2.2.3.4 Actions and resources related to pollution (E2-2) Taking pollution into account in ESG criteria for listed equities and bonds The ""Pollution/Waste"" criterion of the GREaT rating system, used for the management of listed equities and corporate bonds held directly by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, ensures that pollution reduction principles are taken into account in the design, production and use phases of products and services. • in particular, this criterion incorporates elements relating to air and soil pollution as well as metrics on toxic emissions and electronic and packaging waste. Taking pollution into account in the ""Green Works"" property management charter The Green Works Charter sets rules that must be followed by the companies that manage the portfolios of real estate directly held by CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries, including in relation to pollution: • works phase: • limit local pollution; • water quality and savings: • control the risk of contamination and bacterial growth in water systems, • distribute water that meets the requirements of the French Health Code and quality benchmarks; • air quality: • Limit the risk of bacterial contamination and growth in air treatment equipment; • circulate air meeting the requirements of the French Labour Code and other applicable laws: • avoid the presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in easy-to-install materials; • limitation of odours: • avoid the presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in easy-to-install materials; • asbestos: • identify the obligations laid down in the regulations incumbent on the owner and/or developer during renovation work, • obtain documents related to the presence of asbestos, • describe the steps for managing asbestos risk at a renovation site; • Lead in paint: • identify the obligations laid down in the regulations incumbent on the owner and/or developer during renovation work, • obtain documents related to the presence of lead in paint, • carry out regulatory controls. The ""Forêts CNP – Agir pour l'avenir"" sustainable forest management charter The renewal of Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts’ management agreement included the drafting of an action plan and environmental preservation objectives for the 2021- 2025 period within a sustainable management charter in France. As part of this charter, CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries have undertaken to ban herbicides and fungicides and limit insecticides to health emergencies, while developing training programmes and methodologies to achieve these objectives. 2.2.4 Water and marine resources (ESRS E3) 2.2.4.1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1) Typology Value chain List of material IROs Related policies NEGATIVE IMPACTS Investments Consumption of water resources or extraction of marine resources generated by the assets in the investment portfolio, which may lead to depletion of resources • non-financial criteria applied in the selection and management of assets • shareholder engagement and voting policy. Scope: CNP Assurances SA and its French subsidiaries Impact materiality is assessed based on the criteria of scale, scope, irremediable character, likelihood and long-term impact. Positive or negative impacts assessed as material will differ from one another in that they may have more or less serious impacts, be more or less far-reaching, be reversible or non- reversible, be actual or potential and have a more or less significant long-term impact. Materiality is assessed on a gross basis, i.e., without taking into account prevention, mitigation or remedial measures. The procedure for identifying and assessing impacts, risks and opportunities is described in section 2.1.4.1 “Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities (IRO-1)”."

--- FMO Annual Report 2024_complete_LR ---
"Members of the Supervisory Board Details of the members of the Supervisory Board per 31 December 2024, including other positions, are provided in the following table. D.J. (Dirk Jan) van den Berg (Chair SB, member SARC) D.K. (Dugald) Agble (member ARC) E.M. (Eme) Essien Lore (member SB, member ARC, member Impact Committee) Dutch, 1953, male British, Ghanian, 1970, male American, 1970, female Appointment in current position: 2016 - 2024 (AGM 2025) (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Appointment in current position: 2024 - 2028 (first term) Experience: Supervisory, Political relations, International relations, Healthcare Experience: Supervisory, Private Equity, Impact investing Experience: Supervisory, Finance, Risk, Emerging Markets, Impact Investing, Corporate Governance, Diversity & Inclusion Principal position: 1. Chair of the Association of Health Insurance Companies in the Netherlands (Zorgverzekeraars Nederland) Other positions: 1. Member of the Supervisory Board of the AFKL-holding (Air France - KLM S.A.) 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Research Council (NWO) 3. Chair (non-executive) of the Board of Stasq B.V. (formerly: Tradesparent B.V.) a startup/scaleup software company offering solutions in data management for commodity trading industries. 4. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of FMO. Positions: 1. Director Patria Private Equity Trust Plc (formerly named abrdn Private Equity Opportunities) 2. Director Black Volta limited 3. Director Black Volta Ventures UK limited 4. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Positions: 1. Senior Advisor for ESG Africa 2. Co-founder and Executive Director of Wealth4Impact 3. Independent non-executive director and member of the Audit Committee of Africa50 Infrastructure Acceleration Fund 4. Independent non-executive director, chair of the Investment Strategy Committee and member of the Audit Committee of ARM Pension Managers (until 18 September 2024) 5. Independent non-executive director, member of the Remuneration Committee and chair of the Audit & Risk Committee of AfyA Nigeria 6. Member of the Sustainability and ESG Advisory Committee of Blue Like an Orange Sustainable Capital 7. Chair of African Children's Hospital Foundation (this organization is inactive. There have been no activities in the last 3 years) 8. Investment Committee member of Chui Ventures 9. Investment Committee member of Enko Impact Credit Fund 10. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO 58 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"J.V. (Koos) Timmermans (Vice- chair SB, Chair ARC) M. (Marjolein) Demmers (member SB, Chair Impact Committee, member SARC) R.P.F. (Reintje) van Haeringen (member SB, Chair SARC, member Impact Committee) Dutch, 1960, male Dutch, 1967, female Dutch, 1963, female Appointment in current position: 2017 - 2025 (AGM 2026) (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Experience: Supervisory, Banking, Finance, Sustainability, International relations, Risk & Regulatory Experience: Supervisory, NGOs, Sustainability, Compliance, Operations Experience: Supervisory, Development, Poverty reduction Positions: 1. Member of the Supervisory Board of PostNL 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of Havenbedrijf Rotterdam (Port Authority Rotterdam) 3. Board Member Administratie Kantoor Vopak 4. Board Member Administratie Kantoor Philips 5. Member Advisory Board Van Lanschot Kempen 6. Member Supervisory Board KWF Dutch Cancer Society 7. Member of the Supervisory Board of NN 8. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Principal position: Director/CEO of Dutch environmental NGO “Natuur & Milieu” Other positions: 1. Chair of the Supervisory Board of DRIFT (research, consultancy and education in transitions) 2. Board member of SKAO (Schemabeheerder CO2-prestatieladder) 3. Member of the Strategic Advisory Council of TNO ISP (ICT, Policy & Strategy) 4. Member of the Sustainability Board Van Oord 5. Member of the Advisory Council Environmental Sciences Group (ESG), WUR 6. Member Raad van Toezicht Stichting Sustainable Industry Lab (SIL), UU 7. Member Raad van Toezicht Stichting Robin Food Coalition (research and collaboration in the food transition) 8. Member Steering Board KIN – Klimaatonderzoek Initiatief Nederland – Science for Accelerating Transitions (NWO) 9. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Principal position: CEO CARE Nederland Other positions: 1. Board member of the ‘Samenwerkende Hulp Organisaties’ (SHO/Giro555) 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Relief Alliance 3. Member Advisory Board of 4TU’s initiative on resilience 4. Member of Steering Committee KUNO, a platform for humanitarian knowledge exchange 5. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO 59 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
RISK MANAGEMENT 03
"being formalized. To ensure the narrative's accuracy and completeness, the report undergoes multiple levels of review within FMO. At FMO, risks are prioritized based on their severity, which is assessed using two factors: probability and impact. Probability measures how likely a risk event is to occur. Impact considers the potential consequences, which can include operational loss, financial errors, failure to meet business goals, regulatory issues, or damage to reputation. Risk severity is assessed based on probability and impact, and classified as high, medium, or low. This corresponds to a 'Level of Concern' (LoC) rating: high (LoC 3), medium (LoC 2), or low (LoC 1). Depending on the severity, actions are required: High (LoC 3): actions must be completed within 3-6 months. Medium (LoC 2): actions should be completed within 6-9 months. Low (LoC 1): actions are optional. As the four risks identified as part of the first layer are key risks, they have a high LoC, while the risks in the second layer have been qualified with a medium LoC. The risks within the first layer have controls in place that are regularly being monitored and tested by their designated owners, in line with FMO’s approach. While for the second layer of risks related to data, controls are in place, but only some of them are being actively monitored as part of FMO’s overall risk governance and risk management approach. FMO is currently working on integrating the controls not regularly monitored and tested within the organization’s overall risk and management approach. Future actions FMO adheres to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Code is maintained by the Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code and supported by the ‘schragende partijen’ (supporting parties) consisting of Eumedion, Euronext, FNV, CNV, Vereniging van Effecten Bezitters (VEB), de Vereniging van Effecten Uitgevende Ondernemingen (VEUO) and VNO-NCW. The supporting parties and the Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants have suggested amending the Code to include a ‘Verklaring omtrent Risicobeheersing’ (VOR). According to this proposal, listed companies and other companies following the Dutch Corporate Governance Code will be required to include for the first time in the annual report on 2025 a disclosure statement on risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting. Although sustainability reporting guidelines such as CSRD / ESRS are not embedded in the Corporate Governance code yet, FMO would like to adhere to these requirements as soon as possible. ESRS calls for a connectivity between the 'Financial Statements' and 'Sustainability statement' both from the process perspective and disclosures perspective. As this is the first time reporting, FMO recognizes this as a point of attention. It is up to the Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code to amend the Code to accommodate the VOR proposal. In a letter to the Dutch parliament, the minister of finance encourages the (to be appointed) Monitoring Committee to include the VOR. 131 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E1 Climate Change E1 Introduction In its 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan, FMO presents a set of ambitions, targets and actions to contribute to climate change mitigation and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction. SDG 13 on Climate Change is one of the core components of our 2030 Strategy. An important component of FMO's climate ambition is that it contributes to a just and inclusive transition. We recognize that environmental and social objectives are inextricably linked. For FMO, this represents both the synergies and necessity of pursuing our core SDG goals SDGs 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), 10 (Reducing Inequalities), and 13 (Climate Action) together, if we are to be successful in contributing to any of them individually. FMO acknowledges that climate change will undermine sustainable development goals if not urgently addressed. This implies that FMO’s customers (both current and new) might face new and never previously experienced risks from negative climate change consequences. The rise in weather and climate extremes has already led to some irreversible effects, while the preservation of ecosystems is essential for human well-being and the achievement of the SDGs. FMO recognizes that development finance is urgently needed to contribute to SDG 13, and to support an inclusive and just transition. FMO steers its investments towards those aiming at contributing to a positive impact towards SDG 13, such as investments related to climate adaptation, resilience and mitigation, while managing possible negative impacts. E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities Based on our double materiality assessment (DMA), we have identified the following impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) related to the topic of climate change. Table 14 Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Climate change mitigation Actual negative impact Financed emissions contributing negatively to climate change. Financed emissions Short term Downstream Investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. Power Generation Emission Reduction Target Climate change adaptation Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of investments throughout agricultural supply chains on climate change adaptation through the increase of sustainable, resource efficient and resilient practices and business models. These investments aim to enhance the readiness and capacity of stakeholders to address changing weather patterns and extreme events (e.g. droughts or floods) associated with climate change. Contribution to climate adaptation through investments. Long term Downstream Investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals; Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. SDG 13 Target 132 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Climate change mitigation Potential positive impact Impact through climate mitigation as a result of investments into renewable energy production capacity, CO2 storage and energy infrastructure in developing countries and fragile states, financing the transition away from fossil fuels and thus reducing overall GHG emissions. Contribution to climate mitigation through investments. Medium term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Energy Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of renewable energy production capacity and energy infrastructure investments to reduce volatility of energy prices experienced using fossil fuel sources, and increase the stability of local energy grids and production capacity, as well as strengthen resilience against extreme weather events caused by climate change, contributing overall to better climate change resilience and adaptation for beneficiaries. Contribution to renewable energy production capacity through investments. Medium term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals, Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Climate change adaptation Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of investing in FI's to provide climate financing, including the use of innovative technologies, such as FinTech, or financial instruments to entrepreneurs or FI's in developing countries, providing new access to financing of climate resilience solutions. Contribution to increased access to financing of climate resilience solutions. Long term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Climate change adaptation Opportunity The opportunity for FMO to identify, create and develop new markets relating to climate adaptation (e.g. climate smart and resilient solutions) into bankable projects, to deploy and attract public or private funds and generate return on investment at scale. Opportunity to create new markets related to climate adaptation. Upstream, Downstream investment portfolio CAP: Increasing climate investments to support our customers. No specific target Climate change mitigation Risk Risk of not achieving net zero alignment by 2050, caused by misaligned investment decisions or poor progress by clients and beneficiaries, resulting in reputational, legal and financial issues. Risk of not being in the path to Net Zero. Own operations CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. No specific target 133 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of climate hazards having a material impact on client creditworthiness, caused primarily by effects from acute physical climate hazards such as floods, wildfires, droughts and other extreme weather events. Risk of physical climate hazards on clients. Downstream investment portfolio Climate Risk Policy CAP: Active management of our climate action. No specific target Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of choosing inefficient climate mitigation innovations or some which have the need to be further developed. Investments in the innovative sector have the potential of not being profitable. Risk of investing in inefficient climate mitigation innovations. Downstream investment portfolio No specific target Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of FIs being affected by macroeconomic conditions in the event of a chaotic transition to a low-carbon economy (i.e. rapid, large changes in policy, financing or sentiment), or as a result of the ineffective transition and adaptation to the new reality of climate change, resulting in financial damage to FMO. Risk of a chaotic transition to low-carbon economy. Downstream investment portfolio Climate Risk Policy CAP: Active management of our climate action. No specific target FMO’s DMA, as described in 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', identified potential negative impacts through financed absolute emissions and potential positive impacts through investments in climate adaptation, climate mitigation and renewable energy as well as physical and transition risks. The Climate Risk Report and Climate Action Plan (CAP), both prepared in 2022, provided important input for determining FMO’s climate-related IROs. Impacts Both positive and negative impacts take place downstream in our investment portfolio. The impact of our own operations or those of our upstream suppliers are not considered material because of the small scale of emissions compared to those in our portfolio. The CAP describes how FMO actively monitors its activities and portfolio, thereby identifying actual and potential future GHG emission sources and other climate-related impacts within its operations and across its value chains. The intent of our data/ information collection drive is not only to use the information we gather for reporting and compliance purposes, but to actively manage our portfolio better, and to tailor our climate actions towards what is most effective. We will continue to work on improving our internal management and reporting systems to actively manage progress towards our sustainability goals. As part of our ESG management process we uphold IFC Performance Standard 3 (IFC PS3) (addressing resource efficiency and pollution prevention), which includes minimizing the pollution from project activities. When project related emissions are potentially significant, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g. use of renewable energy sources, sustainable agricultural, the reduction of fugitive emissions, etc.) that avoid or reduce emissions in order to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment (IFC PS3). FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for integrating emission reduction into product design and operational processes (IFC PS3). Specifically, ""this applies to the release of pollutants to air, water, and land due to routine, non- routine, and accidental circumstances with the potential for local, regional, and transboundary impacts."" Transboundary pollutants include those covered under the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary 134 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Air Pollution, such VOCs that are key precursors in the formation of tropospheric ozone and particulate matter (of which black carbon is a significant component). This means that by upholding the IFC PS we indirectly screen investments for climate-related impacts, such as black carbon and tropospheric ozone. FMO reports on financed absolute emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 in line with the GHG Protocol, as described in more detail in section 'E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions'. The financed absolute GHG emissions are reported in line with the Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry published by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). Although emissions from FMO operations are not considered material, we will continue to report scope 1 and 2 emissions to be able to present a full picture of our GHG emission footprint. Risks & opportunities The material climate-related risks and opportunities for FMO occur both upstream and downstream in the investment portfolio. The climate-related risks identified in the DMA are aligned with internal risk assessment processes and documents. The assessment of climate risks happens on an ongoing basis at FMO. We run a portfolio scan on a quarterly basis that is reported to the Financial Risk Committee (FRC), which monitors our portfolio’s exposure to physical and transition risks. We also conduct materiality assessments which determine the potential for climate risk drivers to affect FMO’s portfolio or the entity itself. Both processes are discussed with the FRC. Furthermore, work is ongoing to embed climate risk assessments at the organizational level as well as within the investment cycle. The regular climate risk assessments inform the Financial Risk team’s decisions. Scenarios are considered and factors are stressed in FMO’s Internal Capital and Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Processes (ICAAP and ILAAP), which are aligned with our regular Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) cycle. FMO’s physical climate risks were assessed over the current, medium and long-term using a high- emissions scenario and in line with guidelines from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the ECB guide on Climate-related and Environmental Risks. While the climate risk assessment covers physical risks and transition risks, the various time horizons and high-emissions scenario were applied only to physical risks. FMO is currently working on further defining a methodology to assess transition risks that is suitable for the markets in which it operates. The climate risks associated with FMO’s investment portfolio are also described in FMO’s first climate risk report, which, as mentioned above, are aligned with the climate-related risks identified in the DMA. This report was written in line with the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) requirements and shows that FMO’s portfolio is exposed to climate change risks, which will increase over time, with clear differences across locations, sectors and hazard types. This analysis, as well as those resulting from FMO’s ICAAP and ILAAP and continuous monitoring, served as input for the DMA, where additional transition risks (and opportunities) were identified. The climate scenarios used are currently independent of the financial models, as FMO currently does not include climate-related assumptions in the financial models. FMO will explore assessing possible inclusion of climate-related risks in our financial models based on expected credit losses. As part of our DMA, we identified a specific downstream (portfolio) risk related to water (E3) that we feel is better addressed under the risk of climate hazards here in E1: “There is a global risk of increased water scarcity due to climate change, increased water withdrawals and unsustainable water practices. This affects costs of production through higher water prices and leads to reduced crop yield and failure.” This is covered by the current climate hazards risk described in Table 14. Physical risks FMO plans to perform a physical risk assessment in line with the recommendations set out by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the ECB guide on Climate-related and Environmental Risks (ECB, 2021). For this reason we have developed a C&E risk assessment tool that supports the identification and monitoring of C&E risks at the customer level. The tool currently focuses mainly on physical climate risks. 135 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Various physical risks (flooding, temperature extremes, fire, water stress, drought, erosion, tropical cyclones and crop yield loss) are assessed based on a multiplication of hazard scores at specific locations or regions and sensitivity scores (specific to the sector/industry of the investment/business activity) to these hazards. The climate-related physical hazards have been identified over current-, medium- and long-term time horizons. For the physical climate risks, current-, medium- and long-term time horizons have been defined as follows: Current-term: 2011-2040 Medium-term: 2041-2070 Long-term: 2071-2100 These time horizons are different from the time horizons specified by the ESRS. The time horizons used are in line with standard practice in the climate science community, where climate refers to the long- term weather pattern in a region, typically averaged over 30 years. In some cases, if the original data source did not overlap with these time horizons, the closest time period was chosen. The physical risk assessments are currently not tied to the lifetime of the exposure. Even if human-induced climate changes would not materialize in the near future under the climatological time horizon, foreseen changes may already affect investment decisions and other financial parameters today and therefore materialize earlier from a financial risk perspective, within the time horizons as specified by the ESRS. The ICAAP assessments consider climate risks over a period of three years. Physical risks hazards are estimated to affect FMO’s customers in various locations and sectors to different extents, according to the climate risk assessment. The physical risks assessed in the climate risk assessments were summarized as one physical risk in the DMA. The various physical risks for FMO’s relevant industries are assessed on an ongoing basis and reported through regular reviews within internal committees at portfolio level. To increase the granularity and understanding of these risks, FMO is currently in the process of rolling out physical climate risk assessments in the investment process, complementing the assessment at portfolio level as mentioned above. The scores for physical hazards were created for both acute and chronic hazard types under a high emissions or worst-case climate scenario, which is the IPCC RCP 8.5 scenario. RCP 4.5 was also considered, but the projections from RCP 8.5 cover a greater range of climate conditions, especially for the long-term time horizon. Furthermore, the temperature and rainfall changes are more intense under RCP 8.5, and the long-term projections from RCP 4.5 are quite similar to the medium-term projection from RCP 8.5. In conclusion, RCP 8.5 covers a wider range of climate conditions (more extremes) for the risk assessment, so we believe this is the more appropriate choice, as it better covers potential risks and uncertainties. RCP 8.5 makes the following assumptions about policies, macro-economic trends, energy usage and mix, and technology: Policy Assumptions: It assumes minimal or no additional climate policies beyond those already in place, leading to high GHG emissions. Macroeconomic Trends: The scenario includes assumptions about high population growth and relatively slow income growth. Energy Usage and Mix: It projects high energy demand with a continued reliance on fossil fuels, resulting in significant GHG emissions. Technology Assumptions: The scenario assumes modest rates of technological change and improvements in energy intensity, meaning that advancements in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies are not sufficient to offset the high energy demand. The scores for physical hazards were derived from climate models listed in the IPCC CMIP5 and CMIP6 protocols, where available. Each hazard was evaluated using a specifically chosen modeling method and simulated hazard exposure outputs from leading, peer-reviewed research institutions, and was further developed in partnership with well-known research institutions. The risk scores were created and standardized at an approximate 50x50 km spatial resolution as a level 1 detailed product. If grid location or country data was missing for an investment or loan, it was excluded from the analysis. Additionally, if 136 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the provided location data was not at least at the country level (e.g. listed as ‘Global’ or ‘Latin America’), it was also not included in the analysis. Transition risks Transition risks are described in FMO’s climate risk methodology. FMO is currently in the process of adjusting its transition risk methodology with a specific focus on considering how this risk can materialize and affect clients in unique ways based on the different markets where FMO invests. In addition, further developments are ongoing, for example: The Paris Alignment methodology was developed in 2023-2024, and it will apply to new investments after its implementation (as described in further detail in E1-3). ICAAP and ILAAP stress testing as described in 'E1 Resilience Analysis'. The transition risks identified in the current assessment framework are focused on industry sensitivities. Additionally, transitional risks and opportunities were identified and scored as material during the DMA 2024 process due to the inputs from interviews and discussions with the project group. We currently do not perform a climate transition risk assessment for new investments, but only at portfolio level. FMO evaluates its exposures to transition risk at portfolio level by considering industry sensitivities, as well as a range of specific energy technologies, various transition risk (drivers) and scale possible risk exposure from 1-5. These risks were taken as input for the DMA, which have been summarized into three transition risks, as presented in the overview table at the start of this section. The risks outlined in the (internal) climate risk assessment align with the risks identified by the DMA. The transition risk assessment at portfolio level analyzes the transition risks (policy and legal; technology- related; market-related and reputational risks) for the various sectors in our portfolio in more detail than the DMA provides. Furthermore, our ICAAP 2022 includes information on the identification of transition events and assessment of exposure informed by climate-related scenario analysis. Our ICAAP from 2023 covers more detail on transition events, and an assessment of exposure based on the stress test assumptions for transition risk, where a disorderly transition is tested. The transition risk assessments mentioned in the 2022 risk assessment are less mature than the physical risks. We are currently updating the transition risk assessment methodology. The transition risks are not yet linked to current-, medium- and long-term time horizons, and these horizons have not been yet defined (transition trends, however, have been linked to current-, medium- and long-term time horizons). We have finalized the methodology for Paris Alignment in 2024. This methodology will enable FMO to identify activities that are incompatible with, or need significant efforts to be compatible with, transition to an economy that is aligned with the climate goals in the Paris Agreement. New transactions will be assessed for alignment with the Paris Agreement goals once the methodology has been rolled out. In the remainder of the E1 chapter, we describe the policies, actions, targets and decarbonization levers related to the IROs that were identified during the DMA, as well as FMO's resilience analysis. E1 Resilience analysis The section 'E1-IRO' describes the material climate-related risks, including whether they are classified as physical or transition risks. To determine the resilience of both its investment portfolio and its own operations, FMO is required by the DNB to assess material risks under the Internal ICAAP and ILAAP through stress testing. FMO’s upstream value chain is not included in this resilience assessment and was also not found to be material by the DMA. The ICAAP and ILAAP assessments are conducted every year, though the depth of the assessments differs depending on whether a SREP runs in a specific year. The frequency of the latter is decided upon by the DNB based on the risk profile of the institution but is typically done on an annual basis. The ICAAP and 137 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"ILAAP assessments are aligned with FMO’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), which formulates the type and amount of risk that the bank is able and willing to accept in pursuit of its strategy. The 2023 version of the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments was the latest one that was part of a SREP. Some additional analyses took place in Q1 of 2024 based on feedback from DNB. Part of the input for the stress tests that were performed for this assessment cycle was based on a Climate Risk Analytics Methodology for FMO to identify material climate risks. Based on the assessment of physical risks by using this methodology, the countries and hazards with the highest severity and likelihood have been selected as input to the stress test. Transition risks have also been included, based on scenarios developed by the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS). Based on the outcomes of the DMA, the focus of FMO’s climate-related risks is on its investment portfolio rather than its own operations or upstream value chain. All material risks as identified in DMA were already included in the materiality assessment underlying the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments. The 2023 ICAAP and ILAAP assessments used 2022 as a base year to make a forecast for the period 2023 - 2025.The climate risk stress testing includes both physical and transition risks, based on established climate scenarios (IPCC, NGFS) to evaluate potential impact on FMO’s portfolio. The ICAAP and ILAAP assessment use stress testing scenarios that include macroeconomic factors, such as currency fluctuations and market volatility. A ‘disorderly transition’ scenario to a low-carbon economy has been formulated with help of experts, which has been used to evaluate potential transitions risks for FMO. This scenario assumed 1) policy & legal risks in the form of carbon pricing, asset stranding, and rising insurance costs, 2) technology and innovation risks in the form of advancements in renewable energy and battery technologies, 3) market risks resulting from changing consumer and market sentiments, and 4) reputation risks resulting from adverse reputational impacts, such as changing perceptions of financing high-carbon activities. The stress tests show that FMO is resilient to material climate risks. Both physical and transition risks under different scenarios have limited impact on liquidity and are within the risk appetite formulated by FMO. Additionally, FMO’s capital position remains adequate, and the excess capital remains robust under all circumstances simulated by the stress test scenarios. Specifically, the climate risks scenarios show that, despite the risks that are relevant for FMO and for the markets in which FMO operates, the impact on the capital position is estimated to remain limited. There were several limitations to the resilience analysis. First, the definition of the physical climate risks used include the fact that the risk definitions are ex-ante and model based, do not include potential adaptation measures, and use a top-down, national level approach. Reliability for these types of risks was further limited by the use of proxy data to fill in data gaps, applying averages over long time- periods, and not including all potential hazards. Secondly, with regards to transition risks, the risk assessment is predominantly based on qualitative information, reducing its systemization and comparability, and not allowing for granularity (e.g., at country-level). While there are inherent uncertainties to climate change and society’s response to it, FMO continues to improve its methodology and run (stress) scenario analyses to capture plausible but severe scenarios for the institution. As mentioned previously, the stress testing done for the resilience analysis is in line with FMO’s RAF. The RAF is monitored, managed and revised regularly to accommodate any market or organizational changes, and is reviewed by the Management Board and approved by the Supervisory Board on an annual basis. If necessary, it can be revised on a semi-annual basis in case of material developments. The outcomes of the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments are used to formulate possible strategic responses. Climate- and environmental risks are inherently material to FMO’s business model & strategic risks, but this risk is also well managed by means of monitoring and reviewing of its business environment and strategic planning embedded within the organization and periodically reviewed with its stakeholders. Currently, the conclusion is that the risks to capital and liquidity related to climate change are well- managed by FMO and do not constitute a risk for the resilience of the business model. In addition to monitoring and managing risks, FMO has a pro-active investment strategy that contributes to climate adaptation and mitigation worldwide, also specifically aiming to increase the resilience of its customers, by engaging actively with them to define climate adaptation solutions and 138 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"providing technical assistance. How FMO implements this in practice will be elaborated on more in 'E1-3 Actions'. Through these actions, FMO not only aims to achieve a positive impact, but also increases resilience of the portfolio against both physical and transition risks. E1 ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes As explained in 'ESRS 2 - Governance of sustainability matters', there is no direct relationship between sustainability-related elements, including climate, and remuneration elements in FMO's remuneration policy. Along with many other elements, climate-related performance only has an indirect effect on remuneration, even though it can contribute in part to individual annual performances. E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation FMO does not have a formal transition plan, however, information included in this section is described in other relevant FMO documents. Two sets of actions, directly contributing to climate change mitigation, can be classified as decarbonization levers, as per the ESRS definition: 1. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. 2. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. These levers are described in more detail in section 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies'. FMO has set a GHG emission reduction target: the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target. FMO aims to reduce emissions from financed scope 1 emissions in power generation by 50 percent in 2030. This target was developed using a 1.5°C pathway scenario (REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4, Scenario: Orderly - Net Zero 2050 scenario, electricity). More details on this target are provided in section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. FMO has set the ambition in its 2030 Strategy to be Net Zero by 2050. In the short-term FMO will steer on aligning financial flows with 1.5°C aligned sectors and activities. FMO is also developing a Paris alignment methodology, based on internationally acknowledged guidelines and best practice. Over time, when data and methodologies have improved, FMO will use country- and sector-based 1.5°C pathways as guidance for the emission intensity requirements of its targets at portfolio and investments level. As a component of our climate action project workstream, we will continue to improve our data collection, including at the level of our customers, and use it to assess our progress. FMO recognizes that climate objectives should be carefully balanced with customer- and/ or location- specific social and environmental considerations, including the need for a just and inclusive transition and will further study how to treat potential tradeoffs in this regard. In addition, FMO invests in projects that contribute to GHG removals and storage, including forestry, and aims to grow forestry investments. The significant operational expenditures (OpEx) in the form of internal and external staff required for the implementation of the decarbonization levers are provided in section 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies', since they are aggregated for the implementation of the Climate Action Plan. The Climate Action Plan includes actions on both climate mitigation and adaptation. There are no material capital expenditures (CapEx) in the form of investments in FMO's own operations associated with the transition plan, as explained further below and in the section 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. FMO has no key (physical) assets in its own operations that materially contribute to climate change, nor do we sell any direct-use products. As such, no carbon lock-ins are expected to occur in the own operations of FMO under the definition provided in ESRS E1. In relation to the application of the lock-in definition for investments in the investment portfolio, as of today FMO does not have a definition of carbon lock-ins related to investments. FMO may have carbon- 139 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"intensive assets in its current portfolio, for example, via indirect investments through financial intermediaries in the Financial Institutions portfolio. However, mechanisms are in place to mitigate this risk in the investment portfolio. In this regard, a distinction between new and legacy investments should be made: 1. For new investments: The Combined Position Statement on Coal and Phasing Out Fossil Fuels excludes and screens out investments that are expected to have a high risk for future carbon lock in. FMO will use the Paris Alignment (PA) methodology to screen potential investments for alignment with the Paris Agreement. See section 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies' for more background on the PA methodology. 2. While there may be carbon-intensive assets locked in, in the current portfolio, the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target applies to both new and existing investments, thereby ensuring that the total emissions from investments in power generation will be reduced by 50 percent in 2030. See section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation' for more information on the Power Generation target. In its current form, the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178, also known as the EU Taxonomy, is applicable for European economic activities. Since FMO invests outside Europe and entities based outside the EU are excluded from the numerator of the Green Asset Ratio (GAR), FMO reports a GAR of 0 percent. This implies that no key performance indicators from the EU Taxonomy can be linked to the resources required for the implementation of the actions described. More information is included in the 'EU Taxonomy' section. Based on FMO’s interpretation of as investments in physical assets in scope 1 and 2 of an organization, there is no CapEx to be identified as material for FMO. As a financial institution, FMO does not do climate-related investments in physical assets in its own operations that can be considered material (see 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment'). FMO is awaiting guidelines or sector standards specifically for financial institutions for possible adaptation of the CapEx definition to financial institutions. FMO is not excluded from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks. The decarbonization levers presented are based on FMO’s 2030 Strategy and the CAP, i.e. the aims and actions described are embedded in FMO’s strategy. This is explained in more detail in the chapter on 'E1 Impact, risks, opportunities'. Details on the progress of each of the decarbonization levers are provided in 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies'. Details on the targets that are part of the decarbonization levers (e.g. the Power Generation Emissions Reduction target and €10 billion SDG 13 target) are provided in 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. The 2030 Strategy was approved by the Supervisory Board in 2022. The CAP was approved by the Management Board in 2022. E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Our material IROs related to climate change are covered in the following two policies. 1. Sustainability Policy 2. Climate Risk Policy In the following sections, these policies are described in further detail. FMO’s commitments and actions on climate are described in the CAP and reported in 'E1-3 Actions'. All policies are subject to frequent revisions as per the Bank Risk Policy and are continuously evolving. Sustainability Policy FMO’s sustainability policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts and is described in more detail in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The Sustainability Policy encompasses FMO’s organizational activities, including energy consumption, resource utilization, travel practices, and new investments, addressing all products offered by FMO. As such, our Sustainability Policy covers how we manage the 140 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"climate-related impacts throughout our value chain. The Sustainability Policy is complemented by several position statements and an exclusion list. For climate change the most noteworthy include: Our Combined Position Statement on Coal and Position Statement on Phasing Out Fossil Fuels from our Investments reflects our approach to phasing out fossil fuels from our portfolio, both direct and indirect. Our Position Statement on Hydro Power Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical and E&S impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. Our Position Statement on Impact and ESG for financial intermediaries outlines FMO’s structural approach to impact steering and ESG management in financial intermediary financing, including restricting our financial intermediary portfolio exposure to coal activities, and promoting and advising on green credit lines or green bonds that support climate action. Our exclusion list contains the activities, products, uses, distribution, business or trade that FMO and the borrower will not finance, extending to the borrowers’ shareholders, their affiliates and their subsidiaries. Additional major documents and processes that explain how material climate positive and negative impacts are managed are: The Paris alignment methodology, which describes our methodology for checking our new investments for alignment with the Paris goals, thereby helping our clients with the transition to become Paris aligned. ESG in the investment process: While the Sustainability Policy explains FMO’s ESG management process, this is operationalized via different internal documents such as the Risk Appetite Framework, Investment Criteria, and SIS manual. The Green Label Guidelines are used to assess eligibility of new investments for a ‘Green Label’. A Green Label is assigned based on the ex-ante potential of an investment in terms of its positive impact on our portfolio, including for instance the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing resource efficiency, preserving and growing natural capital, and/or supporting climate adaptation. The label is not intended to monitor (ex post) impact. The Green Label thereby serves as a strategic steering tool and a proxy for FMO to measure progress against its €10 billion SDG 13 2030 target. In relation to the upstream value chain, an additional relevant document is the Sustainability Bonds Framework, which addresses the four key pillars of the ICMA ESG Bond Principles. The framework explains how FMO attracts private or public funds by issuing sustainable or green bonds in the capital market. Moreover, FMO aims to mobilize public and private capital and to create new bankable opportunities, as described in our 2030 Strategy. Climate Risk Policy The Climate Risk Policy covers our climate-related risks in the entire value chain. Complementing this policy, the climate risk methodology explains how we identify the physical and transition risks associated with climate change. All policies are subject to frequent revisions as per the Bank Risk Policy and are therefore continuously evolving. The Climate Risk Policy aims to: 1. Define climate risk in terms of physical and transition risk drivers. 2. Introduce the approach used to identify climate risks in all FMO’s operations, products, and services. 3. Define the roles and responsibilities related to climate risk identification, assessment, and action. 141 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Table 15. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for Climate Risk Policy Scope of policy The policy applies to the FMO-A portfolio (both on and off-balance sheet) and to FMO-managed government funds. It has a specific focus on assessing and managing climate risks related to FMO's loan and equity investments. In 2025, the scope and name of the policy will be expanded from a climate risk policy to a climate- related and environmental financial risk policy. Accountable body The document is approved by the FRC after consultation via the ISCO and owned by Risk. Implementation is currently managed via an internal project and related implementation oversight is performed by the Steering Committee of the project. Third-party standards/ initiatives (if relevant) The document was developed in the light of the ECB Guide on climate-related and environmental risks. Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) No key external stakeholders were consulted upfront in this process, but the policy has been shared with DNB for information afterwards. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) This is an internal policy and the document is therefore not publicly available. With regards to climate change mitigation, FMO manages material IROs through several processes. Most importantly, through our Green Label guidelines, with which we aim for our portfolio to materially contribute to climate mitigation, reduction of GHG emissions and/or increasing sequestration of GHG emissions from the atmosphere (along with adaptation and energy efficiency, as described below). FMO’s Green Label definition is based on the Common Principles for Climate Mitigation Finance Tracking, as defined by the Multilateral Development Banks. All Green-labelled investments should meet FMO’s Green Principles, namely that Green-labelled investments contribute to a genuine improvement and should not contribute to a long-term lock-in of high carbon infrastructure. A genuine improvement implies that 1) the improvement goes beyond the local regulatory requirements 2) the improvement is unrelated to local resources stress and 3) the improvement is sustainable throughout the value chain of an industry or a business. The implementation of our Paris Alignment methodology will contribute to further aligning our new investments to the Paris Agreement. Furthermore, as per our combined Position Statement on Coal and Phasing Out Fossil Fuels, FMO will not invest in any upstream coal mining activities, transportation of coal, construction or renovation of a coal producing plant, or other associated business or infrastructure. Other fossil fuels are only invested in the exceptional case that a transition phase is deemed necessary to improve a country’s energy accessibility. The combined position statement applies to both direct and indirect investments of FMO. The SBF sets out a list of climate change mitigation activities eligible for the sustainability bonds issued. The Climate Risk Policy includes components such as knowledge and awareness development, embedding climate risk in the organization's strategy, governance, risk appetite determination, policy adjustments, stress testing, climate risk assessment methodology development, and internal and external reporting. FMO manages its knowledge components and supports customers primarily via technical assistance. Investment teams are responsible for assessing climate risks and it is at their discretion to discuss the outcomes with clients. The Risk department maintains the methodology and supports knowledge development across the organization. Besides climate mitigation, FMO also aims to contribute to climate adaptation. Most notably, we do this through our Green Label, through which we label those investments that ex ante are expected to positively contribute to climate adaptation. For a customer or an activity to be eligible for a Green Label in this category, it needs to be assessed to meet the climate adaptation principles set by the IFC-MDB joint methodology for climate change adaptation. This means that climate change adaptation is defined as achieving climate resilience outcomes in response to relevant climate change impacts, by managing or reducing physical climate risks, reducing the underlying causes of vulnerability and avoiding maladaptation. 142 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Our Paris Alignment methodology further aims to ensure a minimum level of resilience for Paris alignment. Our physical Climate Risk Assessment underpins our climate adaptation label analysis. The SBF sets out a list of climate change adaptation activities eligible for the sustainability bonds. Following the EDFI Statement on Climate and Energy Finance and as part of our Climate Action Plan, FMO aims to finance initiatives that contribute to adaptation and resilience to climate change, especially in respect of vulnerable communities and natural ecosystems. Improving energy efficiency is one of the ways by which FMO strives to remain climate neutral in all its operational activities. FMO looks to build-up a portfolio that is targeted at improving access to basic services, such as energy, and aiming to optimally use scarce resources. Energy efficiency is seen as a form of climate change mitigation when assessing activities according to the Green Label Guidelines: at least 20 percent reduction in energy consumption or GHG emissions is required for it to comply with that category. Through our E&S practices, we apply IFC PS3: Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, which is specific for water and pollution (e.g. air, noise, water) related impacts and for opportunities on efficiencies (e.g. energy or water). This also involves the issuance of sustainability bonds used to finance renewable energy and improve energy. Regarding renewable energy deployment, following the EDFI Statement on Climate and Energy Finance, our Sustainability Policy states that FMO is committed to increase its share of investment that contributes to low-carbon, reliable and affordable energy. As described previously, through our Green Label and Position Statements, we aim to increase our portfolio’s share of contribution to renewable energy deployment and avoid investments in non-renewables respectively. Also, investing in renewable energy is central to our Energy sector strategy, which is one of the three core sectors in which FMO invests. Finally, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments in biodiversity and forestry, to remove carbon and increase resilience. For further information please refer to 'E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems'. E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies The three main actions to operationalize FMO’s 2030 Strategy in relation to climate are as follows: 1. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. 2. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. 3. Active management of our climate action. Details regarding these actions are described in the following sections. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals This action consists of the following sub-actions: 1. Reduce emissions in our investments, so that in 2050 our portfolio’s aggregate absolute emissions, when added with our carbon removal investments’ negative emissions, result in net zero emissions. We will strive to align the overall portfolio emission reductions with aggregate country- and sector- specific 1.5oC emission reduction pathways, taking into account a just and inclusive transition. At FMO we recognize that a starting point for Paris alignment are the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and National Adaptation Plans, and while we will seek to align our investments with these plans, we also seek to raise the ambition level of our customers and strive toward 1.5oC pathway alignment. 143 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"2. Reduce power generation portfolio emissions by 50 percent to 2030, while at the same time approximately doubling our sustainable power generation portfolio and overall energy portfolio. We will consider additional targets in other parts of the portfolio. 3. Assess new investments for Paris alignment from a climate mitigation and resilience perspective, by implementing an investment-level Paris alignment assessment for new transactions. 4. Implement our commitment under the EDFI Climate and Energy Statement regarding fossil fuels in our indirect investments, and consider other policies that support our goals. FMO has a dedicated project allocated to the implementation of this action. Since 2023, FMO has a dedicated workstream focused on developing a Paris alignment methodology and further developing our in-house capacity. In 2024 FMO finalized its Paris alignment methodology, based on the MDB Principles for Paris Alignment. This methodology will be used to assess new investments for Paris alignment from a mitigation and resilience perspective and was piloted in 2024 based on which the methodology was further refined and finalized. The Paris alignment assessment methodology will be rolled out in the coming period and once ready, will be used to assess new transactions. Additionally, FMO will work further towards an approach for striving towards 1.5-degree alignment and develop climate mitigation KPIs for progress measurement. The overall action can be classified as a decarbonization lever, since the sub-actions will reduce emissions in FMO's investment portfolio, thereby mitigating climate change. The target of reducing power generation emissions by 50 percent in 2030 is part of this action. This target – together with performance on expected and achieved GHG reductions - is elaborated in section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers This action is made of by the following sub-actions: 1. Building up a portfolio of at least €10 billion dedicated to SDG 13 goals in climate mitigation, adaptation & resilience (including nature-based solutions), biodiversity, and other footprint reduction. We do this by engaging with customers such as our financial institutions to encourage their further investments in these objectives, through activities that contribute to developing our markets (market creation), and by mobilizing additional capital to closing the financing gap needed in emerging markets. 2. Increasing our climate mitigating investments and investments that contribute to solutions for adaptation, resilience and biodiversity, thereby strengthening our customers’ resilience to climate change. Examples of what this entails, include: Corporate governance advisory work focused on climate governance and climate risk, building on the work we have done in this area to date. Technical assistance funding, building on platforms like our Green Finance Framework. Engagement with portfolio companies and new customers to influence them to set targets and transition plans to reduce their emissions over time, or at a minimum to consider technical solutions together. Supporting green finance innovation in our investments. Active shareholdership by ensuring our investees are prepared for both climate risks and opportunities. Creating coalitions with key nature conservation organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, and promoting community and stakeholder engagement. 3. Provide sector-specific solutions for energy, financial institutions, and agriculture and forestry. Regarding energy, FMO will continue financing utility scale clean energy generation projects (solar, wind both on- and offshore, hydro power and geothermal), with an increased attention towards the least developed countries (LDCs) and fragile states. These efforts will be an important driver behind our climate mitigation and resilience goals. Towards 2030, through sector initiatives, partner engagement, and other means, we will work to remove bottlenecks currently slowing down the sustainable energy transition in some of our markets. We will also work toward sustainable energy access and inclusion, while further scaling both already established / proven and innovative technologies and solutions. 144 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"For financial institutions, FMO will increasingly aim to have a ‘transformative’ impact on customers through a strategic approach including the development of product propositions, capabilities, and related financing with the goal of having the same effect on end beneficiaries. Finally, regarding agriculture and forestry, our focus will remain on strengthening local agricultural and food supply chains for both local or regional markets to increase local production and reduce reliance on imports, to improve local access to nutritious food, and to reduce food waste (e.g. through more and improved storage and distribution). We continue our focus on decent work and economic inclusion of the bottom 40 percent of income distribution, including smallholder farmers and women. Towards 2030, emphasis will be on engagement and investing more in global merchants, input providers and food companies with leverage to increase sustainable practices, along the (international) agricultural supply chains. We will continue expanding our integral/ landscape approach to supporting and investing in sustainable land-use and ecosystem protection and restoration, among others, through our work on forestry (carbon sequestration), climate smart and regenerative agriculture, soil improvements and livelihoods. 4. Continue to invest in carbon removals, specifically forestry, and help build these markets. More details on this are provided in the section 'E1-7 GHG Removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits'. 5. Contribute to our impact portfolio growth objectives through our market creation efforts and scale our activities through our mobilization efforts. In order to advance our impact contributions (including for climate action), through ‘market creation’ we aim to develop unbankable opportunities into bankable projects, as well as drive topics and business models of the future. We aim to accelerate impact by upscaling mobilization of private and public capital by aiming to double this portfolio by 2030 through: Developing climate fund propositions for large scale mobilization, following a just and inclusive transition approach, targeting both climate impact and social impact. Blending public and commercial funding for high-impact propositions in LDCs. Exploring possibilities for equity mobilization. Strengthening syndication efforts by increasing sourcing capacity of transactions, and by expanding and diversifying our investor base. 6. Engaging with our customers to increase their Paris alignment and provide them with technical assistance and other support. This will include helping to develop climate governance and climate risk frameworks and tools to work with their clients. We will specifically start with pan-regional customers as agents of change, gradually expanding to all customers over time. FMO’s Green Label Methodology was updated in 2023 by the Sustainability Strategy and Policy team (established in 2023), following updated Multilateral Development Banks common principles for climate mitigation finance tracking. FMO has also established a Sustainable Finance Advisory team to support investment teams with Green deal origination. This team reached its full size at the end of 2023 and initiated work with the sectors in 2024. On advancing sector-specific solutions for energy, financial institutions, and agriculture and forestry, in 2024, FMO developed a climate framework for Technical Assistance (TA) to the Private Equity and Agribusiness, Food and Water sectors. Through the climate framework, FMO is able to offer customers in the Private Equity and Agribusiness, Food and Water sectors TA on climate adaptation and mitigation. This includes climate awareness training, climate risk assessments, GHG measurement and reporting, climate action planning and implementation, climate opportunity origination, and compliance with sustainability standards. As part of our ambition to continue to invest in carbon removals, specifically forestry, and help build these markets, FMO has investment officers specialized in forestry in various investment teams. Under market creation, FMO has defined four focus themes: financial inclusion and resilience for entrepreneurs, responsible energy transition, forestry and sustainable land-use, and food system transformation. In 2024, we worked in particular on operationalizing and building out the financial inclusion theme. 145 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"The overall action can be classified as a decarbonization lever, since it will contribute to reducing emissions, thereby mitigating climate change. However, no GHG emission reduction target is linked to this action. Active management of our climate action This action is comprised of a set of sub-actions: 1. Monitor our work at a portfolio level, including absolute and relative emission levels. In order to achieve the impact we aim for, having the right data and additional information needed for measuring and steering our work will be key. 2. Continue to improve data quality and collection, including at the level of our customers. Data collection in our markets and for our specific customer types is not always readily available, especially for investments in smaller companies and for financial institutions and funds, which need to obtain data from their clients. To tackle this challenge, together with our development finance institution partners, we launched the Joint Impact Model (JIM) in 2021. The JIM allows us to model the emissions in the absence of emission data, to have an indication of our portfolio emissions. 3. Adopt an adaptive management approach and adjust our actions based on data and information. The intent of our data/information collection drive is to not only use the information we gather to report and for compliance purposes, but to also better actively manage our portfolio and tailor our climate actions to what is most effective. Moving forward, we will continue to work on improving our systems. 4. Implement a climate risk framework to manage the portfolio for both physical and transition climate risk. Integrating climate risk at FMO is about ensuring that risks to our portfolio due to climate change (physical and transition risks) are structurally identified, assessed, and managed. It is also about bringing this knowledge to our customers and structuring our transactions with the same considerations. Ultimately managing climate risk is another way to drive the change we want to see in our markets. The implementation of this action is mainly covered via a project. In 2024, FMO made progress in developing transition and physical risk assessment methodologies for assessing climate risk. Physical risk assessment tooling is currently implemented for all sectors. Furthermore, FMO established a climate risk policy as well as a quarterly portfolio scan as part of the climate risk framework. FMO also continued work on improving data quality and collection. For the first time, FMO reported the PCAF score for the tracking of emissions data quality. FMO will further work on transition risk assessment and improving data quality and management. FMO will also aim to refine emissions data to better take into account known use-of-proceeds instruments, i.e., when the investment is allocated to specific assets of a customer. While this action aims to enhance FMO’s management of climate actions, such as creating more awareness via enhanced data and methodologies, the overall action cannot be classified as a decarbonization lever since it does not directly contribute to GHG reduction. Table 16. Minimum Disclosure Requirement applicable for all presented actions Scope of actions The actions apply to FMO's value chain, with a focus on the downstream value chain. No actions regarding FMO's own operations are included, as these were found to be not material in the DMA. Time horizon The actions are formulated for the period until 2030, in line with our Strategy. Actions taken to provide for and cooperate in or support the provision of remedy (if applicable) N/A Progress of actions disclosed in prior periods As this is the first year we report within the structure of the ESRS, we do not report progress on actions from prior periods. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. Operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) (if required) No significant operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) related to implementing actions. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. 146 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As explained in section 'E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation', no key performance indicators from the EU Taxonomy can be linked to the resources required for the implementation of the actions described. More information is provided in the 'EU Taxonomy' section. E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation FMO has two targets related to the Policies and Actions described in the sections 'E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation' and 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies' respectively. Table 14 presented in the 'E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities' section shows which target relates to which IRO, policy and/or action. The table, therefore, indicates for each action whether there is a related target, thereby specifying whether and how the effectiveness of these actions are quantitatively tracked. Firstly, a GHG emission reduction target has been set in the form of the Power Generation Emission Reduction target. The target is set to reduce the financed scope 1 emissions in the power generation portfolio by 50 percent in 2030. Given the baseline value of 624 ktCO2e, this would imply an absolute reduction of 312 ktCO2e. This target will specifically contribute to reducing the financed absolute GHG emissions, i.e. the GHG emissions in scope 3 category 15 (Investments). The target has the same reporting boundary as the financed absolute GHG emissions. In 2024, the power generation portfolio emissions are 442 ktCO e, which is 42 percent of the financed scope 1 emissions and 8 percent of total financed absolute GHG emissions. In line with the ‘Financial Sector Climate Commitment Guideline on relevant financing, investments and action plans’ FMO has prioritized target setting for its power generation portfolio, being an emission-intensive sector. Secondly, a strategic target has been set in the form of the €10 billion SDG 13 target. FMO aims to have developed a portfolio of at least €10 billion in investments dedicated to SDG 13 goals by 2030. An ex- ante assessment is made to assess an investment’s potential impact and its related contribution to SDG 13, determining eligibility to receive the Green Label. The Green Label includes positive impact contributions to for instance climate change mitigation and adaptation and biodiversity. While it is no direct emission reduction target, the Green Label as a tool to steer towards FMO’s €10 billion SDG 13 target will contribute to reduced emissions in FMO’s investments portfolio and overall positive impact to SDG 13. Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. Since the Power Emission Reduction Target is the only target related to GHG emission reduction, disclosures requirements focusing on emission reductions are only applicable to this target. Table 14 in the 'E1 Impact, risks and opportunities' section indicates to which IRO the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target and the €10 billion SDG 13 target relates to. Table 17 provides information on the Power Generation Emission Reduction target, whereas the relevant details for the €10 billion SDG 13 target are presented in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Table 17. Minimum Disclosure Requirement for Power Generation Emission Reduction Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) 50 percent emission reduction in FMO's financed Scope 1 power generation emissions by 2030. Scope of target The power generation target GHG emissions include active investments that have production of electricity (NACE code 35.11) as their main economic activity. They are calculated based on customers’ Scope 1 emissions, attributed in line with the PCAF Global Standard. The outstanding amounts include FMO-A, public funds and mobilized capital. Baseline value 624 ktCO2e Baseline year 2021 Application period 2021 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets None 2 147 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Methodologies and assumptions The target is based on a calculated 1.5oC pathway provided by the REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4 database, using the Orderly - net zero 2050 scenario for electricity. This scenario is broken down by region, and country income level (upper middle income, lower middle income, low income using World Bank categorization) within regions, using our best estimate of proxies where there is no perfect match. The REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4 database is a scenario of the NGFS, which has as its goal meeting the goals of the Paris agreement. REMIND-MAgPIE is a comprehensive Integrated Assessment Model that simulates the dynamics within and between the energy, land use, water, air pollution and health, economy, and climate systems. It has been assumed that the portfolio distribution at country-income level will remain constant up to 2030 compared to 2021. Moreover, power production growth projections are based on 2030 Strategy projections, including direct mobilized funds (average of ~8.0 percent p.a. between 2021-2030). Thereafter, a projection of 4 percent per year is used. For renewable energy customers without reported emissions data, the assumption is made that their scope 1 emissions are zero. Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) The REMIND-MagPIE scenario is based on the SSP2 scenario defined by the IPCC. Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the CAP, and while taking into consideration the expectations following FMO’s commitment to the Financial Sector commitment to the Dutch Climate Agreement. The CAP was discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting. Changes in target We include only scope 1 emissions, as this is the primary emission driver of power generation plants. For renewable energy customers without reported emissions data, the assumption is made that their scope 1 emissions are zero. In order to compare performance year-on-year, data is aligned according to reporting year to the extent possible. Given that this annual report is published in early 2025, not all 2024 customer data (e.g. emissions data) was available. As a result, the reported 2024 power generation emissions combines 2023 customer emissions data with 2024 portfolio data from FMO (e.g. outstanding amounts). The 2024 number will be finalized in next year’s annual report. The 2023 power generation emissions are, in principle, finalized in this annual report with a value of 510 ktCO2e, based on 2023 portfolio data and 2023 customer data. The baseline for the power generation target is restated in this Annual Report in line with the recalculation approach. The new baseline number is 624 ktCO2e (previous value was 582 ktCO2e). The reason is that emission factors were updated in an internal calculation tool. In order to ensure consistency between baseline and later years, emissions data for 2021 and 2022 was retroactively adjusted for customers where the tool was used – note the tool is not used if customers directly reported emissions. Performance The power generation target GHG emissions were 442 ktCO e in 2024, which is a 29 percent reduction compared to the 2021 baseline. The reduction is due to an overall decrease of our outstanding exposure in operational fossil fuel plants. FMO has set a GHG emission reduction target for financed scope 1 emissions in the power generation portfolio, as described in E1-4. While FMO aims to be net zero by 2050, FMO has not yet set other reduction targets for financed scope 1, 2 and 3, therefore no information and data can be provided regarding such targets. This is due to the many unknowns ahead including how climate change itself will evolve, how our markets and customers will respond, lack of data and what solutions are needed and effective. We seek to carefully balance our climate objectives with customer- or location-specific social and environmental considerations, including the need for a just and inclusive transition. FMO will focus in the short-term on striving to align financial flows with 1.5oC aligned activities and is working on an approach to measure this. FMO will consider setting additional targets to further align financial flows. We will continue to improve our data collection, including at the level of our customers, and use it to assess and monitor our progress, as a component of our climate action project workstream. The progress made regarding the Power Generation Reduction Emission Target has been disclosed in table 17. The baseline value is considered representative as there are no indications that for the power generation portfolio the activities covered and influences from external factors in the base year were significantly different to other years. Table 17 provides information on the scientific base used to define the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target. Since no other targets for GHG emission reduction exist, no other progress can be disclosed, nor can information be provided on how it has been ensured that the baseline value of such targets is representative in terms of activities covered and influences from external factors. 2 148 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"The decarbonization levers of FMO are defined in the section ' E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation'. The Power Generation Emission Reduction target is part of the lever ‘Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals’. Refer to table 17 for information on the quantitative contribution to GHG emission reduction and the definition of the target, for which one scenario has been used. The €10 billion SDG 13 target is part of the decarbonization lever ‘Increasing climate investments and support to our customers’, supporting mitigation of and adaptation to climate change. Because of the nature of this target, no quantitative contribution to GHG emission reduction can be provided for this target. More details on how the decarbonization levers and targets relate is provided in table 14 in the 'E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities' section. E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Table 18 provides the previous year and the reporting period's emissions. The previous year emissions were restated in line with our recalculation approach. The previously reported value for the total financed GHG absolute emissions (8,403 ktCO2e) was recalculated to 5,468 ktCO2e. The decrease is mainly due to the use of a new JIM version (3.1.6), which includes updated economic emissions factors based on an updated GTAP database. Compared to the restated previous year emissions, total GHG emissions increased in the reporting period mainly due to an extended methodological coverage for scope 3 category 15 GHG emissions (i.e. sector breakdown adjustments). For more details, please refer to the ‘FMO methodology for reporting financed GHG emissions and jobs’, available on FMO’s website. Even though emissions in scope 1 and 2 from FMO’s own operations were found not to be material, these have been added for completeness and consistency with previously reported emissions. Milestones and targets have not been defined and are therefore left blank. FMO did set a target to reduce emissions in its power generation portfolio, which is described in section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. The excluded scope 3 categories are indicated in the following table with ‘N/A’. These categories are excluded because they are not expected to be material for FMO. The upstream scope 3 categories 1-5 are not relevant as they only pertain to goods and serviced purchased for FMO’s one office building, scope 3 category 8 is not applicable as upstream leased assets (e.g. vehicles and building) are included under Scope 1 and 2, and the downstream scope 3 categories 9-14 are not applicable because FMO’s operations do not include sold physical products, downstream leased assets or franchises. Table 18. Overview of total GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year Comparative (N-1) N % N / N-1 2025 2030 -2050 Annual % target / Base year Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (ktCO2eq) 0.08 0.06 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 0 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (ktCO2eq) 0.43 0.52 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (ktCO2eq) 0.03 0.03 Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (ktCO2eq) 5,473 5,861 1. Purchased goods and services N/A N/A 2. Capital goods N/A N/A 3. Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) N/A N/A 4. Upstream transportation and distribution N/A N/A 5. Waste generated in operations N/A N/A 6. Business traveling 4.84 5.26 149 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"7. Employee commuting 0.84 0.52 8. Upstream leased assets N/A N/A 9. Downstream transportation N/A N/A 10 Processing of sold products N/A N/A 11. Use of sold products N/A N/A 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A N/A 13. Downstream leased assets N/A N/A 14. Franchises N/A N/A 15. Investments 5,467 5,855 Total GHG emissions (location-based) (ktCO2eq) 5,473 5,861 Total GHG emissions (market-based) (ktCO2eq) 5,473 5,861 The scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are calculated for the consolidated accounting group using the operational control approach. FMO does not have operational control over any investees that are not fully consolidated in the financial statements, such as associates, joint ventures and unconsolidated subsidiaries, and therefore exposures towards these entities are reported under scope 3 category 15. The following graph shows the financed absolute emissions under scope 3 category 15 per strategic sector and emissions scope. Figure 3. Financed absolute GHG emissions under scope 3 category 15 per strategic sector (in ktCO e) Table 19a shows the total overview of financed emissions under scope 3 category 15. Table 19b disaggregates the financed emissions under scope 3 category 15 per strategic sector, funding source, product and emissions scope. Table 19a. Overview of financed absolute emissions under scope 3 category 15 (totals) Financed emissions ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score Scope 1 1,042.5 96.6 99.5% 52.6% 3.5 Scope 2 337.1 31.4 98.8% 15.1% 3.5 Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 1,379.5 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services 1,508.0 140.7 98.9% 12.1% 3.7 Scope 3 - Investments 2,967.4 527.8 98.3% 6.5% 4.6 Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 5,854.9 2 150 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
". Table 19b. Overview of financed emissions under scope 3 category 15 per strategic sector, funding source, product and emissions scope Financed emissions*** AFW AFW AFW AFW AFW EN EN EN EN EN FI FI FI FI FI DIV DIV DIV DIV DIV Source* Product Scope ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score ktCO2e ktCO2/ BN EUR % coverage % primary DQ score Scope 1 FMO- A** Debt 146.6 144.8 100.0% 33.9% 3.3 326.2 216.8 98.5% 94.3% 3.7 30.8 9.7 100.0% 1.7% 3.5 14.2 64.4 100.0% 28.3% 3.6 Scope 1 FMO- A** Equity 41.5 267.3 100.0% 3.7% 3.4 132.4 385.5 99.8% 61.6% 3.3 7.1 7.6 100.0% 0.7% 3.7 145.4 154.4 98.4% 11.6% 3.5 Scope 1 PF Debt 28.8 139.1 100.0% 18.4% 3.2 19.9 130.1 100.0% 0.5% 4.2 9.7 56.5 100.0% 0.3% 4.2 6.8 858.8 100.0% 26.5% 3.4 Scope 1 PF Equity 6.9 161.4 100.0% 21.9% 3.0 7.6 84.5 95.8% 93.3% 4.0 4.9 22.3 100.0% 1.8% 3.3 22.3 148.8 99.6% 0.6% 4.3 Scope 1 MOB Debt 40.0 125.0 100.0% 49.7% 2.9 50.0 167.2 100.0% 99.5% 3.7 0.8 0.9 100.0% 43.7% 3.0 0.6 207.6 100.0% 100.0% 2.0 Scope 1 MOB Equity 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 1 Total Total 263.7 151.8 100.0% 29.5% 3.2 536.1 224.3 98.9% 83.2% 3.7 53.4 10.0 100.0% 1.9% 3.5 189.3 143.1 98.9% 12.4% 3.6 Scope 2 FMO- A** Debt 92.6 91.5 100.0% 6.6% 3.4 36.8 25.0 96.2% 5.2% 3.9 36.5 11.5 100.0% 2.2% 3.5 12.0 54.7 100.0% 23.0% 3.7 Scope 2 FMO- A** Equity 7.0 45.1 100.0% 4.4% 3.8 7.7 22.5 99.7% 34.5% 3.4 12.3 13.2 100.0% 0.3% 3.7 73.3 78.8 97.6% 23.8% 3.5 Scope 2 PF Debt 10.6 51.5 100.0% 56.8% 3.2 2.4 15.7 100.0% 1.1% 4.2 3.2 18.6 100.0% 1.9% 4.2 0.2 28.1 100.0% 2.8% 3.4 Scope 2 PF Equity 0.9 20.1 100.0% 36.7% 3.1 0.4 6.6 90.4% 13.1% 4.0 3.5 15.8 100.0% 2.0% 3.2 3.5 23.4 99.0% 4.4% 4.3 Scope 2 MOB Debt 21.3 66.7 100.0% 40.5% 3.0 6.7 22.5 98.0% 45.0% 3.7 5.9 7.1 100.0% 5.5% 3.0 0.1 33.9 100.0% 100.0% 2.0 Scope 2 MOB Equity 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 2 Total Total 132.4 76.2 100.0% 16.2% 3.3 54.0 23.2 97.1% 14.2% 3.8 61.4 11.5 100.0% 2.1% 3.5 89.2 68.0 98.2% 22.9% 3.6 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services FMO- A** Debt 474.7 468.9 100.0% 14.6% 3.7 221.8 150.6 96.2% 0.0% 4.0 98.6 31.0 100.0% 0.8% 3.6 24.5 111.3 100.0% 0.0% 4.2 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services FMO- A** Equity 41.4 266.6 100.0% 0.9% 4.1 40.0 117.1 99.7% 0.9% 3.5 30.5 32.5 100.0% 0.1% 3.7 195.0 209.4 98.3% 6.6% 3.9 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services PF Debt 53.2 257.6 100.0% 1.9% 3.9 27.3 178.3 100.0% 23.1% 4.2 13.8 79.7 100.0% 3.0% 4.2 1.2 149.1 100.0% 0.6% 3.4 151 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services PF Equity 4.1 113.4 99.3% 15.8% 3.5 9.9 146.4 90.4% 0.0% 4.2 20.7 94.0 100.0% 1.3% 3.2 32.7 218.3 99.0% 11.3% 4.3 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services MOB Debt 172.7 539.7 100.0% 49.9% 3.6 30.2 101.2 98.0% 0.1% 3.9 14.7 17.8 100.0% 6.8% 3.1 1.2 418.6 100.0% 0.0% 4.0 Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services MOB Equity 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 3 - Purchased goods and services Total Total 746.1 431.1 99.9% 21.1% 3.8 329.1 141.1 97.1% 2.0% 3.9 178.3 33.4 100.0% 1.4% 3.6 254.5 194.0 98.7% 6.5% 4.0 Scope 3 - Investments FMO- A** Debt 10.5 200.0 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 1,605.3 522.1 97.3% 7.8% 4.5 0.1 109.1 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 Scope 3 - Investments FMO- A** Equity 0.0 0.0 100.0% N/A 5.0 4.0 436.6 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 493.8 536.8 100.0% 1.4% 4.9 38.6 141.8 99.0% 0.0% 5.0 Scope 3 - Investments PF Debt 0.1 20.7 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 100.8 699.4 94.1% 1.7% 4.8 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 3 - Investments PF Equity 0.0 0.8 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 0.0 0.3 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 255.1 1,187.8 97.0% 0.7% 4.9 12.4 175.5 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 Scope 3 - Investments MOB Debt 6.3 292.8 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 440.3 531.8 100.0% 12.8% 3.9 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 3 - Investments MOB Equity 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0 N/A N/A N/A N/A Scope 3 - Investments Total Total 16.9 193.9 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 4.0 433.4 100.0% 0.0% 5.0 2,895.3 558.8 98.0% 6.7% 4.5 51.1 148.6 99.3% 0.0% 5.0 * FMO-A = FMO consolidated; PF = public funds; MOB - direct mobilized funds ** The scope of consolidation for the sustainability statement is equal to the scope of consolidation for the financial statements. For blended finance programs like DFCD, LUF & FMO Ventures, we disaggregate scope 3 category 15 emissions according to the funding source. *** AFW = Agribusiness, Food & Water, EN = Energy, FI = Financial Institutions, DIV = Diverse sectors 152 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"No significant changes have taken place in the definition of what constitutes the reporting undertaking and its value chain. The financed emission calculations have benefitted from data improvements and methodological refinements compared to the previous Annual Report. The adjustments are elaborated upon in the FMO methodology for reporting financed GHG emissions and jobs, which is available on FMO’s website. FMO follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard to report its GHG emissions scopes 1, 2 and 3. The absolute GHG emissions from FMO’s own operations are calculated based on measured data collected internally, such as information on commuting and flights and heating consumption of the FMO office in The Hague. To report on the scope 3 category 15 emissions (i.e. the financed absolute GHG emissions), FMO follows the Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry published by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF).26 The reporting boundary includes the debt and equity portfolio at the time of reporting. The majority of FMO’s financed absolute GHG emissions are estimated through economic modelling using the Joint Impact Model (JIM). For more details, please refer to the FMO methodology for reporting financed GHG emissions and jobs, which is available on FMO’s website. The JIM version used in this sustainability statement has not been externally validated. The upcoming JIM version is undergoing an external validation process, but the planned release of that version was not in time for this report. Emissions are reported for the entire portfolio based on the actual results of the investments using the most recent data available. For the Annual Report 2024, this means that numbers reflect annual results of investments for 2024 to the extent that information is available, and otherwise 2023 (or older) numbers. Emissions are recorded per year. In other words, if the reporting date of the client is 31 March 2024, the data is reported for the year 2024 and similarly for customers where the reporting date is 31 December 2024. When investments are no longer in the portfolio as of 31 December 2024, we no longer include emissions of these customers. Information about the percentage of different contractual instruments within scope 2 is not provided, since scope 2 emissions were found to be non-material by the DMA. The percentage of financed emissions calculated using primary data is disclosed in table 19a and 19b. The tables also include information on the coverage percentage and the PCAF data quality score. Biogenic emissions of CO2 from combustion or bio-degradation of biomass that occur in value chain are included in the gross scope 3 emissions, as data limitations do not allow to disclose these separately. This is the first year that FMO reports on its GHG emissions per net revenue. As such, no comparative value or marginal change is provided in table 20. The net revenue figure was calculated by summing the line items 'Interest income from financial instruments measured at AC', 'Interest income from financial instruments measured at FVPL', 'Dividend income', 'Fee and commission income' and 'Remuneration for services rendered' from the financial statements (see 'Consolidated statement of profit or loss' in the 'Consolidated Financial Statements' chapter). Table 20. GHG intensity per net revenue GHG intensity per net revenue Comparative N % N / N-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/MEUR) N/A 9,294 N/A Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/MEUR) N/A 9,293 N/A 26 PCAF (2022). The Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard Part A: Financed Emissions. Second Edition. 153 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E1-7 GHG Removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits In the downstream value chain, FMO invests in projects that contribute to GHG removals and storage. As per FMO’s 2030 Strategy, Climate Action Plan and Forestry Strategy, we will increase our contribution to GHG removals and storage, by investing more in, for example, forestry and nature-based solutions. For instance, FMO’s Forestry strategy was launched in 2023 and aims to grow investments in forestry, including nature-based solutions, sustainable natural forest management, and greenfield plantations. Projects that contribute to GHG removals and storage are moreover eligible for FMO’s Green Label. FMO does not yet quantitatively report on emission removals through these activities. This is something that is being worked on for future reporting. Even though operational emissions were found to not be material, FMO offsets its operational emissions from business travel by investing in a mix of different carbon credits. In 2024, FMO has offset 5,869 tonnes of CO2eq, using an equal split of VCS Punjab Agroforestry India credits and VCS Pichacay LFG Equador credits. It should be noted that no carbon credits are used to claim emission reductions towards the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target. The offset emissions are also not deducted from the operational emissions reported in section 'E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions'. In other words, we report our gross operational emissions. Within our own value chain, FMO invests in activities that contribute to carbon removals, including forestry investments. Currently, we are choosing to not quantitatively assess the GHG removals through our investment portfolio as we are still waiting on global standards to become clear before deciding on a sequestration tool/methodology. This includes, for example, the GHG Protocol on Land Sector and Removals Guidance (expected Q1 2025) and SBTi FINZ standard (expected Q1 2025). The carbon credits FMO acquires are all retired on a yearly basis. These carbon credits do not originate from FMO's customers and are therefore outside FMO's value chain. FMO plans to keep offsetting its market-based operation emissions by purchasing carbon credits, but there are no contractual agreements for future purchase of carbon credits. FMO has committed to be net-zero by 2050. Our plan is to achieve this by (1) reducing the emission intensity at portfolio and investment levels; and (2) increasing investments in carbon removals (primarily forestry), so that when all carbon equivalent emissions – positive and negative - are aggregated in 2050, our portfolio emissions are ‘net zero’. Pathways regarding these carbon removals are not developed yet, as elaborated on in section 'E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation'. FMO will focus in the short-term on striving to align financial flows with 1.5oC aligned activities and is working on an approach to measure this. FMO will consider setting additional targets on the alignment of financial flows. We will continue to improve our data collection, including at the level of our customers, and use it to assess our progress, as a component of our climate action workstream ahead. FMO strives to remain climate neutral in all its operational activities, through energy efficiency, sustainable energy procurement and compensation through the use of carbon credits. FMO's operational emission neutralization initiative does not affect the set reduction targets because carbon credits or removals do not count as emission reductions. Moreover, FMO's material emissions take place in the downstream value chain. While FMO's operational emissions are not subject to an emission reduction target, they are considered part of its net zero ambition. FMO entity specific metrics – climate change In addition to ESRS-specific metrics on emissions, FMO reports on Green-labelled new investments and financed avoided GHG emissions. Green-labelled new investments The Green Label Guidelines provide criteria and a methodology to assess new investments for their eligibility for FMO’s Green Label. The Green Label is a strategic steering tool and a proxy for us to measure progress against the €10 billion SDG 13 target and includes, but is not limited, to climate 154 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"change. The metric disclosure for Green-labelled total new investments is presented in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Financed avoided GHG emissions Avoided emissions are the reduction in systemic emissions resulting from a project, product, or service compared to a counterfactual scenario. For example, this can be emissions avoided by renewable power production that is assumed to displace fossil fuel-based power plants, or emissions avoided through the protection of forests against illegal logging. The financed avoided GHG emissions metric aims to quantify our contributions to climate change mitigation activities. A significant proportion of avoided emissions was attributable to our debt and equity portfolios in on-grid renewable power projects. While this metric is not defined under the CSRD, financed avoided emissions is a key entity-specific metric for FMO and further defined in Table 21. Table 22 disaggregates the financed avoided emissions per strategic sector, funding source, product and project type. Table 21. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for Metrics for Financed Avoided Emissions Methodology and assumptions GHG avoidance for on-grid renewable power projects is calculated as the annual electricity production during the latest available reporting year, multiplied by the country emission factors in accordance with the International Financial Institution (IFI) harmonized list of emission factors (version 3.2). The financed avoided GHG emissions are reported and attributed in line with the PCAF Global Standard, except we report avoided emissions beyond the renewable power portfolio. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) N/A Unit ktCO2eq 2024 2,134 2023 (restated) 1,940 Restatement of information Unverifiable data was identified for one customer that exceeded the significance threshold by itself. In addition, an error was identified in the data processing whereby the avoided emissions for one customer were omitted. Previously reported figure for 2023 was 2,061 compared with the new figure 1,940. This represents a 6 percent decrease. Table 22. 2024 results on Financed Avoided Emissions AFW*** EN*** FI*** DIV*** Project type Source* Product ktCO2e ktCO2e ktCO2e ktCO2e On-grid renewable power FMO-A** Debt - 834 - 23 On-grid renewable power FMO-A** Equity - 27 - - On-grid renewable power PF Debt - 31 - - On-grid renewable power PF Equity - 5 - - On-grid renewable power MOB Debt - 301 - - On-grid renewable power MOB Equity - - - - On-grid renewable power Total Total - 1,198 - 23 Other FMO-A** Debt 70 52 - - Other FMO-A** Equity - 254 - 112 Other PF Debt 50 279 - - Other PF Equity 1 66 - 7 Other MOB Debt - 22 - - Other MOB Equity - - - - Other Total Total 121 673 - 119 * FMO-A = FMO consolidated; PF = public funds; MOB - direct mobilized funds ** The scope of consolidation for the sustainability statement is equal to the scope of consolidation for the financial statements. For blended finance programs like DFCD LUF & FMO Ventures, we disaggregate financed avoided emissions according to funding source. *** AFW = Agribusiness, Food & Water, EN = Energy, FI = Financial Institutions, DIV = Diverse sectors 155 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 05
"Consolidated statement of financial position For the year ended December 31, 2024 Before profit appropriation Notes 2024 2023 Assets Banks (1) 43,087 49,273 Current accounts with State funds and other programs (2) 1,336 488 Short-term deposits (3) -of which: amortized cost 1,111,886 1,220,359 -of which: fair value through profit or loss 369,481 613,031 Other receivables (4) 18,321 33,677 Interest-bearing securities (5) -of which: amortized cost 481,798 539,708 -of which: fair value through profit or loss 107,596 - Derivative financial instruments (6) 126,339 197,150 Loans to the private sector (7) -of which: amortized cost 5,190,518 4,295,723 -of which: fair value through profit or loss 652,061 587,940 Current tax receivables (31) 13,297 29,634 Wage tax assets 72 - Equity investments (9) -of which: fair value through OCI 201,287 167,074 -of which: fair value through profit or loss 2,355,626 2,193,771 Investments in associates and joint ventures (10) 372,073 308,179 Property, plant and equipment (11) 16,365 19,859 Intangible assets (12) 26,445 15,325 Deferred income tax assets (31) 9,075 11,230 Total assets 11,096,663 10,282,421 Liabilities Short-term credits (13) 216,912 97,114 Current accounts with State funds and other programs (14) 93 43 Derivative financial instruments (6) 471,386 418,839 Other financial liabilities (15) -of which: fair value through profit or loss 121,715 74,003 Debentures and notes (16) 6,335,981 6,060,683 Wage tax liabilities 62 771 Accrued liabilities (17) 38,683 29,498 Other liabilities (18) 18,861 35,821 Provisions (19) 36,780 44,922 Deferred income tax liabilities (31) 510 7,943 Total liabilities 7,240,983 6,769,637 Shareholders’ equity Share capital 9,076 9,076 Share premium reserve 29,272 29,272 Contractual reserve 3,008,465 2,721,823 Development fund 657,981 657,981 Fair value reserve 86,758 65,208 Actuarial result pensions -4,380 -9,670 Translation reserve 31,030 8,092 Other reserves 26,887 28,850 Undistributed result 10,591 2,152 Shareholders’ equity (parent) 3,855,680 3,512,784 Non-controlling interests - - Total shareholders’ equity (20) 3,855,680 3,512,784 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 11,096,663 10,282,421 231 Financial Statements | all amounts stated in tables are in € x 1,000 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Consolidated statement of profit or loss For the year ended December 31, 2024 Notes 2024 2023 Income Interest income from financial instruments measured at AC 514,136 473,938 Interest income from financial instruments measured at FVPL 42,209 58,653 Interest expenses from financial instruments measured at AC -237,423 -170,269 Interest expenses from financial instruments measured at FVPL -92,708 -140,756 Interest expenses on leases -97 -122 Net interest income (21) 226,117 221,444 Dividend income (22) 29,171 34,481 Results from equity investments (23) 138,429 -39,814 Total results from equity investments 167,600 -5,333 Fee and commission income 9,672 7,737 Fee and commission expense -13,726 -14,202 Net fee and commission income (24) -4,054 -6,465 Results from financial transactions (25) 10,604 7,629 Remuneration for services rendered (26) 35,499 31,335 Gains and losses due to derecognition (27) 1,863 2,464 Other operating income (28) - 79 Total other income 47,966 41,507 Total income 437,629 251,153 Operating expenses Staff costs (29) -144,964 -127,460 Administrative expenses (30) -36,541 -39,731 Depreciation and impairment of PP&E and intangible assets (11), (12) -8,618 -9,634 Other operating expenses -572 -775 Total operating expenses -190,695 -177,600 Impairments on Interest-bearing instruments 27 -8 Loans (7), (8) 17,433 -38,622 Loan commitments (34) -164 -1,259 Guarantees issued (34) 8,884 243 Total impairments 26,180 -39,646 Results on associates/joint ventures Share in the result of associates/joint ventures 39,483 26,065 Profit/(loss) before taxation 312,597 59,972 Income tax (31) -15,363 4,950 Net profit/(loss) 297,234 64,922 Net profit/(loss) attributable to Owners of the parent company 297,234 64,922 Non controlling interest - - Net profit/(loss) 297,234 64,922 232 all amounts stated in tables are in € x 1,000 | Financial Statements Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended December 31, 2024 Notes 2024 2023 Net profit/(loss) 297,234 64,922 Other comprehensive income Share of other comprehensive income of associates / joint ventures due to exchange differences 22,938 -9,452 Income tax effect - - Items to be reclassified to profit and loss (32) 22,938 -9,452 Fair value reserve of equity instruments at FVOCI 34,093 16,341 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans (19) 7,129 -4,227 Income tax effect -14,382 -3,126 Items not reclassified to profit and loss 26,840 8,988 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax (32) 49,778 -464 Total comprehensive income 347,012 64,458 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent company 347,012 64,458 Non-controlling interests - - Total comprehensive income 347,012 64,458 233 Financial Statements | all amounts stated in tables are in € x 1,000 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"loans, guarantees, equity and technical assistance to our customers (our financing products), monitoring the portfolio's health (credit risk, impact, customer satisfaction, and compliance), and managing the overall investment lifecycle. Enabling activities to support our core operations include strategy setting, product management, policy and compliance definition, risk management, external reporting, sustainability and impact management, and various corporate functions like IT, finance, procurement as well as human resources as FMO acts as an international employer to the people that work for our organization. We need upstream shareholders and public and private investors to provide capital as well as key partners and key suppliers to support us in our business model. Our upstream value chain activities are, therefore, focused on attracting and mobilizing funds and capital to scale up our development impact. We use public funds to de-risk investments and to be able to attract private capital. We bring in commercial investors through syndicated loans or fund management. Our public investment partners include: the Dutch Government, the UK Government, the EC and the Green Climate Fund (GCF). Mobilization activities include loan syndications, participations by several private debt funds that FMO Investment Management (FMO IM) advises for and through unfunded risk participations by commercial parties such as commercial banks. In addition, we work with suppliers that provide goods and services. We only want to work with trustworthy suppliers and have put in place a due diligence process in line with the Dutch Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act (Wwft). This process applies to new or existing suppliers related to our main activities, such as consultants, legal advisors, government intermediaries and/or providers of critically outsourced services. This is set out in FMO’s Procurement and Outsourcing Policy. ESRS 2 Interests and views of stakeholders We engage with stakeholders for various purposes: to create partnerships, to invest together, to harmonize approaches, and/or to seek insights that inform our policies and approaches. In addition, we value the input we receive from various stakeholders on our (proposed) investments. Our stakeholders bring critical perspectives, alert us to different viewpoints, provide us with critical feedback, and challenge us to be more transparent and accountable as an organization. Through stakeholder dialogues we aim to better understand each other’s perspectives and find ways to strengthen our collaboration. These dialogues help us to reflect on and enhance our risk assessment practices. Overall, most stakeholders engage with us because of the impact we aim to achieve through our investments. FMO stakeholders and stakeholder management Our customers, the State of the Netherlands, shareholders, employees, investors, NGOs, supervisors, other DFIs/IFIs and regulators are among our most important stakeholders. Engagement can take various forms, from day-to-day, business-as-usual engagement to more strategic and planned engagements, such as regular meetings, surveys, forums and stakeholder dialogues. FMO distinguishes between three stakeholder groups: 1) FMO’s own workforce, 2) external stakeholders FMO engages with at an investment level and 3) corporate stakeholder groups. 1. FMO’s own workforce include employees with an employment contract with FMO or a regional office subsidiary and contractors, consultants and secondees. Non-employees include a variety of individuals such as contractors (including ZZP), consultants and secondees. All managers, directors and Management Board members are responsible for employee engagement. 2. External stakeholders include customers, local communities and employees employed by our customers as well as other (positively/negatively) affected individuals. The relationships with our customers are managed by FMO’s investment teams, including ESG and impact specialists. 3. Corporate stakeholder groups include private investors such as FMO shareholders, syndicated partners and investors in FIM funds, the Dutch government (also as a shareholder), the Dutch Parliament, supervisor and regulator, NGOs, media and international partners (the EC, Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), and (European) Development Finance Institutions ((E)DFIs). These relationships are overseen by the following internal functions within FMO: Corporate Stakeholder Engagement, Risk, Partnerships for Impact and the Corporate Secretary. Policies FMO believes that transparency and accountability in its financing and investments are fundamental to fulfilling its development mandate. It allows us to improve our investment decisions and helps us be transparent to our stakeholders about whether FMO is achieving what it intends. 115 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"To facilitate this, FMO adheres to a Customer Disclosure Policy, outlining the scope and type of information that it makes available to the public. In addition to the disclosure of its annual reports, press releases and corporate- and policy-related disclosure, FMO also discloses selected relevant information about its investments and financing, both prior to (explicitly inviting comments from the stakeholder community), and after contracting. Table 3. Minimum disclosure requirements for Customer Disclosure Policy Scope of policy All investments involving FMO debt and equity transactions Accountable body Management Board Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) IFC PS, EDFI’s Principles for Responsible Financing of Sustainable development Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) Stakeholders are invited to provide comments on our investments, prior to and after contracting Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) Customer Disclosure Policy is publicly available on our website As a DFI, we are sensitive to the social context and environment in which we are active. The businesses and projects we invest in have an important impact on local communities and society at large. Therefore, we integrate stakeholder considerations and information, based on consultation with stakeholders (including affected communities, in line with the IFC PS), into our investment decision- making and we monitor whether decisions will further contribute to the quality and positive impact of FMO’s investments and also ensure community support. For more information, see our Sustainability Policy. FMO makes a distinction between project-related complaints and general complaints. General complaints can be communicated in writing. For project-related complaints, FMO has implemented an Independent Complaints Mechanism (ICM) and accompanying procedures. The ICM ensures the right to be heard for complainants who feel affected by an FMO-financed operation, facilitating dispute resolution and assisting FMO in drawing lessons learned. The ICM Policy describes the structure and governance of the complaints procedure, which allows affected external parties to file a complaint concerning a project financed by FMO. For more information on the project-related complaints procedure, refer to 'S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels to raise concerns'. Table 4. Minimum disclosure requirements for Independent Complaints Mechanism Policy Scope of policy The mechanism applies to FMO-financed operations Accountable body Management Board Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) IFC PS, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) We invite stakeholders to give their views on new (draft) ICM Policy via public consultation before finalizing the policy. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) ICM policy can be found publicly on our website FMO reports on the number admissible complaints received through the ICM. Details of this entity- specific metric and results are included in the following table. In 2024, no complaint was found admissible by the ICM's Independent Expert Panel relating to non-respect of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Table 5. Minimum disclosure requirements for metrics: new admissible complaints received Methodology and assumptions Number of complaints filed with the ICM that were declared admissible by the Independent Expert Panel (IEP) are defined as 'New admissible complaints received'. When the IEP groups several complaints pertaining to the same project as one case, this is treated as one complaint. An admissible complaint is a complaint for which the IEP has decided that it meets the admissibility criteria. These are specified in the ICM policy, which can be accessed on our website. 116 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit Number 2024 0 admissible complaints 2023 0 admissible complaints Stakeholder engagement and outcomes We are in constant dialogue with various stakeholders. Throughout the years, at a corporate level we have taken the outcomes of stakeholder engagement into account in, among other things: FMO’s strategy development (2030 Strategy: Pioneer-Develop-Scale) FMO’s double materiality assessment FMO’s Sustainability Policy FMO’s position statements FMO’s Customer Disclosure Policy The Independent Complaints Mechanism FMO’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) During the development of our long-term 2030 Strategy Pioneer – Develop – Scale we consulted internal stakeholders (including FMO’s employees) and external stakeholders. For this consultation, meetings were held with the Dutch Ministry of Finance, Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs, DNB, NGOs, (E)DFIs, private banks, commercial finance partners, and the European Commission (EC). At the start of the strategic development process, FMO collected the key topics and expectations of these stakeholders, which was part of the foundation for the further development of the long-term strategy. The Dutch Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Finance provided their vision during various stages of the strategy development process. During the materiality assessment, FMO takes the views and interests of stakeholders into account. We do this either by consulting them directly or integrating knowledge about stakeholder interests coming out of regular stakeholder engagement activities as described in this section. When developing or updating policy statements, we invite stakeholders to give their views on new policies and position statements that guide our investment process and decision-making. For example, in 2016, we developed a comprehensive Sustainability Policy, taking into account more than 300 comments from various parties from society, government and customers. We are active participants in a number of multi-stakeholder dialogues. At an investment level, the outcomes of stakeholder engagement are taken into account via our due diligence process. Stakeholder and community engagement is a key principle embedded within the IFC PS. This means that FMO is committed to actively engaging with affected stakeholders and local communities throughout the project lifecycle in order to understand their concerns, incorporate their perspectives into decision-making processes, and mitigate any negative impacts on them. On an ad-hoc basis, FMO also engages with value chain workers as part of its monitoring. For more information refer to section 'ESRS 2 - IRO management' and specific information on this type of stakeholder engagement in the sections 'S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers', 'S3-2 Processes for engaging with affected communities' and 'S4-2 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users'. The Integrity and Issue Management Committee (IIMC) is a sub-committee of the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) and is appointed by the Management Board. The IIMC monitors and advises on designated projects, transactions, and customers on a corporate and project level, including where applicable complaints related matters brought forward via the ICM for proposed, active and completed/ exited investments. The Management Board is informed of the views and interests of FMO project affected stakeholders on a case-by-case basis and the Supervisory Board (through the Management Board) via quarterly periodic briefs. For example, when there is a material impact voiced via 1) ex-ante (prior to commitment) disclosure questions; 2) NGO questions; or 3) (ongoing) complaints with the ICM. 117 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"FMO regularly conducts employee surveys to gauge employee satisfaction and engagement levels. For more information on how we engage with our employees please refer to the sub-chapter 'S1 - Own Workforce'. Future steps towards our stakeholder dialogues In 2024, we worked on an outline policy for effective dialogue with the relevant corporate stakeholders, which will be published as a position statement in the first quarter of 2025. This policy will enable FMO to effectively decide: (i) if engagement is needed for specific topics, (ii) which stakeholders should be involved, (iii) what the timelines are for this engagement process and (iv) how the process should be organized. Currently, the ICM Policy is being revised. Input from stakeholders will be sought by a public consultation of the draft policy, to enhance and clarify the policy and increase the trust and buy-in of stakeholders. Advocacy NGOs are especially interested in the ICM because they use it to escalate their complaints. NGOs that have requested to be able to provide input at an early stage – before public consultation – have been engaged with to share their views. ESRS 2 IRO management FMO manages material sustainability-related matters, including material impacts, risks and opportunities, through various policies and actions. Material impacts, risks and opportunities identified for S1 and G1 relate to FMO's own operations and are, therefore, managed by FMO's Human Resources and Compliance departments. Material impacts, risks and opportunities identified for E1, E3, E4, S2, S3 and S4 relate to FMO's customers and investments (downstream value chain) and are managed as part of our investment process. In addition, FMO has developed an impact management framework to ensure it takes an integrated approach to managing positive and negative impacts – potential and actual – as well as the financial risks that may result from the negative impacts in its investment portfolio. Our management approach to our own workforce and business conduct are described in the S1 and G1 topical statements, respectively. Our approach to impact management is common across E1, E3, E4, S2, S3 and S4 and is described in the following section. Negative impacts and the resulting financial risks are managed through ESG management practices. Negative impacts on people and the environment could result in financial risks, leading to, for example, financial (remediation, legal) costs to FMO or its customer, jeopardize access to capital for FMO (from external investors), jeopardizing the license to operate, jeopardizing shareholder relations or reputational damage. This is further described in the paragraphs relating to ESG management. Positive impacts are managed through allocating and structuring capital towards the SDGs, mostly through our Reducing Inequalities (RI) and Green Labels. This is further described in the paragraphs relating to impact management. Figure 2. Impact management framework Strategy and policy FMO’s impact and sustainability commitments are outlined in FMO’s Sustainability Policy, which was first approved by FMO’s Management Board in 2016. The policy is complemented by our exclusion list, 118 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"position statements on – among other things – human rights, land governance, fossil fuels and coal, and impact and ESG for financial intermediaries. Together, these documents form the Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU), available on our website. FMO requires, that all customers comply with applicable environmental, social and human rights laws in their home and host countries. In addition, FMO upholds (inter)national standards, including the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Client Protection Principles (CPPs). In addition, FMO has adopted the IFC PS (2012) as its operating standard. FMO requires its customers to comply with these standards and in doing so to identify, prevent and mitigate negative social and environmental impacts. FMO’s Sustainability Policy and position statements apply to all our new investments. This includes both direct investments and investments through financial intermediaries. This policy is the foundation of our impact management framework and provides guidance for FMO’s internal processes. FMO considers this policy a living document. It will be updated based on lessons learned and input from FMO’s stakeholders. Our Sustainability Policy and position statements undergo targeted and public consultation with various relevant stakeholder groups (e.g. the Dutch government, DFI partners, (commercial) peers, (inter)national Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and think tanks, and relevant (industry) standard organizations) during the development process and every three years, are formally approved by the Management Board. Table 6. Minimum disclosure requirements for FMO’s Sustainability Policy Scope of policy The scope of this policy extends to FMO’s entire footprint. This includes FMO’s activities at the organizational level and new investments with respect to all products provided by FMO. The nature of the services FMO delivers can in some situations limit FMO’s level of influence. FMO will then apply this policy to the greatest extent possible. This Policy is the foundation of our sustainability management and provides guidance to FMO’s internal processes. This Sustainability Policy is the leading part of a broader Sustainability Policy Universe (see Annex 1 of the Policy) that also encompasses thematic and sectoral Position Statements that complement the Sustainability Policy and give further depth and content to the choices FMO makes. Accountable body Management Board with approval delegated to Impact and Sustainability Committee (ISCO) Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) As part of the Sustainability Policy, FMO upholds various (inter)national standards. They are listed in the policy, which is publicly available. With respect to the management of environmental and social impact, the primary standards that FMO upholds are the IFC PS and the associated World Bank Group Environmental Health and Safety Guidelines. They cover the larger part of the ESG requirements in the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises, which also reference the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) We invite stakeholders to give their views on new policies and position statements that guide our investment process and decision-making. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) Sustainability Policy Universe, as well as a document describing how FMO navigates dilemmas and issues are all published on FMO’s website. Allocate and structure capital FMO’s policy requirements are translated into internal investment criteria that are applied and assessed at the investment level where FMO assesses both the positive and negative impacts to define the boundaries of where we allocate capital. The exclusion lists and ESG risk appetite define the boundaries for negative impacts. Our labels highlight the potential that individual investments must contribute to certain principles and objectives. The RI and Green Labels help classify individual investments as per their ex-ante (prior to commitment) potential to materially contribute to SDG 10 Reducing Inequalities and SDG 13 Climate Action respectively, thereby allocating capital towards FMO’s strategic impact ambitions. 119 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"For each investment, FMO measures volume indicators (assets under management) which include FMO’s RI and Green-labelled total committed portfolio. Labelling processes are operationalized using FMO’s Sustainability Information System (SIS). Reducing Inequalities Label The RI Label steers toward investments that have the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to SDG 10. Two objectives underlie the RI Label: increase investment in least developed countries (reducing inequality between countries) and increase investment in inclusive growth (reducing inequality within countries). Each of these has a set of principles, definitions and criteria. We report on RI-labelled total new investments. More information on the 2024 performance results is provided in the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy' in the section 'Sector performance'. Table 7. Minimum disclosure requirements for RI-labelled total new investments Methodology and assumptions New investment is the aggregate commitment made to a customer in a specific reporting period by FMO and PIM Funds, and by private participants and other public participants directly mobilized by FMO. For the calculation of new investment per participant, the aggregate commitment is allocated to the participants based on their credit risk exposure to the customer. The RI Label is an SDG Label indicating an Instrument has the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to the SDG 10 objectives. Two objectives underlie the RI Label: increase investment in LDCs (reducing inequalities between countries) and increase investment in inclusive growth (reducing inequalities within countries, focusing on gender and youth). Each of these objectives has a set of principles, definitions and criteria. The RI percentage is the share of an investment that is approved for the RI Label. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit EUR million 2024 2,250 2023 1,140 Green Label The Green Label steers toward investments that have ex-ante potential to materially contribute to SDG 13. The Green Label is defined by FMO’s green principles, its objectives, and definitions that clarify FMO’s approach to meeting these objectives. We report on Green-labelled total new investments. More information on the 2024 performance results is provided in the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy' in the section 'Sector performance'. Table 8. Minimum disclosure requirements for Green-labelled total new investments Methodology and assumptions New investment is the aggregate commitment made to a customer in a specific reporting period by FMO and PIM Funds, and by private participants and other public participants directly mobilized by FMO. For the calculation of new investments per participant, the aggregate commitment is allocated to the participants based on their credit risk exposure to the customer. The Green Label is an SDG Label indicating an investment has the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to the SDG 13 objectives, including climate mitigation, climate adaptation and resilience, water, circular economy and pollution prevention and biodiversity. The Green percentage is the share of an Instrument that is approved for Green Label. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit EUR million 2024 1,460 2023 1,091 Customer value creation At the customer level, FMO creates impact by contributing to improving financial and non-financial customer (or prospect) value, through a range of activities. These include the provision of investment, 120 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"financial and non-financial advisory services, development contributions, and inherent contributions. In addition, FMO contributes by identifying and mitigating negative impacts, and through the improvement of ESG performance. FMO’s engagement to generate value for customers overall also adds value to the wider market, the respective sectors and the ecosystem, and supports mutually beneficial progress towards our RI and Green Label targets. The following are sub-components of the way we support value creation at the customer level. ESG management at customer level Our investments may, unintentionally, lead to negative impacts on people and the environment. FMO is exposed to financial risks resulting from our investment selection, the effectiveness of customers to manage their impacts and the effectiveness of FMO’s engagement therein. At FMO, ESG management covers the management of both negative impacts as well as potential financial risks. As part of its investment process, FMO screens and categorizes all customers according to their gross ESG risk profile (i.e. risk that is inherent to the activity to be financed irrespective of a customers’ ESG performance). Based on this screening, the following categorization of customer E&S risk profiles is determined: A and B+ (high risk), B (medium risk) and C (low risk) for direct investments; and ID-A (high risk), ID-B+ (high risk), ID-B (medium risk) and ID-C (low risk) for indirect exposure through debt and PE funds. An initial assessment of the corporate governance (CG) risk for a customer is also conducted, resulting in a CG risk classification. Further, customers are evaluated on their potential negative impacts as well as their ESG performance, i.e. their capacity to manage these. Note that in the case of direct investments, E&S impact is assessed at customer-level. For indirect exposure to FIs, E&S impact is assessed by considering the operations as well as the investments of the FI (i.e. on a portfolio level basis). In particular, the FI customers’ level of exposure to high E&S impact sectors is considered. Similarly, in the case of funds, the E&S risk categories of the underlying investments the fund is composed of are taken into consideration when determining the funds' E&S risk profiles. For high E&S risk customers, we conduct site visits and stakeholder engagement, with further ESG requirements defined and negotiated as needed. Dedicated ESG specialists within FMO engage actively with all high-risk customers. The level and exact focus of engagement depend on the type and severity of impact and/or the extent to which the identified impact pose a threat to the environment, communities, the customer and/or FMO. FMO assesses the customers’ performance in mitigating and managing ESG impacts against the IFC PS. For each applicable standard, FMO monitors the customer’s performance against the standards. Impacts that are not adequately managed by high-risk customers are considered a performance gap, and recorded as such. The performance is assessed against the standards and is used to set the ESG performance target, described in the section 'ESG management at portfolio level'. FMO accepts a limited gap in successful ESG management to our standards. This gap acknowledges residual risk posed by contextual and implementation challenges in our market. FMO ESG specialists work with customers to develop Environmental and Social Action Plans (ESAPs) and Corporate Governance Action Plans (CGAPs) to enhance customer ESG impact management processes and remediate these gaps. FMO’s Credit department evaluates the ESG impacts and performance of each financial proposal and prepares credit advice to guide the final investment decision. Upon approval, all customer contracts will include ESG requirements, and FMO monitors the implementation of these requirements by our customers (throughout the investment period) through regular contact and site visits, often supported by independent consultants. Customer compliance against the ESAP and CGAP, as well as closing of actions, is monitored as part of the Customer Credit Review (CCR) process. In addition, FMO monitors serious incidents as reported by our customers or underperformance that would warrant corrective actions. We follow up on each incident to ensure a robust root cause analysis is conducted and corrective action implemented. For FMO’s high ESG risk customers, we monitor our exposure through FMO’s proprietary SIS. The net ESG risk exposure is the customers’ gross risk exposure corrected for by the customer’s performance managing down the negative impact. The methodology used to track performance for these high-risk customers is described in table 11 for number of customers with E&S performance gaps in portfolio. 121 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"ESG performance tracking in SIS is integrated within the investment process and forms the basis of FMO’s ESG performance target. ESG performance is monitored and updated throughout the lifetime of the investment as part of the annual review cycle of each customer, enabling FMO to have an up-to-date portfolio-wide view of the ESG negative impacts in its portfolio. Impact management at customer level At FMO, different teams contribute to different core elements relating to the management of positive impacts. This includes defining the strategic impact ambition of an investment aligned with 2030 Strategy ambitions, providing methodological guidance and defining reporting frameworks (how to measure), gathering data from customers and other sources, and recording this data in FMO’s SIS; and aggregating and reporting this data internally and externally. To measure, report and monitor the development impact of transactions, deal teams work with customers to define how the investment supports the core SDGs. They select approximately one to three impact indicators that best capture the intended positive impact of that investment and establish baselines and (where possible) time-specific expected values for these indicators. During the annual review process, customers report on the indicators. FMO engages with other European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI) to harmonize indicators to measure impact and align requirements across DFIs for customers. FMO strives towards alignment vis-à- vis the Harmonized Indicators for Private Sector Operations (HIPSO), the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), and Impact Reporting and Investment Standards Plus. Monitor and manage impact at portfolio level At the portfolio level, FMO manages and steers towards positive and negative impacts. FMO measures volume indicators. Impact management at portfolio level The volume indicators include FMO’s RI and Green-labelled total committed portfolio. FMO has a 2030 target of €10 billion for investments that will contribute towards SDG 10 Reduced Inequalities and SDG 13 Climate Action. The labels are a strategic steering tool to this end. In addition, FMO has identified several metrics to measure FMO’s contributions to the SDGs. While these metrics will be monitored for broader impact management purposes or external reporting requirements, only the metrics with a target are used to steer towards our strategic impact objectives. Table 9. Minimum disclosure requirements for SDG 10 Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) By 2030, we aim to have an investment portfolio of at least €10 billion in SDG 10 by financing assets that contribute to our SDG 10 objectives. Scope of target SDG 10 investments in the total committed portfolio Baseline value €4.0 billion Baseline year 2021 Application period 2023 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: €5,000 million 122 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Methodologies and assumptions The target has been established following the intent to double FMO’s impact regarding SDG 10 compared to the baseline year 2021. In the absence of a single impact metric, we focused on doubling the size of the relevant portfolios. Setting the target involved a forecasting exercise of the portfolio and subsequent internal discussions. Key assumptions for this target are that FMO can contribute to reducing inequalities within and between countries by steering investments towards 1) least developed countries or 2) activities that support inclusive growth. Hence, an investment can receive an ex-ante RI Label if the investment takes place in, or funds are expected to flow predominantly to LDCs (aligned with SDG 10.9) and/or if the investment is expected to contribute to inclusive business practices or targets the bottom 40 percent of the population (SDG 10.1). Portfolio trajectories per department were forecast during the 2030 Strategy process and SDG10 targets were confirmed with investment directorates, based on past and expected performance. It should be noted that portfolio growth was forecasted using a stable EUR/ USD FX rate of 1.10 through 2030. An appreciating USD has a positive effect on our portfolio results. Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) NA Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy process. Key input to setting the target was the Corporate Evaluation of our performance on reducing inequalities in the years 2015-2020. The evaluation was concluded in 2021. The target and strategic focus were discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during the strategy process. This included the Dutch government, being the main shareholder, and multi- stakeholder dialogues held in the course of 2021. Changes in target In 2024, the RI Label was updated in line with updated market standards (e.g. 2X and the updated MDB Common Principles) and other market developments. Two new sub- categories were added to the reducing within country inequality label to align with the new 2x standards and to account for access to food as a basic goods and services for low-income populations. Performance There was a 42 percent increase in 2024 compared to 2023, to €6.1 billion. This means that the target of €5 billion that was set for 2024 was reached. For more information on key trends and drivers, refer to the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy', 'Sector performance'. Table 10. Minimum disclosure requirements for SDG 13 Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) By 2030, we aim to have an investment portfolio of at least €10 billion in SDG 13 by financing assets that contribute to our SDG 13 objectives Scope of target SDG 13 investments in the total committed portfolio Baseline value €4.1 billion Baseline year 2021 Application period 2023 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: €5,4 million Methodologies and assumptions The target has been established following the intent to double FMO’s impact regarding SDG 13 compared to the baseline year 2021. In the absence of a single impact metric, we focused on doubling the size of the relevant portfolios. Setting the target involved a forecasting exercise of the portfolio and subsequent internal discussions. The Green Label is applied ex-ante to investments that are identified to contribute to potential positive impact on climate. Portfolio trajectories per department were forecast during the 2030 Strategy process and SDG10 targets were confirmed with investment directorates, based on past and expected performance. It should be noted that portfolio growth was forecasted using a stable EUR/USD FX rate of 1.10 through 2030. An appreciating USD has a positive effect on our portfolio results. 123 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) The Green Label methodology is based on and largely aligned with the Multilateral Development Banks (MDB) common principles on climate finance tracking. This set of principles is not intended to be scientifically evidenced per se, but evidence (such as certification of agricultural products or buildings) is required to support that these investments meet the principles and definition as set out in FMO’s Green Label methodology. Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy which has been discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting, including the Dutch government as key stakeholder and shareholder. Changes in target The Green Label methodology was updated in 2024 in line with MDB Common Principles of Climate Mitigation Finance Tracking of October 2021 and the MDB Common Principles of Climate Adaptation Finance Tracking of 2022 and external market standards. Green Label objectives have also been revised splitting the 'other footprint reduction' objective into the objectives biodiversity, water security, circular economy and pollution prevention. Performance There was a 24 percent increase in 2024 compared to 2023, to €5.9 billion. This means that the target of €5.4 billion that was set for 2024 was reached. For more information on key trends and drivers, refer to the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy', 'Sector performance'. ESG management at portfolio level FMO measures ESG gross and net risk in our portfolio to monitor our risk profile and to ensure we remain within risk appetite while measuring ESG performance. FMO has a public ESG target on the ESG performance of its high-ESG risk customers’ portfolio. The target is part of FMO’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), which specifies the appetite for accepting residual ESG risk. FMO has a cautious appetite for ESG risk in its investments. Full adherence cannot generally be expected at the start of the relationship. FMO strives for investments to be brought in line with our standards within a credible and reasonable period of time. It is understood and accepted that customers/investees have performance gaps as they need knowledge and resources to implement ESG improvements. E&S performance gaps Table 11. Minimum disclosure requirements for number of customers with E&S performance gaps in portfolio Methodology and assumptions Number of customers for which subpar performance has been identified (denoted by 'n'). E&S performance tracking is conducted for all high E&S risk customers, to determine their adherence to the IFC PS. The performance tracker considers all applicable IFC PS criteria per customer and allows these to be scored to assess the potential negative impacts and performance of the customer to mitigate these. For each high E&S risk customer, the following is determined: 1. The customers’ risk exposure to each criterion (1 – Low | 2 – Medium | 3 – High), and 2. The customers’ performance score against each PS criterion (1 – Exemplary | 2 – Good | 3 – Fair | 4 – Caution | 5 Unacceptable). The combination of these elements leads to a 7-letter scale E&S risk rating (AAA, AA, BBB, BB, CCC, CC, D) for each applicable criterion. Ratings BB/BBB/AA/AAA represent adequate customer E&S risk management per criterion, whilst CCC/CC/D are deemed to be inadequate. The lowest rating that the customer has achieved across all IFC PS criteria is used as the overall customer ESG performance rating. Performance is monitored over the lifetime of the investment. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit Number 2024 54 The following table provides an overview of the current E&S performance gaps we have identified and how we engage with these customers. It includes the number of customers for which subpar performance has been identified (denoted by 'n'). The outcomes shown below were compiled as part of FMO’s ESG performance tracking on a customer level (the methodology underlying this is outlined in 124 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"table 11). These performance gaps have been summarized by theme in the table that follows which illustrates the high priority issues that still require attention. Table 12. E&S performance gaps E&S performance gaps 2024 Description Our engagement ESRS topic Willingness and commitment (PS1) (n=7) Resistance to engage on E&S issues can stem from over- reliance on DFIs to drive ESG work streams. Commitment can waver due to financial, operational and contextual difficulties. Wavering commitment can have tangible implications on human rights and the environment, for example through delays in implementing management plans or community benefits, or in conducting specialized studies. We use contractual leverage on specific E&S items, raise issues with customers’ top management and exert influence on their boards, e.g. to push for the improvement of organizational culture. - Environmental and social governance and budget (PS1) (n=9) The customer’s leadership is not fully aware of and involved with E&S performance management, and/or has not allocated sufficient budget, resources, or time. Governance issues can result in poor protection of workers’ rights, a range of risks to communities, as well as damage to the environment. We use contractual leverage and escalate the issue to top management. We may offer capacity building and advice on integrating E&S costs into financial planning and monitor frequently. - Identification and assessment of risks and impacts (PS1) (n=8) Weak (initial and ongoing) identification and mitigation of risks. This can adversely impact human rights. We provide customers with continuous engagement with our ESG staff and capacity building. If needed, we exert formal pressure e.g. through withholding additional financing or triggering default. - Environmental and social management system (PS1) (n=13) Since the assessment and management of E&S risks and impacts is part of a larger set of processes that the customer uses to manage its projects, the customer needs to deploy an environmental and social management system (ESMS) to warehouse and utilize such processes. A weak system hampers the ability to identify issues or risks, and through that to improve E&S performance, and so can lead to adverse economic, financial, social, and environmental impacts. We support customers in the development and improvement of an ESMS. - Organizational capacity and competency (PS1) (n=10) E&S teams can be too small, change often, continue to perform poorly, or lack qualified staff. This is an issue in countries where environmental legislation is developing, and/or state human rights policy and practice are weak. We use contractual leverage, offer capacity building and look for competent staff in our network. - Stakeholder engagement, external communication, grievance mechanisms (PS1) (n=16) Trust and communication between FMO’s customer and its stakeholders are eroding or have broken down. Ineffective channels of communication play an important part here, particularly when grievances are insufficiently captured or redressed. Poor performance in this area can infringe on the freedom of opinion and expression, and even result in inhuman treatment, retaliation, and risk to lives. We intensify our customer engagement, offer to connect customers to experts, mediate or provide capacity building. S3 Affected communities Voluntary land rights transfer (PS1) (n=2) Customer needs to demonstrate that the buyer and the seller were both willing to transfer the land. Involuntary land transfer can be masked as voluntary, which can weaken community cohesion, cause tension between company and community and affect people’s livelihoods. We engage with our customers to help them establish a land acquisition process that shows both the buyer and seller are willingly transferring the land. S3 Affected communities Working conditions and management of workers relationship (incl. third party workers) (PS2) (n=14) Project workers working in substandard conditions, unaware of their rights or without access to grievance mechanisms. This can infringe on labor rights. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. S2 Workers in the value chain Occupational health and safety (PS2) (n=10) Gaps in ensuring safe and healthy working conditions, possibly leading to serious injuries and fatalities. This could infringe upon the right to health and safety in the workplace, and the right to life. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. S2 Workers in the value chain 125 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Supply chain working conditions (PS2) (n=3) When the customer does not monitor its primary supply chain, risks or incidents affecting vulnerable groups are not adequately addressed. We require customers with supply chains susceptible to high human rights or environmental risks to conduct a supply chain risk assessment. In some cases, they also need to develop a leverage plan and/or action plan to mitigate those risks. S2 Workers in the value chain Resource efficiency and pollution prevention (PS3) (n=10) Projects reduce the availability of water in arid regions or pollution prevention measures are inefficient. This can infringe upon the right to life, the rights of the child and the right to live in a safe, clean, and healthy environment. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. - Community health, safety and security (PS4) (n=9) Potential negative impacts to local communities are poorly managed, especially when security forces are mandated to protect personnel and assets. The increasing fragility of political environments across the geographies we work in makes this a complex area. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. FMO can require a root cause analysis and corrective measures or redress. S3 Affected communities Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement (PS5) (n=9) When resettlement and livelihood restoration plans are poorly managed or insufficiently recognize vulnerable groups and/or have ineffective grievance mechanisms. This can impoverish people and infringe on their right to an adequate standard of living, notably the right to food and adequate housing. We find an expert to conduct gap analyses and implement recommendations. In the event of an early exit, FMO seeks to provide remedy to those impacted. S3 Affected communities Biodiversity and living natural resources (PS6) (n=9) Biodiversity potential negative impacts have not been modeled well enough or monitoring and mitigation are insufficient, or new findings are missed or ignored. This reduces biodiversity and access to forest products, thereby infringing on the right to food and/or an adequate standard of living. We intensify customer monitoring, engage a biodiversity expert and use our leverage to improve the situation. E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems Indigenous Peoples (PS7) (n=3) Community engagement processes do not meet FPIC requirement and/or do not allow for sufficient participation of Indigenous Peoples. In some cases, we recognize challenging operating conditions where risks to these communities are difficult to control. This may lead to the infringement of their right to food, traditions and sacred sites. FMO encourages customers to meet FPIC standards, share benefits with communities, and include indigenous groups in livelihood restoration. We may intensify monitoring of contextual risk factors. S3 Affected communities Cultural heritage (PS8) (n=3) Failure to protect cultural heritage. This can infringe on the rights of people to benefit from their and other people’s cultural heritage. We use our leverage to improve the situation, looking at past and future risks. S3 Affected communities Financial intermediaries: financial institutions and fund managers (n=22) Substandard system for identifying and managing E&S potential negative impacts of financed activities. Processes and procedures are unclear, E&S management responsibilities are insufficiently defined and/or capabilities are lacking, or inadequate E&S due diligence and monitoring is performed. This can be compounded by lack of exposure to and experience in E&S risks management by the financial sector and the lack of a level-playing field. This can lead to infringements of all types of human rights as referenced before. We provide expertise and funding for the ESMS or sit on E&S risk management committees. We negotiate improvement plans and, in some cases, initiate or contribute to sector initiatives. - ESG performance target While we monitor all negative impacts in our portfolio, FMO's ESG performance target is set annually for high-ESG risk customers contracted prior to 2024 (identified as the ‘target list’). The target list includes high E&S risk customers and customers with a corporate governance officer in the deal. We register and monitor all potential negative impacts of our high-risk customers and aim to have at least 90 percent of ESG risks in our target list managed at an adequate level by our customers. The 2024 results indicate that, on average, 94 percent of ESG risks were adequately managed. In instances where customer performance deteriorates or open action items are not implemented on time, customers receive lower ratings, which bring down the average of the entire portfolio. The target has 126 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"been met and the 2024 performance has improved from 91 percent in 2023, resulting from improved impact management by our clients, with a particular increase in performance of our FI portfolio. Table 13. Minimum disclosure requirements for ESG performance target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) At least 90 percent of the ESG risks in our target list are managed at an adequate level by our customers Scope of target High E&S-risk customers and customers with a corporate governance officer in the deal. By consolidating customers within the same corporate group or group of companies, and excluding those in B Loans* or contracted in 2024, we created a target list of 258 customers. Baseline value 90% Baseline year 2023 Application period 2024-2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: 90% Methodologies and assumptions E&S performance tracking is conducted for all high E&S risk customers, to determine their adherence to the IFC PS. The performance tracker considers all applicable IFC PS criteria per customer and allows these to be scored to assess the potential negative impacts and performance of the customer to mitigate these. For each high E&S risk customer, the following is determined: 1. The customers’ risk exposure to each criterion (1 – Low | 2 – Medium | 3 – High), and 2. The customers’ performance score against each PS criterion ((1 – Exemplary | 2 – Good | 3 – Fair | 4 – Caution | 5 Unacceptable). The combination of these elements leads to a 7-letter scale E&S risk rating (AAA, AA, BBB, BB, CCC, CC, D) for each applicable criterion. Ratings BB/BBB/AA/AAA represent adequate customer E&S risk management per criterion, whilst CCC/CC/D are deemed to be inadequate. The target is calculated as the share of adequate risks amongst all risks assessed in the target list customers (see scope for target list). Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) NA Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy which has been discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting, including the Dutch government being the key stakeholder and shareholder. Changes in target Target remains the same as in 2023 except the target list is redefined every year as described in the methodology. Performance 94% *FMO participates in 'B-loans', contractual arrangements where it has a sub-participation where another DFI/MDB manages the customer relationship. In these cases, FMO does not have a direct business relationship with the end recipient. In 2023, it was decided that, while FMO will continue to monitor B-loan performance, the results would not be included in our ESG target. Evaluate and learn FMO conducts evaluations to assess and learn from FMO’s performance against our committed (impact) objectives. At the portfolio level, we perform corporate evaluations to assess FMO's contributions to the SDGs, while for fund evaluations, we selectively choose specific investments for review. Evaluations help us to be accountable and to learn from the results that our financial and non-financial activities create in order to continuously improve. ESRS 2 Governance of sustainability matters The topic of governance is mostly covered in the sub-chapter ‘Corporate governance’ and the chapter ‘Report of the Supervisory Board’. In this section, we provide information on the governance aspects relating to sustainability-related matters. 127 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Roles and responsibilities in managing IROs FMO’s sustainability agenda is managed in an integrated way. The Supervisory Board oversees the overall strategy and performance. The Supervisory Board has three dedicated committees: The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC), the Impact Committee (IC) and the Selection, Appointment and Remuneration (SARC). The Audit and Risk Committee provides - among others - advice to the Supervisory Board on approving the Risk Appetite Framework. The Audit and Risk committee also discusses the quarterly Risk Appetite Reports on a regular basis. This report includes sections on whether climate risk and ESG risk are within appetite level. The Impact Committee prepares the decision-making and advice of the Supervisory Board on FMO’s strategic impact commitments, including policies and targets related to sustainability-related matters. Our material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities are reflected in the standing rules of the Supervisory Board Impact Committee as part of their objective of assisting the Supervisory Board in overseeing the quality and integrity of FMO’s statements regarding development Impact. The Supervisory Board Impact Committee also prepares advice to support Supervisory Board and Management Board decision-making concerning FMO's strategy in respect to sustainability-related matters, including policies and target-setting. Our Management Board is responsible for FMO’s mission, vision, strategic goals and strategy including our long-term value creation. The Management Board is also responsible for implementing the strategy and the subsequent delivery of results, as reflected in the standing rules of the Management Board. Our sustainability-related matters are closely connected to managing FMO’s development impact, which is a core Management Board responsibility. In 2022, the Management Board approved FMO’s 2030 Strategy, including its 2030 strategic targets and ambitions. FMO’s long-term strategy is translated into annual business plans, outlining the priorities as well as the annual targets for the year, which are discussed and approved by the Management Board. The Management Board also approves the overall outcome of FMO’s double materiality assessment and reporting approach. Specific investments and divestments are discussed and/or approved by the Management Board. The Management Board decides and steers on strategic ambition levels regarding sustainability, through the setting of sustainability-related targets at corporate level, approving elements of our sustainability policy universe and guiding on items with high sustainability-related risks of reputational damage. Management Board committees The Management Board has delegated some of these responsibilities to its management committees. With regards to sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities, responsibilities have been delegated to the Impact and Sustainability Committee (ISCO), the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) and the Financial Risk Committee (FRC). The ISCO supports the Management Board by driving the day-to-day impact and sustainability agenda through improved decision-making of sustainability-related matters and interpretation of external developments, with a view to implementation consequences. The Co-CIO has been appointed as the single point of accountability in the Management Board for sustainability-related matters and acts as Chair of the ISCO. In addition, the committee is composed of the following permanent members: Director Strategy, Director ESG+, Director Finance, Impact and Data, Investment Director and Director Credit and Special Operations. The ISCO endorses the results of the FMO’s double materiality assessment (DMA) from an impact materiality perspective, for the Management Board to approve. The Sustainability Policy is approved by the Management Board at least once every 3 years. The ISCO has delegated authority for its annual approval. The NFRC is appointed by the Management Board as an independent body for the purpose of monitoring, challenging, and deciding upon the execution of non-financial risk within FMO including ESG risks and will decide on the escalation of unacceptable ESG risks related to investment projects and cases with high reputational risk. The FRC deals with ESG risk at a portfolio level including for example climate risk assessments and results. The FRC also endorses the results of the DMA from a financial materiality perspective. Both the FRC and NFRC are chaired by Management Board members. Internal functions The responsibility for managing sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities lies with several internal functions within FMO. The Strategy department is tasked with managing FMO’s corporate strategy and implementation, including defining the sustainability strategy and related policies. FMO’s 128 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"intensive assets in its current portfolio, for example, via indirect investments through financial intermediaries in the Financial Institutions portfolio. However, mechanisms are in place to mitigate this risk in the investment portfolio. In this regard, a distinction between new and legacy investments should be made: 1. For new investments: The Combined Position Statement on Coal and Phasing Out Fossil Fuels excludes and screens out investments that are expected to have a high risk for future carbon lock in. FMO will use the Paris Alignment (PA) methodology to screen potential investments for alignment with the Paris Agreement. See section 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies' for more background on the PA methodology. 2. While there may be carbon-intensive assets locked in, in the current portfolio, the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target applies to both new and existing investments, thereby ensuring that the total emissions from investments in power generation will be reduced by 50 percent in 2030. See section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation' for more information on the Power Generation target. In its current form, the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178, also known as the EU Taxonomy, is applicable for European economic activities. Since FMO invests outside Europe and entities based outside the EU are excluded from the numerator of the Green Asset Ratio (GAR), FMO reports a GAR of 0 percent. This implies that no key performance indicators from the EU Taxonomy can be linked to the resources required for the implementation of the actions described. More information is included in the 'EU Taxonomy' section. Based on FMO’s interpretation of as investments in physical assets in scope 1 and 2 of an organization, there is no CapEx to be identified as material for FMO. As a financial institution, FMO does not do climate-related investments in physical assets in its own operations that can be considered material (see 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment'). FMO is awaiting guidelines or sector standards specifically for financial institutions for possible adaptation of the CapEx definition to financial institutions. FMO is not excluded from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks. The decarbonization levers presented are based on FMO’s 2030 Strategy and the CAP, i.e. the aims and actions described are embedded in FMO’s strategy. This is explained in more detail in the chapter on 'E1 Impact, risks, opportunities'. Details on the progress of each of the decarbonization levers are provided in 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies'. Details on the targets that are part of the decarbonization levers (e.g. the Power Generation Emissions Reduction target and €10 billion SDG 13 target) are provided in 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. The 2030 Strategy was approved by the Supervisory Board in 2022. The CAP was approved by the Management Board in 2022. E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Our material IROs related to climate change are covered in the following two policies. 1. Sustainability Policy 2. Climate Risk Policy In the following sections, these policies are described in further detail. FMO’s commitments and actions on climate are described in the CAP and reported in 'E1-3 Actions'. All policies are subject to frequent revisions as per the Bank Risk Policy and are continuously evolving. Sustainability Policy FMO’s sustainability policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts and is described in more detail in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The Sustainability Policy encompasses FMO’s organizational activities, including energy consumption, resource utilization, travel practices, and new investments, addressing all products offered by FMO. As such, our Sustainability Policy covers how we manage the 140 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"climate-related impacts throughout our value chain. The Sustainability Policy is complemented by several position statements and an exclusion list. For climate change the most noteworthy include: Our Combined Position Statement on Coal and Position Statement on Phasing Out Fossil Fuels from our Investments reflects our approach to phasing out fossil fuels from our portfolio, both direct and indirect. Our Position Statement on Hydro Power Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical and E&S impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. Our Position Statement on Impact and ESG for financial intermediaries outlines FMO’s structural approach to impact steering and ESG management in financial intermediary financing, including restricting our financial intermediary portfolio exposure to coal activities, and promoting and advising on green credit lines or green bonds that support climate action. Our exclusion list contains the activities, products, uses, distribution, business or trade that FMO and the borrower will not finance, extending to the borrowers’ shareholders, their affiliates and their subsidiaries. Additional major documents and processes that explain how material climate positive and negative impacts are managed are: The Paris alignment methodology, which describes our methodology for checking our new investments for alignment with the Paris goals, thereby helping our clients with the transition to become Paris aligned. ESG in the investment process: While the Sustainability Policy explains FMO’s ESG management process, this is operationalized via different internal documents such as the Risk Appetite Framework, Investment Criteria, and SIS manual. The Green Label Guidelines are used to assess eligibility of new investments for a ‘Green Label’. A Green Label is assigned based on the ex-ante potential of an investment in terms of its positive impact on our portfolio, including for instance the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing resource efficiency, preserving and growing natural capital, and/or supporting climate adaptation. The label is not intended to monitor (ex post) impact. The Green Label thereby serves as a strategic steering tool and a proxy for FMO to measure progress against its €10 billion SDG 13 2030 target. In relation to the upstream value chain, an additional relevant document is the Sustainability Bonds Framework, which addresses the four key pillars of the ICMA ESG Bond Principles. The framework explains how FMO attracts private or public funds by issuing sustainable or green bonds in the capital market. Moreover, FMO aims to mobilize public and private capital and to create new bankable opportunities, as described in our 2030 Strategy. Climate Risk Policy The Climate Risk Policy covers our climate-related risks in the entire value chain. Complementing this policy, the climate risk methodology explains how we identify the physical and transition risks associated with climate change. All policies are subject to frequent revisions as per the Bank Risk Policy and are therefore continuously evolving. The Climate Risk Policy aims to: 1. Define climate risk in terms of physical and transition risk drivers. 2. Introduce the approach used to identify climate risks in all FMO’s operations, products, and services. 3. Define the roles and responsibilities related to climate risk identification, assessment, and action. 141 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Table 15. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for Climate Risk Policy Scope of policy The policy applies to the FMO-A portfolio (both on and off-balance sheet) and to FMO-managed government funds. It has a specific focus on assessing and managing climate risks related to FMO's loan and equity investments. In 2025, the scope and name of the policy will be expanded from a climate risk policy to a climate- related and environmental financial risk policy. Accountable body The document is approved by the FRC after consultation via the ISCO and owned by Risk. Implementation is currently managed via an internal project and related implementation oversight is performed by the Steering Committee of the project. Third-party standards/ initiatives (if relevant) The document was developed in the light of the ECB Guide on climate-related and environmental risks. Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) No key external stakeholders were consulted upfront in this process, but the policy has been shared with DNB for information afterwards. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) This is an internal policy and the document is therefore not publicly available. With regards to climate change mitigation, FMO manages material IROs through several processes. Most importantly, through our Green Label guidelines, with which we aim for our portfolio to materially contribute to climate mitigation, reduction of GHG emissions and/or increasing sequestration of GHG emissions from the atmosphere (along with adaptation and energy efficiency, as described below). FMO’s Green Label definition is based on the Common Principles for Climate Mitigation Finance Tracking, as defined by the Multilateral Development Banks. All Green-labelled investments should meet FMO’s Green Principles, namely that Green-labelled investments contribute to a genuine improvement and should not contribute to a long-term lock-in of high carbon infrastructure. A genuine improvement implies that 1) the improvement goes beyond the local regulatory requirements 2) the improvement is unrelated to local resources stress and 3) the improvement is sustainable throughout the value chain of an industry or a business. The implementation of our Paris Alignment methodology will contribute to further aligning our new investments to the Paris Agreement. Furthermore, as per our combined Position Statement on Coal and Phasing Out Fossil Fuels, FMO will not invest in any upstream coal mining activities, transportation of coal, construction or renovation of a coal producing plant, or other associated business or infrastructure. Other fossil fuels are only invested in the exceptional case that a transition phase is deemed necessary to improve a country’s energy accessibility. The combined position statement applies to both direct and indirect investments of FMO. The SBF sets out a list of climate change mitigation activities eligible for the sustainability bonds issued. The Climate Risk Policy includes components such as knowledge and awareness development, embedding climate risk in the organization's strategy, governance, risk appetite determination, policy adjustments, stress testing, climate risk assessment methodology development, and internal and external reporting. FMO manages its knowledge components and supports customers primarily via technical assistance. Investment teams are responsible for assessing climate risks and it is at their discretion to discuss the outcomes with clients. The Risk department maintains the methodology and supports knowledge development across the organization. Besides climate mitigation, FMO also aims to contribute to climate adaptation. Most notably, we do this through our Green Label, through which we label those investments that ex ante are expected to positively contribute to climate adaptation. For a customer or an activity to be eligible for a Green Label in this category, it needs to be assessed to meet the climate adaptation principles set by the IFC-MDB joint methodology for climate change adaptation. This means that climate change adaptation is defined as achieving climate resilience outcomes in response to relevant climate change impacts, by managing or reducing physical climate risks, reducing the underlying causes of vulnerability and avoiding maladaptation. 142 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Our Paris Alignment methodology further aims to ensure a minimum level of resilience for Paris alignment. Our physical Climate Risk Assessment underpins our climate adaptation label analysis. The SBF sets out a list of climate change adaptation activities eligible for the sustainability bonds. Following the EDFI Statement on Climate and Energy Finance and as part of our Climate Action Plan, FMO aims to finance initiatives that contribute to adaptation and resilience to climate change, especially in respect of vulnerable communities and natural ecosystems. Improving energy efficiency is one of the ways by which FMO strives to remain climate neutral in all its operational activities. FMO looks to build-up a portfolio that is targeted at improving access to basic services, such as energy, and aiming to optimally use scarce resources. Energy efficiency is seen as a form of climate change mitigation when assessing activities according to the Green Label Guidelines: at least 20 percent reduction in energy consumption or GHG emissions is required for it to comply with that category. Through our E&S practices, we apply IFC PS3: Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, which is specific for water and pollution (e.g. air, noise, water) related impacts and for opportunities on efficiencies (e.g. energy or water). This also involves the issuance of sustainability bonds used to finance renewable energy and improve energy. Regarding renewable energy deployment, following the EDFI Statement on Climate and Energy Finance, our Sustainability Policy states that FMO is committed to increase its share of investment that contributes to low-carbon, reliable and affordable energy. As described previously, through our Green Label and Position Statements, we aim to increase our portfolio’s share of contribution to renewable energy deployment and avoid investments in non-renewables respectively. Also, investing in renewable energy is central to our Energy sector strategy, which is one of the three core sectors in which FMO invests. Finally, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments in biodiversity and forestry, to remove carbon and increase resilience. For further information please refer to 'E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems'. E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies The three main actions to operationalize FMO’s 2030 Strategy in relation to climate are as follows: 1. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. 2. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. 3. Active management of our climate action. Details regarding these actions are described in the following sections. Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals This action consists of the following sub-actions: 1. Reduce emissions in our investments, so that in 2050 our portfolio’s aggregate absolute emissions, when added with our carbon removal investments’ negative emissions, result in net zero emissions. We will strive to align the overall portfolio emission reductions with aggregate country- and sector- specific 1.5oC emission reduction pathways, taking into account a just and inclusive transition. At FMO we recognize that a starting point for Paris alignment are the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and National Adaptation Plans, and while we will seek to align our investments with these plans, we also seek to raise the ambition level of our customers and strive toward 1.5oC pathway alignment. 143 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"2. Reduce power generation portfolio emissions by 50 percent to 2030, while at the same time approximately doubling our sustainable power generation portfolio and overall energy portfolio. We will consider additional targets in other parts of the portfolio. 3. Assess new investments for Paris alignment from a climate mitigation and resilience perspective, by implementing an investment-level Paris alignment assessment for new transactions. 4. Implement our commitment under the EDFI Climate and Energy Statement regarding fossil fuels in our indirect investments, and consider other policies that support our goals. FMO has a dedicated project allocated to the implementation of this action. Since 2023, FMO has a dedicated workstream focused on developing a Paris alignment methodology and further developing our in-house capacity. In 2024 FMO finalized its Paris alignment methodology, based on the MDB Principles for Paris Alignment. This methodology will be used to assess new investments for Paris alignment from a mitigation and resilience perspective and was piloted in 2024 based on which the methodology was further refined and finalized. The Paris alignment assessment methodology will be rolled out in the coming period and once ready, will be used to assess new transactions. Additionally, FMO will work further towards an approach for striving towards 1.5-degree alignment and develop climate mitigation KPIs for progress measurement. The overall action can be classified as a decarbonization lever, since the sub-actions will reduce emissions in FMO's investment portfolio, thereby mitigating climate change. The target of reducing power generation emissions by 50 percent in 2030 is part of this action. This target – together with performance on expected and achieved GHG reductions - is elaborated in section 'E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation'. Increasing climate investments and support to our customers This action is made of by the following sub-actions: 1. Building up a portfolio of at least €10 billion dedicated to SDG 13 goals in climate mitigation, adaptation & resilience (including nature-based solutions), biodiversity, and other footprint reduction. We do this by engaging with customers such as our financial institutions to encourage their further investments in these objectives, through activities that contribute to developing our markets (market creation), and by mobilizing additional capital to closing the financing gap needed in emerging markets. 2. Increasing our climate mitigating investments and investments that contribute to solutions for adaptation, resilience and biodiversity, thereby strengthening our customers’ resilience to climate change. Examples of what this entails, include: Corporate governance advisory work focused on climate governance and climate risk, building on the work we have done in this area to date. Technical assistance funding, building on platforms like our Green Finance Framework. Engagement with portfolio companies and new customers to influence them to set targets and transition plans to reduce their emissions over time, or at a minimum to consider technical solutions together. Supporting green finance innovation in our investments. Active shareholdership by ensuring our investees are prepared for both climate risks and opportunities. Creating coalitions with key nature conservation organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, and promoting community and stakeholder engagement. 3. Provide sector-specific solutions for energy, financial institutions, and agriculture and forestry. Regarding energy, FMO will continue financing utility scale clean energy generation projects (solar, wind both on- and offshore, hydro power and geothermal), with an increased attention towards the least developed countries (LDCs) and fragile states. These efforts will be an important driver behind our climate mitigation and resilience goals. Towards 2030, through sector initiatives, partner engagement, and other means, we will work to remove bottlenecks currently slowing down the sustainable energy transition in some of our markets. We will also work toward sustainable energy access and inclusion, while further scaling both already established / proven and innovative technologies and solutions. 144 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"For financial institutions, FMO will increasingly aim to have a ‘transformative’ impact on customers through a strategic approach including the development of product propositions, capabilities, and related financing with the goal of having the same effect on end beneficiaries. Finally, regarding agriculture and forestry, our focus will remain on strengthening local agricultural and food supply chains for both local or regional markets to increase local production and reduce reliance on imports, to improve local access to nutritious food, and to reduce food waste (e.g. through more and improved storage and distribution). We continue our focus on decent work and economic inclusion of the bottom 40 percent of income distribution, including smallholder farmers and women. Towards 2030, emphasis will be on engagement and investing more in global merchants, input providers and food companies with leverage to increase sustainable practices, along the (international) agricultural supply chains. We will continue expanding our integral/ landscape approach to supporting and investing in sustainable land-use and ecosystem protection and restoration, among others, through our work on forestry (carbon sequestration), climate smart and regenerative agriculture, soil improvements and livelihoods. 4. Continue to invest in carbon removals, specifically forestry, and help build these markets. More details on this are provided in the section 'E1-7 GHG Removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits'. 5. Contribute to our impact portfolio growth objectives through our market creation efforts and scale our activities through our mobilization efforts. In order to advance our impact contributions (including for climate action), through ‘market creation’ we aim to develop unbankable opportunities into bankable projects, as well as drive topics and business models of the future. We aim to accelerate impact by upscaling mobilization of private and public capital by aiming to double this portfolio by 2030 through: Developing climate fund propositions for large scale mobilization, following a just and inclusive transition approach, targeting both climate impact and social impact. Blending public and commercial funding for high-impact propositions in LDCs. Exploring possibilities for equity mobilization. Strengthening syndication efforts by increasing sourcing capacity of transactions, and by expanding and diversifying our investor base. 6. Engaging with our customers to increase their Paris alignment and provide them with technical assistance and other support. This will include helping to develop climate governance and climate risk frameworks and tools to work with their clients. We will specifically start with pan-regional customers as agents of change, gradually expanding to all customers over time. FMO’s Green Label Methodology was updated in 2023 by the Sustainability Strategy and Policy team (established in 2023), following updated Multilateral Development Banks common principles for climate mitigation finance tracking. FMO has also established a Sustainable Finance Advisory team to support investment teams with Green deal origination. This team reached its full size at the end of 2023 and initiated work with the sectors in 2024. On advancing sector-specific solutions for energy, financial institutions, and agriculture and forestry, in 2024, FMO developed a climate framework for Technical Assistance (TA) to the Private Equity and Agribusiness, Food and Water sectors. Through the climate framework, FMO is able to offer customers in the Private Equity and Agribusiness, Food and Water sectors TA on climate adaptation and mitigation. This includes climate awareness training, climate risk assessments, GHG measurement and reporting, climate action planning and implementation, climate opportunity origination, and compliance with sustainability standards. As part of our ambition to continue to invest in carbon removals, specifically forestry, and help build these markets, FMO has investment officers specialized in forestry in various investment teams. Under market creation, FMO has defined four focus themes: financial inclusion and resilience for entrepreneurs, responsible energy transition, forestry and sustainable land-use, and food system transformation. In 2024, we worked in particular on operationalizing and building out the financial inclusion theme. 145 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"The overall action can be classified as a decarbonization lever, since it will contribute to reducing emissions, thereby mitigating climate change. However, no GHG emission reduction target is linked to this action. Active management of our climate action This action is comprised of a set of sub-actions: 1. Monitor our work at a portfolio level, including absolute and relative emission levels. In order to achieve the impact we aim for, having the right data and additional information needed for measuring and steering our work will be key. 2. Continue to improve data quality and collection, including at the level of our customers. Data collection in our markets and for our specific customer types is not always readily available, especially for investments in smaller companies and for financial institutions and funds, which need to obtain data from their clients. To tackle this challenge, together with our development finance institution partners, we launched the Joint Impact Model (JIM) in 2021. The JIM allows us to model the emissions in the absence of emission data, to have an indication of our portfolio emissions. 3. Adopt an adaptive management approach and adjust our actions based on data and information. The intent of our data/information collection drive is to not only use the information we gather to report and for compliance purposes, but to also better actively manage our portfolio and tailor our climate actions to what is most effective. Moving forward, we will continue to work on improving our systems. 4. Implement a climate risk framework to manage the portfolio for both physical and transition climate risk. Integrating climate risk at FMO is about ensuring that risks to our portfolio due to climate change (physical and transition risks) are structurally identified, assessed, and managed. It is also about bringing this knowledge to our customers and structuring our transactions with the same considerations. Ultimately managing climate risk is another way to drive the change we want to see in our markets. The implementation of this action is mainly covered via a project. In 2024, FMO made progress in developing transition and physical risk assessment methodologies for assessing climate risk. Physical risk assessment tooling is currently implemented for all sectors. Furthermore, FMO established a climate risk policy as well as a quarterly portfolio scan as part of the climate risk framework. FMO also continued work on improving data quality and collection. For the first time, FMO reported the PCAF score for the tracking of emissions data quality. FMO will further work on transition risk assessment and improving data quality and management. FMO will also aim to refine emissions data to better take into account known use-of-proceeds instruments, i.e., when the investment is allocated to specific assets of a customer. While this action aims to enhance FMO’s management of climate actions, such as creating more awareness via enhanced data and methodologies, the overall action cannot be classified as a decarbonization lever since it does not directly contribute to GHG reduction. Table 16. Minimum Disclosure Requirement applicable for all presented actions Scope of actions The actions apply to FMO's value chain, with a focus on the downstream value chain. No actions regarding FMO's own operations are included, as these were found to be not material in the DMA. Time horizon The actions are formulated for the period until 2030, in line with our Strategy. Actions taken to provide for and cooperate in or support the provision of remedy (if applicable) N/A Progress of actions disclosed in prior periods As this is the first year we report within the structure of the ESRS, we do not report progress on actions from prior periods. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. Operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) (if required) No significant operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) related to implementing actions. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. 146 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As explained in section 'E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation', no key performance indicators from the EU Taxonomy can be linked to the resources required for the implementation of the actions described. More information is provided in the 'EU Taxonomy' section. E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation FMO has two targets related to the Policies and Actions described in the sections 'E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation' and 'E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies' respectively. Table 14 presented in the 'E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities' section shows which target relates to which IRO, policy and/or action. The table, therefore, indicates for each action whether there is a related target, thereby specifying whether and how the effectiveness of these actions are quantitatively tracked. Firstly, a GHG emission reduction target has been set in the form of the Power Generation Emission Reduction target. The target is set to reduce the financed scope 1 emissions in the power generation portfolio by 50 percent in 2030. Given the baseline value of 624 ktCO2e, this would imply an absolute reduction of 312 ktCO2e. This target will specifically contribute to reducing the financed absolute GHG emissions, i.e. the GHG emissions in scope 3 category 15 (Investments). The target has the same reporting boundary as the financed absolute GHG emissions. In 2024, the power generation portfolio emissions are 442 ktCO e, which is 42 percent of the financed scope 1 emissions and 8 percent of total financed absolute GHG emissions. In line with the ‘Financial Sector Climate Commitment Guideline on relevant financing, investments and action plans’ FMO has prioritized target setting for its power generation portfolio, being an emission-intensive sector. Secondly, a strategic target has been set in the form of the €10 billion SDG 13 target. FMO aims to have developed a portfolio of at least €10 billion in investments dedicated to SDG 13 goals by 2030. An ex- ante assessment is made to assess an investment’s potential impact and its related contribution to SDG 13, determining eligibility to receive the Green Label. The Green Label includes positive impact contributions to for instance climate change mitigation and adaptation and biodiversity. While it is no direct emission reduction target, the Green Label as a tool to steer towards FMO’s €10 billion SDG 13 target will contribute to reduced emissions in FMO’s investments portfolio and overall positive impact to SDG 13. Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. Since the Power Emission Reduction Target is the only target related to GHG emission reduction, disclosures requirements focusing on emission reductions are only applicable to this target. Table 14 in the 'E1 Impact, risks and opportunities' section indicates to which IRO the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target and the €10 billion SDG 13 target relates to. Table 17 provides information on the Power Generation Emission Reduction target, whereas the relevant details for the €10 billion SDG 13 target are presented in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Table 17. Minimum Disclosure Requirement for Power Generation Emission Reduction Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) 50 percent emission reduction in FMO's financed Scope 1 power generation emissions by 2030. Scope of target The power generation target GHG emissions include active investments that have production of electricity (NACE code 35.11) as their main economic activity. They are calculated based on customers’ Scope 1 emissions, attributed in line with the PCAF Global Standard. The outstanding amounts include FMO-A, public funds and mobilized capital. Baseline value 624 ktCO2e Baseline year 2021 Application period 2021 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets None 2 147 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Methodologies and assumptions The target is based on a calculated 1.5oC pathway provided by the REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4 database, using the Orderly - net zero 2050 scenario for electricity. This scenario is broken down by region, and country income level (upper middle income, lower middle income, low income using World Bank categorization) within regions, using our best estimate of proxies where there is no perfect match. The REMIND-MAgPIE 3.0-4.4 database is a scenario of the NGFS, which has as its goal meeting the goals of the Paris agreement. REMIND-MAgPIE is a comprehensive Integrated Assessment Model that simulates the dynamics within and between the energy, land use, water, air pollution and health, economy, and climate systems. It has been assumed that the portfolio distribution at country-income level will remain constant up to 2030 compared to 2021. Moreover, power production growth projections are based on 2030 Strategy projections, including direct mobilized funds (average of ~8.0 percent p.a. between 2021-2030). Thereafter, a projection of 4 percent per year is used. For renewable energy customers without reported emissions data, the assumption is made that their scope 1 emissions are zero. Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) The REMIND-MagPIE scenario is based on the SSP2 scenario defined by the IPCC. Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the CAP, and while taking into consideration the expectations following FMO’s commitment to the Financial Sector commitment to the Dutch Climate Agreement. The CAP was discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting. Changes in target We include only scope 1 emissions, as this is the primary emission driver of power generation plants. For renewable energy customers without reported emissions data, the assumption is made that their scope 1 emissions are zero. In order to compare performance year-on-year, data is aligned according to reporting year to the extent possible. Given that this annual report is published in early 2025, not all 2024 customer data (e.g. emissions data) was available. As a result, the reported 2024 power generation emissions combines 2023 customer emissions data with 2024 portfolio data from FMO (e.g. outstanding amounts). The 2024 number will be finalized in next year’s annual report. The 2023 power generation emissions are, in principle, finalized in this annual report with a value of 510 ktCO2e, based on 2023 portfolio data and 2023 customer data. The baseline for the power generation target is restated in this Annual Report in line with the recalculation approach. The new baseline number is 624 ktCO2e (previous value was 582 ktCO2e). The reason is that emission factors were updated in an internal calculation tool. In order to ensure consistency between baseline and later years, emissions data for 2021 and 2022 was retroactively adjusted for customers where the tool was used – note the tool is not used if customers directly reported emissions. Performance The power generation target GHG emissions were 442 ktCO e in 2024, which is a 29 percent reduction compared to the 2021 baseline. The reduction is due to an overall decrease of our outstanding exposure in operational fossil fuel plants. FMO has set a GHG emission reduction target for financed scope 1 emissions in the power generation portfolio, as described in E1-4. While FMO aims to be net zero by 2050, FMO has not yet set other reduction targets for financed scope 1, 2 and 3, therefore no information and data can be provided regarding such targets. This is due to the many unknowns ahead including how climate change itself will evolve, how our markets and customers will respond, lack of data and what solutions are needed and effective. We seek to carefully balance our climate objectives with customer- or location-specific social and environmental considerations, including the need for a just and inclusive transition. FMO will focus in the short-term on striving to align financial flows with 1.5oC aligned activities and is working on an approach to measure this. FMO will consider setting additional targets to further align financial flows. We will continue to improve our data collection, including at the level of our customers, and use it to assess and monitor our progress, as a component of our climate action project workstream. The progress made regarding the Power Generation Reduction Emission Target has been disclosed in table 17. The baseline value is considered representative as there are no indications that for the power generation portfolio the activities covered and influences from external factors in the base year were significantly different to other years. Table 17 provides information on the scientific base used to define the Power Generation Emission Reduction Target. Since no other targets for GHG emission reduction exist, no other progress can be disclosed, nor can information be provided on how it has been ensured that the baseline value of such targets is representative in terms of activities covered and influences from external factors. 2 148 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"J.V. (Koos) Timmermans (Vice- chair SB, Chair ARC) M. (Marjolein) Demmers (member SB, Chair Impact Committee, member SARC) R.P.F. (Reintje) van Haeringen (member SB, Chair SARC, member Impact Committee) Dutch, 1960, male Dutch, 1967, female Dutch, 1963, female Appointment in current position: 2017 - 2025 (AGM 2026) (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Appointment in current position: 2020 - 2028 (second term) Experience: Supervisory, Banking, Finance, Sustainability, International relations, Risk & Regulatory Experience: Supervisory, NGOs, Sustainability, Compliance, Operations Experience: Supervisory, Development, Poverty reduction Positions: 1. Member of the Supervisory Board of PostNL 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of Havenbedrijf Rotterdam (Port Authority Rotterdam) 3. Board Member Administratie Kantoor Vopak 4. Board Member Administratie Kantoor Philips 5. Member Advisory Board Van Lanschot Kempen 6. Member Supervisory Board KWF Dutch Cancer Society 7. Member of the Supervisory Board of NN 8. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Principal position: Director/CEO of Dutch environmental NGO “Natuur & Milieu” Other positions: 1. Chair of the Supervisory Board of DRIFT (research, consultancy and education in transitions) 2. Board member of SKAO (Schemabeheerder CO2-prestatieladder) 3. Member of the Strategic Advisory Council of TNO ISP (ICT, Policy & Strategy) 4. Member of the Sustainability Board Van Oord 5. Member of the Advisory Council Environmental Sciences Group (ESG), WUR 6. Member Raad van Toezicht Stichting Sustainable Industry Lab (SIL), UU 7. Member Raad van Toezicht Stichting Robin Food Coalition (research and collaboration in the food transition) 8. Member Steering Board KIN – Klimaatonderzoek Initiatief Nederland – Science for Accelerating Transitions (NWO) 9. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO Principal position: CEO CARE Nederland Other positions: 1. Board member of the ‘Samenwerkende Hulp Organisaties’ (SHO/Giro555) 2. Chair of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Relief Alliance 3. Member Advisory Board of 4TU’s initiative on resilience 4. Member of Steering Committee KUNO, a platform for humanitarian knowledge exchange 5. Member of the Supervisory Board of FMO 59 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
RISK MANAGEMENT 03
"This chapter provides an overview of FMO's risk governance and risk management approach. The sections describe the risk domains relevant to FMO and developments throughout 2024. Together with the quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures - available on FMO's website - it constitutes FMO's Pillar 3 disclosure. Risk governance FMO defines risk as the effect of uncertainty on objectives. FMO has a comprehensive framework in place to manage and control risk, reflecting its banking license, State Support Agreement and a mandate that involves doing business in increased risk countries. The risk management framework helps us realize our ambitions and safeguard our viability. Risk management practices are integrated across the organization, from day-to-day activities to strategic planning, to ensure both compliance with relevant regulations and adherence to the risk appetite. A sound risk management framework is in place to preserve FMO's integrity, which is essential for fulfilling its mission and upholding its good reputation. The Management Board defines and promotes the desired corporate culture and high ethical and professional standards. Employees are encouraged to take the right risks in an informed manner, with integrity and careful consideration of the interests of all stakeholders. The risk management framework is based on the 'three lines model', where the first line (Investment department and supporting functions) is challenged and advised by the second line (Risk department, Compliance department and Credit department), and the third line (Internal Audit) that performs independent assessments of the functioning of the first and second line. The organizational structure is shown below. The Management Board has established risk committees to assist it in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities regarding the risk appetite of FMO, the risk management framework and the governance structure that supports it. The risk committees and their responsibilities are described below: The Financial Risk Committee (FRC). The FRC is appointed by the Management Board for the purpose of monitoring, challenging and deciding upon the execution of financial risk management within FMO. The Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC). The NFRC is appointed by the Management Board for the purpose of monitoring, challenging and deciding upon the execution of non-financial risk and strategic risk management within FMO. Both the FRC and NFRC are chaired by the Chief Risk Officer (or Director Risk in her absence). Several sub-committees report into the FRC and NFRC, such as the Investment Committee, the Integrity and RISK MANAGEMENT 63 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"strategic goals and objectives are cascaded down to the investment departments, which are supported by the respective Impact and ESG+ departments for managing impacts and opportunities. These departments are responsible for identifying the areas in which FMO can work with customers to minimize our negative impacts and optimize our development impacts, to build customer capabilities and for the integration of sustainable standards in our investment processes. The Credit department is responsible for performing an independent review of FMO’s impact assessments at an investment level. The Finance, Impact and Data department, together with the Strategy department, prepares periodic reports to monitor progress on our strategic goals and operational targets, from both a financial and impact perspective. These are discussed with the Management Board on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Other relevant sustainability-related developments can be brought to the Management Board’s or ISCO's attention when deemed necessary. For a description of the procedures to manage ESG risks and FMO’s risk management framework, please refer to the 'Risk management' chapter. Skills and expertise As an impact-driven development finance institution, operating in emerging markets, we deal with a diverse group of stakeholders and topics. The Management Board aims to have a diverse composition with respect to gender, education, experience and age as well as relevant knowledge, expertise and experience in the business areas in which FMO is active. This includes sustainability-related matters, which are core to FMO’s mission. Having an up-to-date understanding of the topic is important for all board members. The Management Board and Supervisory Board can rely on internal experts or hire external experts, should the topic in hand require it. Moreover, the Supervisory Board and Management Board follow a Lifelong Learning Plan where besides, for example, topics that are required by the Dutch Banking Code, sustainability-related matters are included from time to time. The knowledge and experience we have at Supervisory Board and Management Board level relates to FMOs development goals, which includes contributing to in particular SDGs 8, 10 and 13. Sustainability-related matters addressed The Management Board is informed and discusses progress on material sustainability-related impacts and opportunities on a quarterly basis via the Integrated Quarterly Reports. These reports are prepared by the Strategy department to enable the Management Board to monitor progress towards our strategy, including progress on this year’s three priorities: 1) growing impactful business, which among other things includes progress on investments related to SDGs 8, 10 and 13; 2) improving our capabilities; and 3) regulatory compliance, financial sustainability and risk management. The Management Board discusses the Risk Appetite Report every quarter and assesses whether the ESG risk and climate risks are within risk-appetite levels. If this is not the case, the Management Board discusses ways to steer our portfolio back towards risk-appetite levels. With regard to the approval of policies that touch upon ESG and climate risk, the Management Board generally invites representatives of the departments involved to the meeting to discuss the pros and cons and thereafter decides whether to approve the proposed policy. The same goes for prospective investments that have an ESG, climate or sustainability-related element that poses a dilemma. In general, the representatives of the departments involved elaborate on their point of view. Thereafter, the Management Board takes a decision on whether to invest, sometimes subject to conditions. The Supervisory Board Impact Committee acts as a sounding board for the Management Board with regard to sustainability-related matters. For information on the topics discussed by the Supervisory Board and its committees, refer to the 'Corporate governance' section. For a list of impacts, risks and opportunities that were addressed by the Management Board, Supervisory Board or their relevant committees, refer to the section on impact, risk and opportunity management included in each topical standard. Sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes FMO's remuneration policy includes no direct relationship between sustainability-related elements such as the avoidance or reduction of GHG emissions and remuneration elements such as a pay-for- performance system in which the achievement of individual or team targets related to climate/emissions results in an (additional) reward element or benefits. Sustainability-related goals and ambitions, as stated in FMO's strategy, are translated into an annual corporate business plan and goals per department/team. The contribution to the annual performance related to these goals and ambitions is part of the annual performance and appraisal interviews. The specific individual contribution towards 129 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"FMO's sustainability agenda varies greatly by role. Therefore, along with many other elements, while sustainability-related performance can contribute in part to individual annual performances, it only has an indirect effect on remuneration. Further information on FMO’s remuneration policy is provided in the sub-chapter ‘Corporate governance’ in the section ‘Aligned remuneration policies’. ESRS 2 Risk management and internal controls The risk management and internal control system associated with the sustainability reporting process is currently partially integrated into FMO's comprehensive risk governance and risk management framework, with work being undertaken for full alignment. More details can be found in the 'Future actions' section. The governance of non-financial risk in FMO follows the three lines model. First line – management monitors whether the (key) controls in their area of responsibility are functioning effectively or need any improvement. For this purpose, they assess through direct or indirect feedback and evidence the effectiveness of the (key) controls in place. Second line - for non-financial risk is performed by the Operational Risk Management team (ORM) and the Compliance department. They perform independent testing on an agreed subset of key controls. These tests verify if Control Monitoring activities have resulted in a correct assessment of the effectiveness of the controls. Third line – Internal Audit performs independent oversight over non-financial risk and internal control. The mandate and responsibilities of Internal Audit are described in the Audit Charter. Control monitoring and testing is facilitated by ORM twice a year, in November and in June. ORM provides guidance, training and sampling instructions, and reports the results of control monitoring and testing, as well as the progress of control remediation, to the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC). Internal Control activities follow a yearly cycle and are aligned with the financial reporting process, because the results are used to substantiate the Management Board’s In Control Statement (ICS) in the annual report. Detailed information is provided in the 'Risk Management' chapter in the 'Risk governance' section and 'Non-financial risk' sub-chapter. FMO’s approach to the annual reporting of findings of risk assessment and internal controls to administrative, management and supervisory bodies, can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter, in the section 'Risk governance'. The purpose of FMO’s annual report is to be complaint with both existing regulations as well as additional external commitments which are not prescribed by law but have been made on a voluntary basis. Through the annual report FMO ensures that we report in line with sustainability reporting standards which include a compliant and timely report, as well as accurate and complete data and narrative. As such, when it comes to sustainability reporting, two layers of risks have been identified: the first level relates to key risks to process and content, while the second level goes with more granularity into the controls over the data and policies reported in our 'Sustainability statement'. Four categories of key risks have currently been identified; two that address the process and two that address our sustainability-related data and narrative, included in our 'Sustainability statement'. 1. Report is compliant with regulations and standards (process). 2. The report is on time (process). 3. Data is accurate and complete (content). 4. Narrative is accurate and complete (content). For all identified key risks, controls and mitigation actions are in place. To ensure the sustainability report is compliant with regulations and standards, the Risk department actively monitors new regulations and identifies changes that need to be addressed. Checks are performed throughout the sustainability reporting process to make sure all applicable regulatory requirements are included. Timeliness of the report is managed as part of business-as-usual activities, adhering to an agreed-upon timeline with internal escalation routes in case of unexpected delays. For data accuracy and completeness, FMO has implemented manager approvals and four-eye principle checks as controls on data to the first level of risk. Controls on data and policies for the second level of risks are currently 130 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"being formalized. To ensure the narrative's accuracy and completeness, the report undergoes multiple levels of review within FMO. At FMO, risks are prioritized based on their severity, which is assessed using two factors: probability and impact. Probability measures how likely a risk event is to occur. Impact considers the potential consequences, which can include operational loss, financial errors, failure to meet business goals, regulatory issues, or damage to reputation. Risk severity is assessed based on probability and impact, and classified as high, medium, or low. This corresponds to a 'Level of Concern' (LoC) rating: high (LoC 3), medium (LoC 2), or low (LoC 1). Depending on the severity, actions are required: High (LoC 3): actions must be completed within 3-6 months. Medium (LoC 2): actions should be completed within 6-9 months. Low (LoC 1): actions are optional. As the four risks identified as part of the first layer are key risks, they have a high LoC, while the risks in the second layer have been qualified with a medium LoC. The risks within the first layer have controls in place that are regularly being monitored and tested by their designated owners, in line with FMO’s approach. While for the second layer of risks related to data, controls are in place, but only some of them are being actively monitored as part of FMO’s overall risk governance and risk management approach. FMO is currently working on integrating the controls not regularly monitored and tested within the organization’s overall risk and management approach. Future actions FMO adheres to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Code is maintained by the Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code and supported by the ‘schragende partijen’ (supporting parties) consisting of Eumedion, Euronext, FNV, CNV, Vereniging van Effecten Bezitters (VEB), de Vereniging van Effecten Uitgevende Ondernemingen (VEUO) and VNO-NCW. The supporting parties and the Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants have suggested amending the Code to include a ‘Verklaring omtrent Risicobeheersing’ (VOR). According to this proposal, listed companies and other companies following the Dutch Corporate Governance Code will be required to include for the first time in the annual report on 2025 a disclosure statement on risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting. Although sustainability reporting guidelines such as CSRD / ESRS are not embedded in the Corporate Governance code yet, FMO would like to adhere to these requirements as soon as possible. ESRS calls for a connectivity between the 'Financial Statements' and 'Sustainability statement' both from the process perspective and disclosures perspective. As this is the first time reporting, FMO recognizes this as a point of attention. It is up to the Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code to amend the Code to accommodate the VOR proposal. In a letter to the Dutch parliament, the minister of finance encourages the (to be appointed) Monitoring Committee to include the VOR. 131 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E1 Climate Change E1 Introduction In its 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan, FMO presents a set of ambitions, targets and actions to contribute to climate change mitigation and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction. SDG 13 on Climate Change is one of the core components of our 2030 Strategy. An important component of FMO's climate ambition is that it contributes to a just and inclusive transition. We recognize that environmental and social objectives are inextricably linked. For FMO, this represents both the synergies and necessity of pursuing our core SDG goals SDGs 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), 10 (Reducing Inequalities), and 13 (Climate Action) together, if we are to be successful in contributing to any of them individually. FMO acknowledges that climate change will undermine sustainable development goals if not urgently addressed. This implies that FMO’s customers (both current and new) might face new and never previously experienced risks from negative climate change consequences. The rise in weather and climate extremes has already led to some irreversible effects, while the preservation of ecosystems is essential for human well-being and the achievement of the SDGs. FMO recognizes that development finance is urgently needed to contribute to SDG 13, and to support an inclusive and just transition. FMO steers its investments towards those aiming at contributing to a positive impact towards SDG 13, such as investments related to climate adaptation, resilience and mitigation, while managing possible negative impacts. E1 Impacts, risks and opportunities Based on our double materiality assessment (DMA), we have identified the following impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) related to the topic of climate change. Table 14 Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Climate change mitigation Actual negative impact Financed emissions contributing negatively to climate change. Financed emissions Short term Downstream Investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. Power Generation Emission Reduction Target Climate change adaptation Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of investments throughout agricultural supply chains on climate change adaptation through the increase of sustainable, resource efficient and resilient practices and business models. These investments aim to enhance the readiness and capacity of stakeholders to address changing weather patterns and extreme events (e.g. droughts or floods) associated with climate change. Contribution to climate adaptation through investments. Long term Downstream Investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals; Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. SDG 13 Target 132 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Climate change mitigation Potential positive impact Impact through climate mitigation as a result of investments into renewable energy production capacity, CO2 storage and energy infrastructure in developing countries and fragile states, financing the transition away from fossil fuels and thus reducing overall GHG emissions. Contribution to climate mitigation through investments. Medium term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Energy Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of renewable energy production capacity and energy infrastructure investments to reduce volatility of energy prices experienced using fossil fuel sources, and increase the stability of local energy grids and production capacity, as well as strengthen resilience against extreme weather events caused by climate change, contributing overall to better climate change resilience and adaptation for beneficiaries. Contribution to renewable energy production capacity through investments. Medium term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals, Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Climate change adaptation Potential positive impact The potential positive impact of investing in FI's to provide climate financing, including the use of innovative technologies, such as FinTech, or financial instruments to entrepreneurs or FI's in developing countries, providing new access to financing of climate resilience solutions. Contribution to increased access to financing of climate resilience solutions. Long term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy CAP: Increasing climate investments and support to our customers. Climate change adaptation Opportunity The opportunity for FMO to identify, create and develop new markets relating to climate adaptation (e.g. climate smart and resilient solutions) into bankable projects, to deploy and attract public or private funds and generate return on investment at scale. Opportunity to create new markets related to climate adaptation. Upstream, Downstream investment portfolio CAP: Increasing climate investments to support our customers. No specific target Climate change mitigation Risk Risk of not achieving net zero alignment by 2050, caused by misaligned investment decisions or poor progress by clients and beneficiaries, resulting in reputational, legal and financial issues. Risk of not being in the path to Net Zero. Own operations CAP: Aligning our portfolio and investments with the Paris Agreement goals. No specific target 133 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of climate hazards having a material impact on client creditworthiness, caused primarily by effects from acute physical climate hazards such as floods, wildfires, droughts and other extreme weather events. Risk of physical climate hazards on clients. Downstream investment portfolio Climate Risk Policy CAP: Active management of our climate action. No specific target Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of choosing inefficient climate mitigation innovations or some which have the need to be further developed. Investments in the innovative sector have the potential of not being profitable. Risk of investing in inefficient climate mitigation innovations. Downstream investment portfolio No specific target Climate change adaptation Risk The risk of FIs being affected by macroeconomic conditions in the event of a chaotic transition to a low-carbon economy (i.e. rapid, large changes in policy, financing or sentiment), or as a result of the ineffective transition and adaptation to the new reality of climate change, resulting in financial damage to FMO. Risk of a chaotic transition to low-carbon economy. Downstream investment portfolio Climate Risk Policy CAP: Active management of our climate action. No specific target FMO’s DMA, as described in 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', identified potential negative impacts through financed absolute emissions and potential positive impacts through investments in climate adaptation, climate mitigation and renewable energy as well as physical and transition risks. The Climate Risk Report and Climate Action Plan (CAP), both prepared in 2022, provided important input for determining FMO’s climate-related IROs. Impacts Both positive and negative impacts take place downstream in our investment portfolio. The impact of our own operations or those of our upstream suppliers are not considered material because of the small scale of emissions compared to those in our portfolio. The CAP describes how FMO actively monitors its activities and portfolio, thereby identifying actual and potential future GHG emission sources and other climate-related impacts within its operations and across its value chains. The intent of our data/ information collection drive is not only to use the information we gather for reporting and compliance purposes, but to actively manage our portfolio better, and to tailor our climate actions towards what is most effective. We will continue to work on improving our internal management and reporting systems to actively manage progress towards our sustainability goals. As part of our ESG management process we uphold IFC Performance Standard 3 (IFC PS3) (addressing resource efficiency and pollution prevention), which includes minimizing the pollution from project activities. When project related emissions are potentially significant, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g. use of renewable energy sources, sustainable agricultural, the reduction of fugitive emissions, etc.) that avoid or reduce emissions in order to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment (IFC PS3). FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for integrating emission reduction into product design and operational processes (IFC PS3). Specifically, ""this applies to the release of pollutants to air, water, and land due to routine, non- routine, and accidental circumstances with the potential for local, regional, and transboundary impacts."" Transboundary pollutants include those covered under the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary 134 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Air Pollution, such VOCs that are key precursors in the formation of tropospheric ozone and particulate matter (of which black carbon is a significant component). This means that by upholding the IFC PS we indirectly screen investments for climate-related impacts, such as black carbon and tropospheric ozone. FMO reports on financed absolute emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3 in line with the GHG Protocol, as described in more detail in section 'E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions'. The financed absolute GHG emissions are reported in line with the Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry published by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). Although emissions from FMO operations are not considered material, we will continue to report scope 1 and 2 emissions to be able to present a full picture of our GHG emission footprint. Risks & opportunities The material climate-related risks and opportunities for FMO occur both upstream and downstream in the investment portfolio. The climate-related risks identified in the DMA are aligned with internal risk assessment processes and documents. The assessment of climate risks happens on an ongoing basis at FMO. We run a portfolio scan on a quarterly basis that is reported to the Financial Risk Committee (FRC), which monitors our portfolio’s exposure to physical and transition risks. We also conduct materiality assessments which determine the potential for climate risk drivers to affect FMO’s portfolio or the entity itself. Both processes are discussed with the FRC. Furthermore, work is ongoing to embed climate risk assessments at the organizational level as well as within the investment cycle. The regular climate risk assessments inform the Financial Risk team’s decisions. Scenarios are considered and factors are stressed in FMO’s Internal Capital and Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Processes (ICAAP and ILAAP), which are aligned with our regular Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) cycle. FMO’s physical climate risks were assessed over the current, medium and long-term using a high- emissions scenario and in line with guidelines from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the ECB guide on Climate-related and Environmental Risks. While the climate risk assessment covers physical risks and transition risks, the various time horizons and high-emissions scenario were applied only to physical risks. FMO is currently working on further defining a methodology to assess transition risks that is suitable for the markets in which it operates. The climate risks associated with FMO’s investment portfolio are also described in FMO’s first climate risk report, which, as mentioned above, are aligned with the climate-related risks identified in the DMA. This report was written in line with the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) requirements and shows that FMO’s portfolio is exposed to climate change risks, which will increase over time, with clear differences across locations, sectors and hazard types. This analysis, as well as those resulting from FMO’s ICAAP and ILAAP and continuous monitoring, served as input for the DMA, where additional transition risks (and opportunities) were identified. The climate scenarios used are currently independent of the financial models, as FMO currently does not include climate-related assumptions in the financial models. FMO will explore assessing possible inclusion of climate-related risks in our financial models based on expected credit losses. As part of our DMA, we identified a specific downstream (portfolio) risk related to water (E3) that we feel is better addressed under the risk of climate hazards here in E1: “There is a global risk of increased water scarcity due to climate change, increased water withdrawals and unsustainable water practices. This affects costs of production through higher water prices and leads to reduced crop yield and failure.” This is covered by the current climate hazards risk described in Table 14. Physical risks FMO plans to perform a physical risk assessment in line with the recommendations set out by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the ECB guide on Climate-related and Environmental Risks (ECB, 2021). For this reason we have developed a C&E risk assessment tool that supports the identification and monitoring of C&E risks at the customer level. The tool currently focuses mainly on physical climate risks. 135 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Various physical risks (flooding, temperature extremes, fire, water stress, drought, erosion, tropical cyclones and crop yield loss) are assessed based on a multiplication of hazard scores at specific locations or regions and sensitivity scores (specific to the sector/industry of the investment/business activity) to these hazards. The climate-related physical hazards have been identified over current-, medium- and long-term time horizons. For the physical climate risks, current-, medium- and long-term time horizons have been defined as follows: Current-term: 2011-2040 Medium-term: 2041-2070 Long-term: 2071-2100 These time horizons are different from the time horizons specified by the ESRS. The time horizons used are in line with standard practice in the climate science community, where climate refers to the long- term weather pattern in a region, typically averaged over 30 years. In some cases, if the original data source did not overlap with these time horizons, the closest time period was chosen. The physical risk assessments are currently not tied to the lifetime of the exposure. Even if human-induced climate changes would not materialize in the near future under the climatological time horizon, foreseen changes may already affect investment decisions and other financial parameters today and therefore materialize earlier from a financial risk perspective, within the time horizons as specified by the ESRS. The ICAAP assessments consider climate risks over a period of three years. Physical risks hazards are estimated to affect FMO’s customers in various locations and sectors to different extents, according to the climate risk assessment. The physical risks assessed in the climate risk assessments were summarized as one physical risk in the DMA. The various physical risks for FMO’s relevant industries are assessed on an ongoing basis and reported through regular reviews within internal committees at portfolio level. To increase the granularity and understanding of these risks, FMO is currently in the process of rolling out physical climate risk assessments in the investment process, complementing the assessment at portfolio level as mentioned above. The scores for physical hazards were created for both acute and chronic hazard types under a high emissions or worst-case climate scenario, which is the IPCC RCP 8.5 scenario. RCP 4.5 was also considered, but the projections from RCP 8.5 cover a greater range of climate conditions, especially for the long-term time horizon. Furthermore, the temperature and rainfall changes are more intense under RCP 8.5, and the long-term projections from RCP 4.5 are quite similar to the medium-term projection from RCP 8.5. In conclusion, RCP 8.5 covers a wider range of climate conditions (more extremes) for the risk assessment, so we believe this is the more appropriate choice, as it better covers potential risks and uncertainties. RCP 8.5 makes the following assumptions about policies, macro-economic trends, energy usage and mix, and technology: Policy Assumptions: It assumes minimal or no additional climate policies beyond those already in place, leading to high GHG emissions. Macroeconomic Trends: The scenario includes assumptions about high population growth and relatively slow income growth. Energy Usage and Mix: It projects high energy demand with a continued reliance on fossil fuels, resulting in significant GHG emissions. Technology Assumptions: The scenario assumes modest rates of technological change and improvements in energy intensity, meaning that advancements in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies are not sufficient to offset the high energy demand. The scores for physical hazards were derived from climate models listed in the IPCC CMIP5 and CMIP6 protocols, where available. Each hazard was evaluated using a specifically chosen modeling method and simulated hazard exposure outputs from leading, peer-reviewed research institutions, and was further developed in partnership with well-known research institutions. The risk scores were created and standardized at an approximate 50x50 km spatial resolution as a level 1 detailed product. If grid location or country data was missing for an investment or loan, it was excluded from the analysis. Additionally, if 136 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the provided location data was not at least at the country level (e.g. listed as ‘Global’ or ‘Latin America’), it was also not included in the analysis. Transition risks Transition risks are described in FMO’s climate risk methodology. FMO is currently in the process of adjusting its transition risk methodology with a specific focus on considering how this risk can materialize and affect clients in unique ways based on the different markets where FMO invests. In addition, further developments are ongoing, for example: The Paris Alignment methodology was developed in 2023-2024, and it will apply to new investments after its implementation (as described in further detail in E1-3). ICAAP and ILAAP stress testing as described in 'E1 Resilience Analysis'. The transition risks identified in the current assessment framework are focused on industry sensitivities. Additionally, transitional risks and opportunities were identified and scored as material during the DMA 2024 process due to the inputs from interviews and discussions with the project group. We currently do not perform a climate transition risk assessment for new investments, but only at portfolio level. FMO evaluates its exposures to transition risk at portfolio level by considering industry sensitivities, as well as a range of specific energy technologies, various transition risk (drivers) and scale possible risk exposure from 1-5. These risks were taken as input for the DMA, which have been summarized into three transition risks, as presented in the overview table at the start of this section. The risks outlined in the (internal) climate risk assessment align with the risks identified by the DMA. The transition risk assessment at portfolio level analyzes the transition risks (policy and legal; technology- related; market-related and reputational risks) for the various sectors in our portfolio in more detail than the DMA provides. Furthermore, our ICAAP 2022 includes information on the identification of transition events and assessment of exposure informed by climate-related scenario analysis. Our ICAAP from 2023 covers more detail on transition events, and an assessment of exposure based on the stress test assumptions for transition risk, where a disorderly transition is tested. The transition risk assessments mentioned in the 2022 risk assessment are less mature than the physical risks. We are currently updating the transition risk assessment methodology. The transition risks are not yet linked to current-, medium- and long-term time horizons, and these horizons have not been yet defined (transition trends, however, have been linked to current-, medium- and long-term time horizons). We have finalized the methodology for Paris Alignment in 2024. This methodology will enable FMO to identify activities that are incompatible with, or need significant efforts to be compatible with, transition to an economy that is aligned with the climate goals in the Paris Agreement. New transactions will be assessed for alignment with the Paris Agreement goals once the methodology has been rolled out. In the remainder of the E1 chapter, we describe the policies, actions, targets and decarbonization levers related to the IROs that were identified during the DMA, as well as FMO's resilience analysis. E1 Resilience analysis The section 'E1-IRO' describes the material climate-related risks, including whether they are classified as physical or transition risks. To determine the resilience of both its investment portfolio and its own operations, FMO is required by the DNB to assess material risks under the Internal ICAAP and ILAAP through stress testing. FMO’s upstream value chain is not included in this resilience assessment and was also not found to be material by the DMA. The ICAAP and ILAAP assessments are conducted every year, though the depth of the assessments differs depending on whether a SREP runs in a specific year. The frequency of the latter is decided upon by the DNB based on the risk profile of the institution but is typically done on an annual basis. The ICAAP and 137 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"ILAAP assessments are aligned with FMO’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), which formulates the type and amount of risk that the bank is able and willing to accept in pursuit of its strategy. The 2023 version of the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments was the latest one that was part of a SREP. Some additional analyses took place in Q1 of 2024 based on feedback from DNB. Part of the input for the stress tests that were performed for this assessment cycle was based on a Climate Risk Analytics Methodology for FMO to identify material climate risks. Based on the assessment of physical risks by using this methodology, the countries and hazards with the highest severity and likelihood have been selected as input to the stress test. Transition risks have also been included, based on scenarios developed by the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS). Based on the outcomes of the DMA, the focus of FMO’s climate-related risks is on its investment portfolio rather than its own operations or upstream value chain. All material risks as identified in DMA were already included in the materiality assessment underlying the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments. The 2023 ICAAP and ILAAP assessments used 2022 as a base year to make a forecast for the period 2023 - 2025.The climate risk stress testing includes both physical and transition risks, based on established climate scenarios (IPCC, NGFS) to evaluate potential impact on FMO’s portfolio. The ICAAP and ILAAP assessment use stress testing scenarios that include macroeconomic factors, such as currency fluctuations and market volatility. A ‘disorderly transition’ scenario to a low-carbon economy has been formulated with help of experts, which has been used to evaluate potential transitions risks for FMO. This scenario assumed 1) policy & legal risks in the form of carbon pricing, asset stranding, and rising insurance costs, 2) technology and innovation risks in the form of advancements in renewable energy and battery technologies, 3) market risks resulting from changing consumer and market sentiments, and 4) reputation risks resulting from adverse reputational impacts, such as changing perceptions of financing high-carbon activities. The stress tests show that FMO is resilient to material climate risks. Both physical and transition risks under different scenarios have limited impact on liquidity and are within the risk appetite formulated by FMO. Additionally, FMO’s capital position remains adequate, and the excess capital remains robust under all circumstances simulated by the stress test scenarios. Specifically, the climate risks scenarios show that, despite the risks that are relevant for FMO and for the markets in which FMO operates, the impact on the capital position is estimated to remain limited. There were several limitations to the resilience analysis. First, the definition of the physical climate risks used include the fact that the risk definitions are ex-ante and model based, do not include potential adaptation measures, and use a top-down, national level approach. Reliability for these types of risks was further limited by the use of proxy data to fill in data gaps, applying averages over long time- periods, and not including all potential hazards. Secondly, with regards to transition risks, the risk assessment is predominantly based on qualitative information, reducing its systemization and comparability, and not allowing for granularity (e.g., at country-level). While there are inherent uncertainties to climate change and society’s response to it, FMO continues to improve its methodology and run (stress) scenario analyses to capture plausible but severe scenarios for the institution. As mentioned previously, the stress testing done for the resilience analysis is in line with FMO’s RAF. The RAF is monitored, managed and revised regularly to accommodate any market or organizational changes, and is reviewed by the Management Board and approved by the Supervisory Board on an annual basis. If necessary, it can be revised on a semi-annual basis in case of material developments. The outcomes of the ICAAP and ILAAP assessments are used to formulate possible strategic responses. Climate- and environmental risks are inherently material to FMO’s business model & strategic risks, but this risk is also well managed by means of monitoring and reviewing of its business environment and strategic planning embedded within the organization and periodically reviewed with its stakeholders. Currently, the conclusion is that the risks to capital and liquidity related to climate change are well- managed by FMO and do not constitute a risk for the resilience of the business model. In addition to monitoring and managing risks, FMO has a pro-active investment strategy that contributes to climate adaptation and mitigation worldwide, also specifically aiming to increase the resilience of its customers, by engaging actively with them to define climate adaptation solutions and 138 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
""
"E3 Water and Marine Resources E3 Introduction FMO recognizes the critical role of water management in supporting climate and nature goals, ecosystems, and economic development. FMO invests in projects dependent on freshwater resources in the water, energy and agrifood portfolios, and impacts are expected regarding both water quality and water availability. As part of the impact management strategy, FMO has an ambition to invest in water efficient projects that align with the wider goals of environmental protection, safeguard affected communities, and ensure the sustainable use of water resources. By addressing water impacts, FMO aims to contribute to sustainable development and help mitigate the negative impacts of climate change on water resources. E3 Impacts, risks and opportunities The following table provides an overview of how each impact, risk and opportunity (IRO) relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. The impacts caused by our own operations fell below the materiality threshold. However, two negative impacts in our investment portfolio are considered to be material. It should be noted that the double materiality assessment (DMA) for E1 on Climate included a Climate Risk Assessment, through which a material financial risk related to water dependency was identified. This risk will be reported under 'E1 Climate change' as it relates to climate change effects that lead to increased water scarcity. Table 23. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Water withdrawals Actual negative impact The actual negative impacts on water quality and availability resulting from significant water usage or degradation by customers and/or projects financed by FMO. Water scarcity and degradation undermine the long-term sustainability of water resources, posing risks to ecosystems, biodiversity, and the livelihoods of communities dependent on water for agriculture and other purposes Degraded water quality and reduced availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target Water withdrawals Actual negative impact Actual impact on water withdrawals through the creation of reservoirs because of construction of hydro power dams and/or generators by our customers. Water availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target E3-1 Policies Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material water- related IROs. The Sustainability Policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts in our downstream value chain and is part of the Sustainability Policy Universe. The ESG management approach for screening and monitoring customers with regard to potential negative impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. FMO has adopted 169 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) as its operating standard. The following documents are relevant for water: a. IFC PS3, 4 and 6 provide specific guidance on water related topics, as they respectively cover Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, Community Health, Safety, and Security, and Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. b. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. FMO’s policies that address water-related impacts are aimed at reducing the material negative impacts downstream in FMO’s value chain. FMO aims to support customers to improve their sustainable use of natural resources, such as water, and to prevent degradation of ecosystems. FMO assesses its direct and indirect potential and existing investments over time according to ESG criteria such as the presence and quality of the E&S management system, availability, quantity and quality of resources such as water for local communities and related impacts on resource efficiency including the consumption and use of water. The scope of this assessment applies to the financed activities and their primary suppliers, though FMO may look beyond the direct financed activities when salient risks are expected in the value chain. Potable water availability or sanitary wastewater collection, treatment, or discharge are also considered, whereby opportunities are explored to improve these aspects, especially where these can be provided at marginal cost to the project. When projects are a potentially significant consumer of water, in addition to applying the resource efficiency requirements of the IFC PS3, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g., use of additional water conservation measures, the use of alternative water supplies, water consumption offsets, evaluation of alternative project locations) that avoid or reduce water usage so that the project’s water consumption does not have significant negative impacts. FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for improving efficiency in its consumption of water, integrating the principles of cleaner production into product design and production processes with the objective of conserving water. Policies related to water management pertain to an organization's own operations. Since FMO's own operations were not identified as material in the DMA, this type of water management policies is not relevant for FMO. Since the water-related impacts that were identified to be material for FMO are not related to our own operations, there are no policies required to address water stress near one of FMO’s operating sites. E3-2 Key actions As part of the normal due diligence process, we identify performance gaps against our standards, and we agree with our customers on improvements that are required in relation to negative impacts on water and marine resources (e.g. impact of hazardous materials on ecosystem services, degradation of natural resources, water usage etc.). These improvements are translated into an action plan (ESAP) which is incorporated into the contract. The ESAP also stipulates timelines for the customers to close the actions (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'). Compliance with the ESAP and closing of actions is monitored as part of the customer credit review process which takes place annually. Where incidents take place, a corrective action plan may be required to mitigate and possibly remediate the impact; this can be agreed with the customer. E3-3 Targets FMO has not adopted targets related to water resources. However, FMO’s 90 percent ESG performance target includes but is not limited to water impact from related investments (incl. IFC PS3, 4 and 6). Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. 170 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E4 Introduction FMO recognizes the value of ecosystems that form the natural capital for the world economy. Their degradation poses a direct risk for FMO’s customers and the societies in which they operate. When we talk about biodiversity, we look at it from a broader perspective, taking into consideration nature and natural capital. While biodiversity and nature are not always explicitly singled out as specific objectives in the way FMO manages on sustainability-related matters (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO Management'). FMO’s impact management procedures are aligned with environmental conservation, sustainable use of natural resources, and protection of ecosystems. Furthermore, they promote consideration of how investments affect biodiversity and the pursuit of investments that support nature-based solutions and conservation goals. FMO aims to achieve positive impacts through biodiversity finance that are focused on for instance nature-based solutions and forestry- and regenerative agriculture investments. As per the 2030 Strategy, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity. Together with our partners, FMO committed to engage on climate adaptation and resilience, and biodiversity, by creating coalitions with key nature conservancy organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, promoting community and stakeholder engagement. E4 Impacts, risks and opportunities Table 24 below gives an overview of how each material IRO relates to policies, actions, and targets, which will be covered in the sections of this statement. Table 24. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential negative impact Impact on biodiversity from AFW investments as a result of land-use changes (e.g. deforestation, conversion of natural landscapes), insufficient consideration of the habitat function of agricultural lands through the introduction of monocrops or the use of non-native species agricultural production or poor water management, can contribute to habitat degradation. Land-use change Medium term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in hydro power plants by impacting marine/freshwater species migration paths and changing of natural hydrological cycles. Negative impacts from investments in hydro power plants Short term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target 171 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in large-scale wind turbines can affect bird and other animal migration paths, and can lead to the loss and fragmentation of wildlife habitat. Negative impacts of investments in large-scale wind turbines Medium term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in large-scale solar panels that can lead to the loss and fragmentation of wildlife habitat. Negative impacts of investments in large-scale solar panels Medium term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential positive impact Impact on biodiversity and other ecosystems through the financing of AFW investments and projects that are specifically aimed at ecosystem restoration and regeneration. Finance projects that restore and regenerate ecosystems Long term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy Increase volume of investments related to biodiversity. SDG 13 target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Opportunity The opportunity for FMO to identify, create and develop new markets with a biodiversity positive impact (e.g. forestry projects, regenerative agriculture) into bankable projects, to deploy and attract public or private funds and generate return on investment at scale. Opportunity to develop new biodiversity positive markets Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy Increase volume of investments related to biodiversity. No specific target We identified biodiversity and ecosystems to be a material topic because of our potential and actual positive and negative impacts from our investments in the agrifood, water, and energy sectors (downstream value chain), and because of the developments in biodiversity-positive financing markets that can create material opportunities for FMO. However, currently we do not consider biodiversity a material topic from the financial risk perspective. For more details, please refer to our double materiality assessment process (DMA) as described in 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment'. As part of our assessment on the materiality of the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems in our own operations and downstream value chain we conducted desk research into the agrifood, water and energy sectors looking into international sector standards, peers, trends, and media coverage. Additionally, we considered FMO’s 2030 Strategy and current ways of working (such as our ESG management process, climate risk assessment, Green Label assessments, and forestry strategy). As such, we took into consideration impact drivers such as climate change, land-use change, the impact on marine and freshwater-use, direct exploitation and invasive alien species and pollution, as well as impacts on the state of species, impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems and impacts and dependencies on ecosystem services. While our DMA was being conducted, we were also in the process of creating a methodology to assess our dependency on nature. As this methodology was still in early stages of development during the reporting period, we did not take it into consideration during our DMA. For the methodology to assess dependencies on nature we are applying the ENCORE (Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure) materiality ratings to help evaluate our exposure to nature- 172 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"related risks, and to better understand our dependencies and impacts on nature. We expect to continue developing our methodology and improving our ways of assessing dependencies and risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Our Climate Risk Report (see 'E1 - Impact, Risk and opportunity management') formed part of the input for the material risks and opportunities determined in our DMA. Our climate risk assessment explicitly covers physical and transition risks related to climate change, which also indirectly impacts nature, biodiversity and ecosystems. Within the climate risk assessment, the relevant risks for biodiversity and ecosystems are sometimes direct and sometimes indirect (as climate change can affect ecosystems and biodiversity). These risks have been covered as material under 'E1 Climate Change' and we did not find any additional material nature-related risks during our DMA. The outcome of our DMA concluded that biodiversity-related outside-in financial risks are currently not material to FMO. However, as our methodology to assess our dependency on nature continues to develop, we may identify material biodiversity-related risks in the future. Exploring biodiversity-related opportunities has been embedded into our 2030 Strategy, in which we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity as part of our SDG 13 ambition through the growth of our Green Label investments portfolios. As our methodology for assessing dependency on nature is still under development and was not considered during the DMA, we have not yet taken systemic risks into consideration. We did not consult with potentially affected communities specifically for the purposes of the DMA. As discussed in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management', we apply the relevant IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) in our investment process and due diligence, which may require consultation of potentially affected communities (depending on the investment) in order to avoid causing negative impacts on communities. Our approach towards affected communities is described further in our ESRS statement 'S3 Affected communities'. As the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems is not material to FMO’s own operations, the potential impacts on ecosystem services of relevance to affected communities in FMO’s own operations are not applicable. FMO does not have sites of its own that can create material impacts on biodiversity. Some of our investments can take place in physical locations that may be in or near biodiversity sensitive areas. We manage potential negative impacts in our investment process with the implementation of IFC PS6 (Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources). We assess on an individual project level whether it is necessary to implement climate mitigation measures. Our relevant process is described further in the section 'E4-2 Policies'. E4-1 Transition plan We identified material potential positive and negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in our downstream value chain. Additionally, we are developing our methodology on how to assess our dependencies on nature, and we are in the process of identifying potential risks from ecosystem degradation, regulatory and market shifts, climate change and biodiversity loss. Lastly, we have identified biodiversity-related opportunities as part of our 2030 Strategy, where we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity towards our SDG 13 ambition and Green Label growth target. As discussed in the previous section of this statement and in section 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', no material biodiversity and ecosystems-related risks were identified during the DMA. Therefore, our conclusion from our DMA is that FMO is resilient in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems. The DMA covered FMO’s upstream and downstream value chain, and FMO’s own operations. The time horizons used for the DMA were in line with the time horizons mentioned in ESRS 1. Furthermore, no specific stakeholder engagement was performed for the purposes of the DMA on the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems. 173 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As mentioned before, during the reporting period we were developing our methodology to assess FMO’s risks and dependencies related to nature. This methodology covers our entire portfolio (downstream value chain). This work is still in its early stages, and we expect that as we continue to develop our methodology further in the coming years, our understanding of FMO’s resilience in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems will also evolve. Lastly, during the reporting period, we developed our ‘Biodiversity roadmap’ to outline how we plan to address impacts, risks and opportunities in biodiversity, and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance in line with our 2030 Strategy (see 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'). E4-2 Policies Our material potential impacts related to the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems are mainly addressed by one policy: the Sustainability Policy and the relevant supporting documents, which together form the FMO Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU). Our 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan describe FMO’s commitment to increase investments in biodiversity. Below is a description of the relevant documents within the SPU: Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material biodiversity-related IROs. A complete description of the Sustainability Policy is described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social (E&S) impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. This emphasizes mandatory consultation with the local population affected by the project and specific plans available to compensate for any negative effects. Exclusion list: FMO’s exclusion list requires that an investment may not result in the ‘significant conversion or degradation of critical habitats’. Primary forests or forests of a high conservation value are classified as critical habitats. ESG management. The general criteria for screening and monitoring customers with regard to negative/adverse impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The following standards are relevant for biodiversity: i. IFC PS1: Assessment and management of environmental and social risks and impacts in relation to communities as well as disadvantaged and vulnerable groups ii. IFC PS6: Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural resources iii. IFC PS3 and 4 address the impacts of customer activities on ecosystem services and areas of importance to biodiversity that affect local communities Green Label Guidelines: the Green Label Guidelines provide the methodology and criteria for how to identify investments that are ex ante expected to have the positive impact we aim to create through our portfolio, including when it comes to preserving and growing natural capital and promoting biodiversity. FMO’s material biodiversity-related IROs are provided in the overview Table at the start of this chapter. These cover the relevant biodiversity drivers mentioned in the application requirements for ESRS E4 (with the exception of pollution which was not identified as a material topic for FMO) and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities. In practice, our ESG management process involves identifying, managing and monitoring potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. Ecosystem services are the benefits that people, including businesses, derive from ecosystems. FMO requires customers to identify and avoid negative impacts on biodiversity or ecosystems. Specifically, this requires customers to identify potential negative impacts (IFC PS1 and IFC PS6) such as habitat loss, degradation and fragmentation, possibility of invasive alien species introduction, overexploitation of a habitat and pollution (IFC PS3) that arise as a result of their activities. Where these potential negative impacts cannot be avoided, mitigation strategies and measures (e.g., avoiding impacts through exclusion of land areas within a site for conservation, introducing biological corridors, habitat restoration during or after operations etc.) are to be developed by our customers to minimize the negative impacts (IFC PS6). 174 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"loans, guarantees, equity and technical assistance to our customers (our financing products), monitoring the portfolio's health (credit risk, impact, customer satisfaction, and compliance), and managing the overall investment lifecycle. Enabling activities to support our core operations include strategy setting, product management, policy and compliance definition, risk management, external reporting, sustainability and impact management, and various corporate functions like IT, finance, procurement as well as human resources as FMO acts as an international employer to the people that work for our organization. We need upstream shareholders and public and private investors to provide capital as well as key partners and key suppliers to support us in our business model. Our upstream value chain activities are, therefore, focused on attracting and mobilizing funds and capital to scale up our development impact. We use public funds to de-risk investments and to be able to attract private capital. We bring in commercial investors through syndicated loans or fund management. Our public investment partners include: the Dutch Government, the UK Government, the EC and the Green Climate Fund (GCF). Mobilization activities include loan syndications, participations by several private debt funds that FMO Investment Management (FMO IM) advises for and through unfunded risk participations by commercial parties such as commercial banks. In addition, we work with suppliers that provide goods and services. We only want to work with trustworthy suppliers and have put in place a due diligence process in line with the Dutch Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act (Wwft). This process applies to new or existing suppliers related to our main activities, such as consultants, legal advisors, government intermediaries and/or providers of critically outsourced services. This is set out in FMO’s Procurement and Outsourcing Policy. ESRS 2 Interests and views of stakeholders We engage with stakeholders for various purposes: to create partnerships, to invest together, to harmonize approaches, and/or to seek insights that inform our policies and approaches. In addition, we value the input we receive from various stakeholders on our (proposed) investments. Our stakeholders bring critical perspectives, alert us to different viewpoints, provide us with critical feedback, and challenge us to be more transparent and accountable as an organization. Through stakeholder dialogues we aim to better understand each other’s perspectives and find ways to strengthen our collaboration. These dialogues help us to reflect on and enhance our risk assessment practices. Overall, most stakeholders engage with us because of the impact we aim to achieve through our investments. FMO stakeholders and stakeholder management Our customers, the State of the Netherlands, shareholders, employees, investors, NGOs, supervisors, other DFIs/IFIs and regulators are among our most important stakeholders. Engagement can take various forms, from day-to-day, business-as-usual engagement to more strategic and planned engagements, such as regular meetings, surveys, forums and stakeholder dialogues. FMO distinguishes between three stakeholder groups: 1) FMO’s own workforce, 2) external stakeholders FMO engages with at an investment level and 3) corporate stakeholder groups. 1. FMO’s own workforce include employees with an employment contract with FMO or a regional office subsidiary and contractors, consultants and secondees. Non-employees include a variety of individuals such as contractors (including ZZP), consultants and secondees. All managers, directors and Management Board members are responsible for employee engagement. 2. External stakeholders include customers, local communities and employees employed by our customers as well as other (positively/negatively) affected individuals. The relationships with our customers are managed by FMO’s investment teams, including ESG and impact specialists. 3. Corporate stakeholder groups include private investors such as FMO shareholders, syndicated partners and investors in FIM funds, the Dutch government (also as a shareholder), the Dutch Parliament, supervisor and regulator, NGOs, media and international partners (the EC, Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), and (European) Development Finance Institutions ((E)DFIs). These relationships are overseen by the following internal functions within FMO: Corporate Stakeholder Engagement, Risk, Partnerships for Impact and the Corporate Secretary. Policies FMO believes that transparency and accountability in its financing and investments are fundamental to fulfilling its development mandate. It allows us to improve our investment decisions and helps us be transparent to our stakeholders about whether FMO is achieving what it intends. 115 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"To facilitate this, FMO adheres to a Customer Disclosure Policy, outlining the scope and type of information that it makes available to the public. In addition to the disclosure of its annual reports, press releases and corporate- and policy-related disclosure, FMO also discloses selected relevant information about its investments and financing, both prior to (explicitly inviting comments from the stakeholder community), and after contracting. Table 3. Minimum disclosure requirements for Customer Disclosure Policy Scope of policy All investments involving FMO debt and equity transactions Accountable body Management Board Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) IFC PS, EDFI’s Principles for Responsible Financing of Sustainable development Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) Stakeholders are invited to provide comments on our investments, prior to and after contracting Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) Customer Disclosure Policy is publicly available on our website As a DFI, we are sensitive to the social context and environment in which we are active. The businesses and projects we invest in have an important impact on local communities and society at large. Therefore, we integrate stakeholder considerations and information, based on consultation with stakeholders (including affected communities, in line with the IFC PS), into our investment decision- making and we monitor whether decisions will further contribute to the quality and positive impact of FMO’s investments and also ensure community support. For more information, see our Sustainability Policy. FMO makes a distinction between project-related complaints and general complaints. General complaints can be communicated in writing. For project-related complaints, FMO has implemented an Independent Complaints Mechanism (ICM) and accompanying procedures. The ICM ensures the right to be heard for complainants who feel affected by an FMO-financed operation, facilitating dispute resolution and assisting FMO in drawing lessons learned. The ICM Policy describes the structure and governance of the complaints procedure, which allows affected external parties to file a complaint concerning a project financed by FMO. For more information on the project-related complaints procedure, refer to 'S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels to raise concerns'. Table 4. Minimum disclosure requirements for Independent Complaints Mechanism Policy Scope of policy The mechanism applies to FMO-financed operations Accountable body Management Board Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) IFC PS, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) We invite stakeholders to give their views on new (draft) ICM Policy via public consultation before finalizing the policy. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) ICM policy can be found publicly on our website FMO reports on the number admissible complaints received through the ICM. Details of this entity- specific metric and results are included in the following table. In 2024, no complaint was found admissible by the ICM's Independent Expert Panel relating to non-respect of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Table 5. Minimum disclosure requirements for metrics: new admissible complaints received Methodology and assumptions Number of complaints filed with the ICM that were declared admissible by the Independent Expert Panel (IEP) are defined as 'New admissible complaints received'. When the IEP groups several complaints pertaining to the same project as one case, this is treated as one complaint. An admissible complaint is a complaint for which the IEP has decided that it meets the admissibility criteria. These are specified in the ICM policy, which can be accessed on our website. 116 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit Number 2024 0 admissible complaints 2023 0 admissible complaints Stakeholder engagement and outcomes We are in constant dialogue with various stakeholders. Throughout the years, at a corporate level we have taken the outcomes of stakeholder engagement into account in, among other things: FMO’s strategy development (2030 Strategy: Pioneer-Develop-Scale) FMO’s double materiality assessment FMO’s Sustainability Policy FMO’s position statements FMO’s Customer Disclosure Policy The Independent Complaints Mechanism FMO’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) During the development of our long-term 2030 Strategy Pioneer – Develop – Scale we consulted internal stakeholders (including FMO’s employees) and external stakeholders. For this consultation, meetings were held with the Dutch Ministry of Finance, Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs, DNB, NGOs, (E)DFIs, private banks, commercial finance partners, and the European Commission (EC). At the start of the strategic development process, FMO collected the key topics and expectations of these stakeholders, which was part of the foundation for the further development of the long-term strategy. The Dutch Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Finance provided their vision during various stages of the strategy development process. During the materiality assessment, FMO takes the views and interests of stakeholders into account. We do this either by consulting them directly or integrating knowledge about stakeholder interests coming out of regular stakeholder engagement activities as described in this section. When developing or updating policy statements, we invite stakeholders to give their views on new policies and position statements that guide our investment process and decision-making. For example, in 2016, we developed a comprehensive Sustainability Policy, taking into account more than 300 comments from various parties from society, government and customers. We are active participants in a number of multi-stakeholder dialogues. At an investment level, the outcomes of stakeholder engagement are taken into account via our due diligence process. Stakeholder and community engagement is a key principle embedded within the IFC PS. This means that FMO is committed to actively engaging with affected stakeholders and local communities throughout the project lifecycle in order to understand their concerns, incorporate their perspectives into decision-making processes, and mitigate any negative impacts on them. On an ad-hoc basis, FMO also engages with value chain workers as part of its monitoring. For more information refer to section 'ESRS 2 - IRO management' and specific information on this type of stakeholder engagement in the sections 'S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers', 'S3-2 Processes for engaging with affected communities' and 'S4-2 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users'. The Integrity and Issue Management Committee (IIMC) is a sub-committee of the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) and is appointed by the Management Board. The IIMC monitors and advises on designated projects, transactions, and customers on a corporate and project level, including where applicable complaints related matters brought forward via the ICM for proposed, active and completed/ exited investments. The Management Board is informed of the views and interests of FMO project affected stakeholders on a case-by-case basis and the Supervisory Board (through the Management Board) via quarterly periodic briefs. For example, when there is a material impact voiced via 1) ex-ante (prior to commitment) disclosure questions; 2) NGO questions; or 3) (ongoing) complaints with the ICM. 117 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"FMO regularly conducts employee surveys to gauge employee satisfaction and engagement levels. For more information on how we engage with our employees please refer to the sub-chapter 'S1 - Own Workforce'. Future steps towards our stakeholder dialogues In 2024, we worked on an outline policy for effective dialogue with the relevant corporate stakeholders, which will be published as a position statement in the first quarter of 2025. This policy will enable FMO to effectively decide: (i) if engagement is needed for specific topics, (ii) which stakeholders should be involved, (iii) what the timelines are for this engagement process and (iv) how the process should be organized. Currently, the ICM Policy is being revised. Input from stakeholders will be sought by a public consultation of the draft policy, to enhance and clarify the policy and increase the trust and buy-in of stakeholders. Advocacy NGOs are especially interested in the ICM because they use it to escalate their complaints. NGOs that have requested to be able to provide input at an early stage – before public consultation – have been engaged with to share their views. ESRS 2 IRO management FMO manages material sustainability-related matters, including material impacts, risks and opportunities, through various policies and actions. Material impacts, risks and opportunities identified for S1 and G1 relate to FMO's own operations and are, therefore, managed by FMO's Human Resources and Compliance departments. Material impacts, risks and opportunities identified for E1, E3, E4, S2, S3 and S4 relate to FMO's customers and investments (downstream value chain) and are managed as part of our investment process. In addition, FMO has developed an impact management framework to ensure it takes an integrated approach to managing positive and negative impacts – potential and actual – as well as the financial risks that may result from the negative impacts in its investment portfolio. Our management approach to our own workforce and business conduct are described in the S1 and G1 topical statements, respectively. Our approach to impact management is common across E1, E3, E4, S2, S3 and S4 and is described in the following section. Negative impacts and the resulting financial risks are managed through ESG management practices. Negative impacts on people and the environment could result in financial risks, leading to, for example, financial (remediation, legal) costs to FMO or its customer, jeopardize access to capital for FMO (from external investors), jeopardizing the license to operate, jeopardizing shareholder relations or reputational damage. This is further described in the paragraphs relating to ESG management. Positive impacts are managed through allocating and structuring capital towards the SDGs, mostly through our Reducing Inequalities (RI) and Green Labels. This is further described in the paragraphs relating to impact management. Figure 2. Impact management framework Strategy and policy FMO’s impact and sustainability commitments are outlined in FMO’s Sustainability Policy, which was first approved by FMO’s Management Board in 2016. The policy is complemented by our exclusion list, 118 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"position statements on – among other things – human rights, land governance, fossil fuels and coal, and impact and ESG for financial intermediaries. Together, these documents form the Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU), available on our website. FMO requires, that all customers comply with applicable environmental, social and human rights laws in their home and host countries. In addition, FMO upholds (inter)national standards, including the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Client Protection Principles (CPPs). In addition, FMO has adopted the IFC PS (2012) as its operating standard. FMO requires its customers to comply with these standards and in doing so to identify, prevent and mitigate negative social and environmental impacts. FMO’s Sustainability Policy and position statements apply to all our new investments. This includes both direct investments and investments through financial intermediaries. This policy is the foundation of our impact management framework and provides guidance for FMO’s internal processes. FMO considers this policy a living document. It will be updated based on lessons learned and input from FMO’s stakeholders. Our Sustainability Policy and position statements undergo targeted and public consultation with various relevant stakeholder groups (e.g. the Dutch government, DFI partners, (commercial) peers, (inter)national Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and think tanks, and relevant (industry) standard organizations) during the development process and every three years, are formally approved by the Management Board. Table 6. Minimum disclosure requirements for FMO’s Sustainability Policy Scope of policy The scope of this policy extends to FMO’s entire footprint. This includes FMO’s activities at the organizational level and new investments with respect to all products provided by FMO. The nature of the services FMO delivers can in some situations limit FMO’s level of influence. FMO will then apply this policy to the greatest extent possible. This Policy is the foundation of our sustainability management and provides guidance to FMO’s internal processes. This Sustainability Policy is the leading part of a broader Sustainability Policy Universe (see Annex 1 of the Policy) that also encompasses thematic and sectoral Position Statements that complement the Sustainability Policy and give further depth and content to the choices FMO makes. Accountable body Management Board with approval delegated to Impact and Sustainability Committee (ISCO) Third-party standards/initiatives (if relevant) As part of the Sustainability Policy, FMO upholds various (inter)national standards. They are listed in the policy, which is publicly available. With respect to the management of environmental and social impact, the primary standards that FMO upholds are the IFC PS and the associated World Bank Group Environmental Health and Safety Guidelines. They cover the larger part of the ESG requirements in the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises, which also reference the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Consideration to interests of key stakeholders (if relevant) We invite stakeholders to give their views on new policies and position statements that guide our investment process and decision-making. Availability to stakeholders (if relevant) Sustainability Policy Universe, as well as a document describing how FMO navigates dilemmas and issues are all published on FMO’s website. Allocate and structure capital FMO’s policy requirements are translated into internal investment criteria that are applied and assessed at the investment level where FMO assesses both the positive and negative impacts to define the boundaries of where we allocate capital. The exclusion lists and ESG risk appetite define the boundaries for negative impacts. Our labels highlight the potential that individual investments must contribute to certain principles and objectives. The RI and Green Labels help classify individual investments as per their ex-ante (prior to commitment) potential to materially contribute to SDG 10 Reducing Inequalities and SDG 13 Climate Action respectively, thereby allocating capital towards FMO’s strategic impact ambitions. 119 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"For each investment, FMO measures volume indicators (assets under management) which include FMO’s RI and Green-labelled total committed portfolio. Labelling processes are operationalized using FMO’s Sustainability Information System (SIS). Reducing Inequalities Label The RI Label steers toward investments that have the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to SDG 10. Two objectives underlie the RI Label: increase investment in least developed countries (reducing inequality between countries) and increase investment in inclusive growth (reducing inequality within countries). Each of these has a set of principles, definitions and criteria. We report on RI-labelled total new investments. More information on the 2024 performance results is provided in the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy' in the section 'Sector performance'. Table 7. Minimum disclosure requirements for RI-labelled total new investments Methodology and assumptions New investment is the aggregate commitment made to a customer in a specific reporting period by FMO and PIM Funds, and by private participants and other public participants directly mobilized by FMO. For the calculation of new investment per participant, the aggregate commitment is allocated to the participants based on their credit risk exposure to the customer. The RI Label is an SDG Label indicating an Instrument has the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to the SDG 10 objectives. Two objectives underlie the RI Label: increase investment in LDCs (reducing inequalities between countries) and increase investment in inclusive growth (reducing inequalities within countries, focusing on gender and youth). Each of these objectives has a set of principles, definitions and criteria. The RI percentage is the share of an investment that is approved for the RI Label. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit EUR million 2024 2,250 2023 1,140 Green Label The Green Label steers toward investments that have ex-ante potential to materially contribute to SDG 13. The Green Label is defined by FMO’s green principles, its objectives, and definitions that clarify FMO’s approach to meeting these objectives. We report on Green-labelled total new investments. More information on the 2024 performance results is provided in the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy' in the section 'Sector performance'. Table 8. Minimum disclosure requirements for Green-labelled total new investments Methodology and assumptions New investment is the aggregate commitment made to a customer in a specific reporting period by FMO and PIM Funds, and by private participants and other public participants directly mobilized by FMO. For the calculation of new investments per participant, the aggregate commitment is allocated to the participants based on their credit risk exposure to the customer. The Green Label is an SDG Label indicating an investment has the ex-ante potential to materially contribute to the SDG 13 objectives, including climate mitigation, climate adaptation and resilience, water, circular economy and pollution prevention and biodiversity. The Green percentage is the share of an Instrument that is approved for Green Label. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit EUR million 2024 1,460 2023 1,091 Customer value creation At the customer level, FMO creates impact by contributing to improving financial and non-financial customer (or prospect) value, through a range of activities. These include the provision of investment, 120 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"financial and non-financial advisory services, development contributions, and inherent contributions. In addition, FMO contributes by identifying and mitigating negative impacts, and through the improvement of ESG performance. FMO’s engagement to generate value for customers overall also adds value to the wider market, the respective sectors and the ecosystem, and supports mutually beneficial progress towards our RI and Green Label targets. The following are sub-components of the way we support value creation at the customer level. ESG management at customer level Our investments may, unintentionally, lead to negative impacts on people and the environment. FMO is exposed to financial risks resulting from our investment selection, the effectiveness of customers to manage their impacts and the effectiveness of FMO’s engagement therein. At FMO, ESG management covers the management of both negative impacts as well as potential financial risks. As part of its investment process, FMO screens and categorizes all customers according to their gross ESG risk profile (i.e. risk that is inherent to the activity to be financed irrespective of a customers’ ESG performance). Based on this screening, the following categorization of customer E&S risk profiles is determined: A and B+ (high risk), B (medium risk) and C (low risk) for direct investments; and ID-A (high risk), ID-B+ (high risk), ID-B (medium risk) and ID-C (low risk) for indirect exposure through debt and PE funds. An initial assessment of the corporate governance (CG) risk for a customer is also conducted, resulting in a CG risk classification. Further, customers are evaluated on their potential negative impacts as well as their ESG performance, i.e. their capacity to manage these. Note that in the case of direct investments, E&S impact is assessed at customer-level. For indirect exposure to FIs, E&S impact is assessed by considering the operations as well as the investments of the FI (i.e. on a portfolio level basis). In particular, the FI customers’ level of exposure to high E&S impact sectors is considered. Similarly, in the case of funds, the E&S risk categories of the underlying investments the fund is composed of are taken into consideration when determining the funds' E&S risk profiles. For high E&S risk customers, we conduct site visits and stakeholder engagement, with further ESG requirements defined and negotiated as needed. Dedicated ESG specialists within FMO engage actively with all high-risk customers. The level and exact focus of engagement depend on the type and severity of impact and/or the extent to which the identified impact pose a threat to the environment, communities, the customer and/or FMO. FMO assesses the customers’ performance in mitigating and managing ESG impacts against the IFC PS. For each applicable standard, FMO monitors the customer’s performance against the standards. Impacts that are not adequately managed by high-risk customers are considered a performance gap, and recorded as such. The performance is assessed against the standards and is used to set the ESG performance target, described in the section 'ESG management at portfolio level'. FMO accepts a limited gap in successful ESG management to our standards. This gap acknowledges residual risk posed by contextual and implementation challenges in our market. FMO ESG specialists work with customers to develop Environmental and Social Action Plans (ESAPs) and Corporate Governance Action Plans (CGAPs) to enhance customer ESG impact management processes and remediate these gaps. FMO’s Credit department evaluates the ESG impacts and performance of each financial proposal and prepares credit advice to guide the final investment decision. Upon approval, all customer contracts will include ESG requirements, and FMO monitors the implementation of these requirements by our customers (throughout the investment period) through regular contact and site visits, often supported by independent consultants. Customer compliance against the ESAP and CGAP, as well as closing of actions, is monitored as part of the Customer Credit Review (CCR) process. In addition, FMO monitors serious incidents as reported by our customers or underperformance that would warrant corrective actions. We follow up on each incident to ensure a robust root cause analysis is conducted and corrective action implemented. For FMO’s high ESG risk customers, we monitor our exposure through FMO’s proprietary SIS. The net ESG risk exposure is the customers’ gross risk exposure corrected for by the customer’s performance managing down the negative impact. The methodology used to track performance for these high-risk customers is described in table 11 for number of customers with E&S performance gaps in portfolio. 121 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"ESG performance tracking in SIS is integrated within the investment process and forms the basis of FMO’s ESG performance target. ESG performance is monitored and updated throughout the lifetime of the investment as part of the annual review cycle of each customer, enabling FMO to have an up-to-date portfolio-wide view of the ESG negative impacts in its portfolio. Impact management at customer level At FMO, different teams contribute to different core elements relating to the management of positive impacts. This includes defining the strategic impact ambition of an investment aligned with 2030 Strategy ambitions, providing methodological guidance and defining reporting frameworks (how to measure), gathering data from customers and other sources, and recording this data in FMO’s SIS; and aggregating and reporting this data internally and externally. To measure, report and monitor the development impact of transactions, deal teams work with customers to define how the investment supports the core SDGs. They select approximately one to three impact indicators that best capture the intended positive impact of that investment and establish baselines and (where possible) time-specific expected values for these indicators. During the annual review process, customers report on the indicators. FMO engages with other European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI) to harmonize indicators to measure impact and align requirements across DFIs for customers. FMO strives towards alignment vis-à- vis the Harmonized Indicators for Private Sector Operations (HIPSO), the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), and Impact Reporting and Investment Standards Plus. Monitor and manage impact at portfolio level At the portfolio level, FMO manages and steers towards positive and negative impacts. FMO measures volume indicators. Impact management at portfolio level The volume indicators include FMO’s RI and Green-labelled total committed portfolio. FMO has a 2030 target of €10 billion for investments that will contribute towards SDG 10 Reduced Inequalities and SDG 13 Climate Action. The labels are a strategic steering tool to this end. In addition, FMO has identified several metrics to measure FMO’s contributions to the SDGs. While these metrics will be monitored for broader impact management purposes or external reporting requirements, only the metrics with a target are used to steer towards our strategic impact objectives. Table 9. Minimum disclosure requirements for SDG 10 Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) By 2030, we aim to have an investment portfolio of at least €10 billion in SDG 10 by financing assets that contribute to our SDG 10 objectives. Scope of target SDG 10 investments in the total committed portfolio Baseline value €4.0 billion Baseline year 2021 Application period 2023 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: €5,000 million 122 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Methodologies and assumptions The target has been established following the intent to double FMO’s impact regarding SDG 10 compared to the baseline year 2021. In the absence of a single impact metric, we focused on doubling the size of the relevant portfolios. Setting the target involved a forecasting exercise of the portfolio and subsequent internal discussions. Key assumptions for this target are that FMO can contribute to reducing inequalities within and between countries by steering investments towards 1) least developed countries or 2) activities that support inclusive growth. Hence, an investment can receive an ex-ante RI Label if the investment takes place in, or funds are expected to flow predominantly to LDCs (aligned with SDG 10.9) and/or if the investment is expected to contribute to inclusive business practices or targets the bottom 40 percent of the population (SDG 10.1). Portfolio trajectories per department were forecast during the 2030 Strategy process and SDG10 targets were confirmed with investment directorates, based on past and expected performance. It should be noted that portfolio growth was forecasted using a stable EUR/ USD FX rate of 1.10 through 2030. An appreciating USD has a positive effect on our portfolio results. Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) NA Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy process. Key input to setting the target was the Corporate Evaluation of our performance on reducing inequalities in the years 2015-2020. The evaluation was concluded in 2021. The target and strategic focus were discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during the strategy process. This included the Dutch government, being the main shareholder, and multi- stakeholder dialogues held in the course of 2021. Changes in target In 2024, the RI Label was updated in line with updated market standards (e.g. 2X and the updated MDB Common Principles) and other market developments. Two new sub- categories were added to the reducing within country inequality label to align with the new 2x standards and to account for access to food as a basic goods and services for low-income populations. Performance There was a 42 percent increase in 2024 compared to 2023, to €6.1 billion. This means that the target of €5 billion that was set for 2024 was reached. For more information on key trends and drivers, refer to the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy', 'Sector performance'. Table 10. Minimum disclosure requirements for SDG 13 Target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) By 2030, we aim to have an investment portfolio of at least €10 billion in SDG 13 by financing assets that contribute to our SDG 13 objectives Scope of target SDG 13 investments in the total committed portfolio Baseline value €4.1 billion Baseline year 2021 Application period 2023 – 2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: €5,4 million Methodologies and assumptions The target has been established following the intent to double FMO’s impact regarding SDG 13 compared to the baseline year 2021. In the absence of a single impact metric, we focused on doubling the size of the relevant portfolios. Setting the target involved a forecasting exercise of the portfolio and subsequent internal discussions. The Green Label is applied ex-ante to investments that are identified to contribute to potential positive impact on climate. Portfolio trajectories per department were forecast during the 2030 Strategy process and SDG10 targets were confirmed with investment directorates, based on past and expected performance. It should be noted that portfolio growth was forecasted using a stable EUR/USD FX rate of 1.10 through 2030. An appreciating USD has a positive effect on our portfolio results. 123 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) The Green Label methodology is based on and largely aligned with the Multilateral Development Banks (MDB) common principles on climate finance tracking. This set of principles is not intended to be scientifically evidenced per se, but evidence (such as certification of agricultural products or buildings) is required to support that these investments meet the principles and definition as set out in FMO’s Green Label methodology. Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy which has been discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting, including the Dutch government as key stakeholder and shareholder. Changes in target The Green Label methodology was updated in 2024 in line with MDB Common Principles of Climate Mitigation Finance Tracking of October 2021 and the MDB Common Principles of Climate Adaptation Finance Tracking of 2022 and external market standards. Green Label objectives have also been revised splitting the 'other footprint reduction' objective into the objectives biodiversity, water security, circular economy and pollution prevention. Performance There was a 24 percent increase in 2024 compared to 2023, to €5.9 billion. This means that the target of €5.4 billion that was set for 2024 was reached. For more information on key trends and drivers, refer to the sub-chapter 'Performance against our strategy', 'Sector performance'. ESG management at portfolio level FMO measures ESG gross and net risk in our portfolio to monitor our risk profile and to ensure we remain within risk appetite while measuring ESG performance. FMO has a public ESG target on the ESG performance of its high-ESG risk customers’ portfolio. The target is part of FMO’s Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), which specifies the appetite for accepting residual ESG risk. FMO has a cautious appetite for ESG risk in its investments. Full adherence cannot generally be expected at the start of the relationship. FMO strives for investments to be brought in line with our standards within a credible and reasonable period of time. It is understood and accepted that customers/investees have performance gaps as they need knowledge and resources to implement ESG improvements. E&S performance gaps Table 11. Minimum disclosure requirements for number of customers with E&S performance gaps in portfolio Methodology and assumptions Number of customers for which subpar performance has been identified (denoted by 'n'). E&S performance tracking is conducted for all high E&S risk customers, to determine their adherence to the IFC PS. The performance tracker considers all applicable IFC PS criteria per customer and allows these to be scored to assess the potential negative impacts and performance of the customer to mitigate these. For each high E&S risk customer, the following is determined: 1. The customers’ risk exposure to each criterion (1 – Low | 2 – Medium | 3 – High), and 2. The customers’ performance score against each PS criterion (1 – Exemplary | 2 – Good | 3 – Fair | 4 – Caution | 5 Unacceptable). The combination of these elements leads to a 7-letter scale E&S risk rating (AAA, AA, BBB, BB, CCC, CC, D) for each applicable criterion. Ratings BB/BBB/AA/AAA represent adequate customer E&S risk management per criterion, whilst CCC/CC/D are deemed to be inadequate. The lowest rating that the customer has achieved across all IFC PS criteria is used as the overall customer ESG performance rating. Performance is monitored over the lifetime of the investment. Validation by external body other than the assurance provider (if applicable) NA Unit Number 2024 54 The following table provides an overview of the current E&S performance gaps we have identified and how we engage with these customers. It includes the number of customers for which subpar performance has been identified (denoted by 'n'). The outcomes shown below were compiled as part of FMO’s ESG performance tracking on a customer level (the methodology underlying this is outlined in 124 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"table 11). These performance gaps have been summarized by theme in the table that follows which illustrates the high priority issues that still require attention. Table 12. E&S performance gaps E&S performance gaps 2024 Description Our engagement ESRS topic Willingness and commitment (PS1) (n=7) Resistance to engage on E&S issues can stem from over- reliance on DFIs to drive ESG work streams. Commitment can waver due to financial, operational and contextual difficulties. Wavering commitment can have tangible implications on human rights and the environment, for example through delays in implementing management plans or community benefits, or in conducting specialized studies. We use contractual leverage on specific E&S items, raise issues with customers’ top management and exert influence on their boards, e.g. to push for the improvement of organizational culture. - Environmental and social governance and budget (PS1) (n=9) The customer’s leadership is not fully aware of and involved with E&S performance management, and/or has not allocated sufficient budget, resources, or time. Governance issues can result in poor protection of workers’ rights, a range of risks to communities, as well as damage to the environment. We use contractual leverage and escalate the issue to top management. We may offer capacity building and advice on integrating E&S costs into financial planning and monitor frequently. - Identification and assessment of risks and impacts (PS1) (n=8) Weak (initial and ongoing) identification and mitigation of risks. This can adversely impact human rights. We provide customers with continuous engagement with our ESG staff and capacity building. If needed, we exert formal pressure e.g. through withholding additional financing or triggering default. - Environmental and social management system (PS1) (n=13) Since the assessment and management of E&S risks and impacts is part of a larger set of processes that the customer uses to manage its projects, the customer needs to deploy an environmental and social management system (ESMS) to warehouse and utilize such processes. A weak system hampers the ability to identify issues or risks, and through that to improve E&S performance, and so can lead to adverse economic, financial, social, and environmental impacts. We support customers in the development and improvement of an ESMS. - Organizational capacity and competency (PS1) (n=10) E&S teams can be too small, change often, continue to perform poorly, or lack qualified staff. This is an issue in countries where environmental legislation is developing, and/or state human rights policy and practice are weak. We use contractual leverage, offer capacity building and look for competent staff in our network. - Stakeholder engagement, external communication, grievance mechanisms (PS1) (n=16) Trust and communication between FMO’s customer and its stakeholders are eroding or have broken down. Ineffective channels of communication play an important part here, particularly when grievances are insufficiently captured or redressed. Poor performance in this area can infringe on the freedom of opinion and expression, and even result in inhuman treatment, retaliation, and risk to lives. We intensify our customer engagement, offer to connect customers to experts, mediate or provide capacity building. S3 Affected communities Voluntary land rights transfer (PS1) (n=2) Customer needs to demonstrate that the buyer and the seller were both willing to transfer the land. Involuntary land transfer can be masked as voluntary, which can weaken community cohesion, cause tension between company and community and affect people’s livelihoods. We engage with our customers to help them establish a land acquisition process that shows both the buyer and seller are willingly transferring the land. S3 Affected communities Working conditions and management of workers relationship (incl. third party workers) (PS2) (n=14) Project workers working in substandard conditions, unaware of their rights or without access to grievance mechanisms. This can infringe on labor rights. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. S2 Workers in the value chain Occupational health and safety (PS2) (n=10) Gaps in ensuring safe and healthy working conditions, possibly leading to serious injuries and fatalities. This could infringe upon the right to health and safety in the workplace, and the right to life. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. S2 Workers in the value chain 125 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Supply chain working conditions (PS2) (n=3) When the customer does not monitor its primary supply chain, risks or incidents affecting vulnerable groups are not adequately addressed. We require customers with supply chains susceptible to high human rights or environmental risks to conduct a supply chain risk assessment. In some cases, they also need to develop a leverage plan and/or action plan to mitigate those risks. S2 Workers in the value chain Resource efficiency and pollution prevention (PS3) (n=10) Projects reduce the availability of water in arid regions or pollution prevention measures are inefficient. This can infringe upon the right to life, the rights of the child and the right to live in a safe, clean, and healthy environment. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. - Community health, safety and security (PS4) (n=9) Potential negative impacts to local communities are poorly managed, especially when security forces are mandated to protect personnel and assets. The increasing fragility of political environments across the geographies we work in makes this a complex area. We discuss gaps with the customer, enable capacity building and set conditions, e.g. by making disbursements conditional on improvement. FMO can require a root cause analysis and corrective measures or redress. S3 Affected communities Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement (PS5) (n=9) When resettlement and livelihood restoration plans are poorly managed or insufficiently recognize vulnerable groups and/or have ineffective grievance mechanisms. This can impoverish people and infringe on their right to an adequate standard of living, notably the right to food and adequate housing. We find an expert to conduct gap analyses and implement recommendations. In the event of an early exit, FMO seeks to provide remedy to those impacted. S3 Affected communities Biodiversity and living natural resources (PS6) (n=9) Biodiversity potential negative impacts have not been modeled well enough or monitoring and mitigation are insufficient, or new findings are missed or ignored. This reduces biodiversity and access to forest products, thereby infringing on the right to food and/or an adequate standard of living. We intensify customer monitoring, engage a biodiversity expert and use our leverage to improve the situation. E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems Indigenous Peoples (PS7) (n=3) Community engagement processes do not meet FPIC requirement and/or do not allow for sufficient participation of Indigenous Peoples. In some cases, we recognize challenging operating conditions where risks to these communities are difficult to control. This may lead to the infringement of their right to food, traditions and sacred sites. FMO encourages customers to meet FPIC standards, share benefits with communities, and include indigenous groups in livelihood restoration. We may intensify monitoring of contextual risk factors. S3 Affected communities Cultural heritage (PS8) (n=3) Failure to protect cultural heritage. This can infringe on the rights of people to benefit from their and other people’s cultural heritage. We use our leverage to improve the situation, looking at past and future risks. S3 Affected communities Financial intermediaries: financial institutions and fund managers (n=22) Substandard system for identifying and managing E&S potential negative impacts of financed activities. Processes and procedures are unclear, E&S management responsibilities are insufficiently defined and/or capabilities are lacking, or inadequate E&S due diligence and monitoring is performed. This can be compounded by lack of exposure to and experience in E&S risks management by the financial sector and the lack of a level-playing field. This can lead to infringements of all types of human rights as referenced before. We provide expertise and funding for the ESMS or sit on E&S risk management committees. We negotiate improvement plans and, in some cases, initiate or contribute to sector initiatives. - ESG performance target While we monitor all negative impacts in our portfolio, FMO's ESG performance target is set annually for high-ESG risk customers contracted prior to 2024 (identified as the ‘target list’). The target list includes high E&S risk customers and customers with a corporate governance officer in the deal. We register and monitor all potential negative impacts of our high-risk customers and aim to have at least 90 percent of ESG risks in our target list managed at an adequate level by our customers. The 2024 results indicate that, on average, 94 percent of ESG risks were adequately managed. In instances where customer performance deteriorates or open action items are not implemented on time, customers receive lower ratings, which bring down the average of the entire portfolio. The target has 126 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"been met and the 2024 performance has improved from 91 percent in 2023, resulting from improved impact management by our clients, with a particular increase in performance of our FI portfolio. Table 13. Minimum disclosure requirements for ESG performance target Target level to be achieved and unit of measurement, and clarification whether target is absolute or relative (where applicable) At least 90 percent of the ESG risks in our target list are managed at an adequate level by our customers Scope of target High E&S-risk customers and customers with a corporate governance officer in the deal. By consolidating customers within the same corporate group or group of companies, and excluding those in B Loans* or contracted in 2024, we created a target list of 258 customers. Baseline value 90% Baseline year 2023 Application period 2024-2030 Milestones or interim targets Annual targets are set as part of the annual business planning process. 2024 target: 90% Methodologies and assumptions E&S performance tracking is conducted for all high E&S risk customers, to determine their adherence to the IFC PS. The performance tracker considers all applicable IFC PS criteria per customer and allows these to be scored to assess the potential negative impacts and performance of the customer to mitigate these. For each high E&S risk customer, the following is determined: 1. The customers’ risk exposure to each criterion (1 – Low | 2 – Medium | 3 – High), and 2. The customers’ performance score against each PS criterion ((1 – Exemplary | 2 – Good | 3 – Fair | 4 – Caution | 5 Unacceptable). The combination of these elements leads to a 7-letter scale E&S risk rating (AAA, AA, BBB, BB, CCC, CC, D) for each applicable criterion. Ratings BB/BBB/AA/AAA represent adequate customer E&S risk management per criterion, whilst CCC/CC/D are deemed to be inadequate. The target is calculated as the share of adequate risks amongst all risks assessed in the target list customers (see scope for target list). Target related to environmental matters is based on conclusive scientific evidence (if applicable) NA Stakeholder involvement with target setting The target has been set as part of the 2030 Strategy which has been discussed both formally and informally with key stakeholders during drafting, including the Dutch government being the key stakeholder and shareholder. Changes in target Target remains the same as in 2023 except the target list is redefined every year as described in the methodology. Performance 94% *FMO participates in 'B-loans', contractual arrangements where it has a sub-participation where another DFI/MDB manages the customer relationship. In these cases, FMO does not have a direct business relationship with the end recipient. In 2023, it was decided that, while FMO will continue to monitor B-loan performance, the results would not be included in our ESG target. Evaluate and learn FMO conducts evaluations to assess and learn from FMO’s performance against our committed (impact) objectives. At the portfolio level, we perform corporate evaluations to assess FMO's contributions to the SDGs, while for fund evaluations, we selectively choose specific investments for review. Evaluations help us to be accountable and to learn from the results that our financial and non-financial activities create in order to continuously improve. ESRS 2 Governance of sustainability matters The topic of governance is mostly covered in the sub-chapter ‘Corporate governance’ and the chapter ‘Report of the Supervisory Board’. In this section, we provide information on the governance aspects relating to sustainability-related matters. 127 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Roles and responsibilities in managing IROs FMO’s sustainability agenda is managed in an integrated way. The Supervisory Board oversees the overall strategy and performance. The Supervisory Board has three dedicated committees: The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC), the Impact Committee (IC) and the Selection, Appointment and Remuneration (SARC). The Audit and Risk Committee provides - among others - advice to the Supervisory Board on approving the Risk Appetite Framework. The Audit and Risk committee also discusses the quarterly Risk Appetite Reports on a regular basis. This report includes sections on whether climate risk and ESG risk are within appetite level. The Impact Committee prepares the decision-making and advice of the Supervisory Board on FMO’s strategic impact commitments, including policies and targets related to sustainability-related matters. Our material sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities are reflected in the standing rules of the Supervisory Board Impact Committee as part of their objective of assisting the Supervisory Board in overseeing the quality and integrity of FMO’s statements regarding development Impact. The Supervisory Board Impact Committee also prepares advice to support Supervisory Board and Management Board decision-making concerning FMO's strategy in respect to sustainability-related matters, including policies and target-setting. Our Management Board is responsible for FMO’s mission, vision, strategic goals and strategy including our long-term value creation. The Management Board is also responsible for implementing the strategy and the subsequent delivery of results, as reflected in the standing rules of the Management Board. Our sustainability-related matters are closely connected to managing FMO’s development impact, which is a core Management Board responsibility. In 2022, the Management Board approved FMO’s 2030 Strategy, including its 2030 strategic targets and ambitions. FMO’s long-term strategy is translated into annual business plans, outlining the priorities as well as the annual targets for the year, which are discussed and approved by the Management Board. The Management Board also approves the overall outcome of FMO’s double materiality assessment and reporting approach. Specific investments and divestments are discussed and/or approved by the Management Board. The Management Board decides and steers on strategic ambition levels regarding sustainability, through the setting of sustainability-related targets at corporate level, approving elements of our sustainability policy universe and guiding on items with high sustainability-related risks of reputational damage. Management Board committees The Management Board has delegated some of these responsibilities to its management committees. With regards to sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities, responsibilities have been delegated to the Impact and Sustainability Committee (ISCO), the Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) and the Financial Risk Committee (FRC). The ISCO supports the Management Board by driving the day-to-day impact and sustainability agenda through improved decision-making of sustainability-related matters and interpretation of external developments, with a view to implementation consequences. The Co-CIO has been appointed as the single point of accountability in the Management Board for sustainability-related matters and acts as Chair of the ISCO. In addition, the committee is composed of the following permanent members: Director Strategy, Director ESG+, Director Finance, Impact and Data, Investment Director and Director Credit and Special Operations. The ISCO endorses the results of the FMO’s double materiality assessment (DMA) from an impact materiality perspective, for the Management Board to approve. The Sustainability Policy is approved by the Management Board at least once every 3 years. The ISCO has delegated authority for its annual approval. The NFRC is appointed by the Management Board as an independent body for the purpose of monitoring, challenging, and deciding upon the execution of non-financial risk within FMO including ESG risks and will decide on the escalation of unacceptable ESG risks related to investment projects and cases with high reputational risk. The FRC deals with ESG risk at a portfolio level including for example climate risk assessments and results. The FRC also endorses the results of the DMA from a financial materiality perspective. Both the FRC and NFRC are chaired by Management Board members. Internal functions The responsibility for managing sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities lies with several internal functions within FMO. The Strategy department is tasked with managing FMO’s corporate strategy and implementation, including defining the sustainability strategy and related policies. FMO’s 128 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
"E3 Water and Marine Resources E3 Introduction FMO recognizes the critical role of water management in supporting climate and nature goals, ecosystems, and economic development. FMO invests in projects dependent on freshwater resources in the water, energy and agrifood portfolios, and impacts are expected regarding both water quality and water availability. As part of the impact management strategy, FMO has an ambition to invest in water efficient projects that align with the wider goals of environmental protection, safeguard affected communities, and ensure the sustainable use of water resources. By addressing water impacts, FMO aims to contribute to sustainable development and help mitigate the negative impacts of climate change on water resources. E3 Impacts, risks and opportunities The following table provides an overview of how each impact, risk and opportunity (IRO) relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. The impacts caused by our own operations fell below the materiality threshold. However, two negative impacts in our investment portfolio are considered to be material. It should be noted that the double materiality assessment (DMA) for E1 on Climate included a Climate Risk Assessment, through which a material financial risk related to water dependency was identified. This risk will be reported under 'E1 Climate change' as it relates to climate change effects that lead to increased water scarcity. Table 23. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Water withdrawals Actual negative impact The actual negative impacts on water quality and availability resulting from significant water usage or degradation by customers and/or projects financed by FMO. Water scarcity and degradation undermine the long-term sustainability of water resources, posing risks to ecosystems, biodiversity, and the livelihoods of communities dependent on water for agriculture and other purposes Degraded water quality and reduced availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target Water withdrawals Actual negative impact Actual impact on water withdrawals through the creation of reservoirs because of construction of hydro power dams and/or generators by our customers. Water availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target E3-1 Policies Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material water- related IROs. The Sustainability Policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts in our downstream value chain and is part of the Sustainability Policy Universe. The ESG management approach for screening and monitoring customers with regard to potential negative impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. FMO has adopted 169 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) as its operating standard. The following documents are relevant for water: a. IFC PS3, 4 and 6 provide specific guidance on water related topics, as they respectively cover Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, Community Health, Safety, and Security, and Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. b. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. FMO’s policies that address water-related impacts are aimed at reducing the material negative impacts downstream in FMO’s value chain. FMO aims to support customers to improve their sustainable use of natural resources, such as water, and to prevent degradation of ecosystems. FMO assesses its direct and indirect potential and existing investments over time according to ESG criteria such as the presence and quality of the E&S management system, availability, quantity and quality of resources such as water for local communities and related impacts on resource efficiency including the consumption and use of water. The scope of this assessment applies to the financed activities and their primary suppliers, though FMO may look beyond the direct financed activities when salient risks are expected in the value chain. Potable water availability or sanitary wastewater collection, treatment, or discharge are also considered, whereby opportunities are explored to improve these aspects, especially where these can be provided at marginal cost to the project. When projects are a potentially significant consumer of water, in addition to applying the resource efficiency requirements of the IFC PS3, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g., use of additional water conservation measures, the use of alternative water supplies, water consumption offsets, evaluation of alternative project locations) that avoid or reduce water usage so that the project’s water consumption does not have significant negative impacts. FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for improving efficiency in its consumption of water, integrating the principles of cleaner production into product design and production processes with the objective of conserving water. Policies related to water management pertain to an organization's own operations. Since FMO's own operations were not identified as material in the DMA, this type of water management policies is not relevant for FMO. Since the water-related impacts that were identified to be material for FMO are not related to our own operations, there are no policies required to address water stress near one of FMO’s operating sites. E3-2 Key actions As part of the normal due diligence process, we identify performance gaps against our standards, and we agree with our customers on improvements that are required in relation to negative impacts on water and marine resources (e.g. impact of hazardous materials on ecosystem services, degradation of natural resources, water usage etc.). These improvements are translated into an action plan (ESAP) which is incorporated into the contract. The ESAP also stipulates timelines for the customers to close the actions (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'). Compliance with the ESAP and closing of actions is monitored as part of the customer credit review process which takes place annually. Where incidents take place, a corrective action plan may be required to mitigate and possibly remediate the impact; this can be agreed with the customer. E3-3 Targets FMO has not adopted targets related to water resources. However, FMO’s 90 percent ESG performance target includes but is not limited to water impact from related investments (incl. IFC PS3, 4 and 6). Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. 170 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E4 Introduction FMO recognizes the value of ecosystems that form the natural capital for the world economy. Their degradation poses a direct risk for FMO’s customers and the societies in which they operate. When we talk about biodiversity, we look at it from a broader perspective, taking into consideration nature and natural capital. While biodiversity and nature are not always explicitly singled out as specific objectives in the way FMO manages on sustainability-related matters (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO Management'). FMO’s impact management procedures are aligned with environmental conservation, sustainable use of natural resources, and protection of ecosystems. Furthermore, they promote consideration of how investments affect biodiversity and the pursuit of investments that support nature-based solutions and conservation goals. FMO aims to achieve positive impacts through biodiversity finance that are focused on for instance nature-based solutions and forestry- and regenerative agriculture investments. As per the 2030 Strategy, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity. Together with our partners, FMO committed to engage on climate adaptation and resilience, and biodiversity, by creating coalitions with key nature conservancy organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, promoting community and stakeholder engagement. E4 Impacts, risks and opportunities Table 24 below gives an overview of how each material IRO relates to policies, actions, and targets, which will be covered in the sections of this statement. Table 24. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential negative impact Impact on biodiversity from AFW investments as a result of land-use changes (e.g. deforestation, conversion of natural landscapes), insufficient consideration of the habitat function of agricultural lands through the introduction of monocrops or the use of non-native species agricultural production or poor water management, can contribute to habitat degradation. Land-use change Medium term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in hydro power plants by impacting marine/freshwater species migration paths and changing of natural hydrological cycles. Negative impacts from investments in hydro power plants Short term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target 171 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"related risks, and to better understand our dependencies and impacts on nature. We expect to continue developing our methodology and improving our ways of assessing dependencies and risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Our Climate Risk Report (see 'E1 - Impact, Risk and opportunity management') formed part of the input for the material risks and opportunities determined in our DMA. Our climate risk assessment explicitly covers physical and transition risks related to climate change, which also indirectly impacts nature, biodiversity and ecosystems. Within the climate risk assessment, the relevant risks for biodiversity and ecosystems are sometimes direct and sometimes indirect (as climate change can affect ecosystems and biodiversity). These risks have been covered as material under 'E1 Climate Change' and we did not find any additional material nature-related risks during our DMA. The outcome of our DMA concluded that biodiversity-related outside-in financial risks are currently not material to FMO. However, as our methodology to assess our dependency on nature continues to develop, we may identify material biodiversity-related risks in the future. Exploring biodiversity-related opportunities has been embedded into our 2030 Strategy, in which we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity as part of our SDG 13 ambition through the growth of our Green Label investments portfolios. As our methodology for assessing dependency on nature is still under development and was not considered during the DMA, we have not yet taken systemic risks into consideration. We did not consult with potentially affected communities specifically for the purposes of the DMA. As discussed in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management', we apply the relevant IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) in our investment process and due diligence, which may require consultation of potentially affected communities (depending on the investment) in order to avoid causing negative impacts on communities. Our approach towards affected communities is described further in our ESRS statement 'S3 Affected communities'. As the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems is not material to FMO’s own operations, the potential impacts on ecosystem services of relevance to affected communities in FMO’s own operations are not applicable. FMO does not have sites of its own that can create material impacts on biodiversity. Some of our investments can take place in physical locations that may be in or near biodiversity sensitive areas. We manage potential negative impacts in our investment process with the implementation of IFC PS6 (Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources). We assess on an individual project level whether it is necessary to implement climate mitigation measures. Our relevant process is described further in the section 'E4-2 Policies'. E4-1 Transition plan We identified material potential positive and negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in our downstream value chain. Additionally, we are developing our methodology on how to assess our dependencies on nature, and we are in the process of identifying potential risks from ecosystem degradation, regulatory and market shifts, climate change and biodiversity loss. Lastly, we have identified biodiversity-related opportunities as part of our 2030 Strategy, where we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity towards our SDG 13 ambition and Green Label growth target. As discussed in the previous section of this statement and in section 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', no material biodiversity and ecosystems-related risks were identified during the DMA. Therefore, our conclusion from our DMA is that FMO is resilient in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems. The DMA covered FMO’s upstream and downstream value chain, and FMO’s own operations. The time horizons used for the DMA were in line with the time horizons mentioned in ESRS 1. Furthermore, no specific stakeholder engagement was performed for the purposes of the DMA on the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems. 173 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As mentioned before, during the reporting period we were developing our methodology to assess FMO’s risks and dependencies related to nature. This methodology covers our entire portfolio (downstream value chain). This work is still in its early stages, and we expect that as we continue to develop our methodology further in the coming years, our understanding of FMO’s resilience in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems will also evolve. Lastly, during the reporting period, we developed our ‘Biodiversity roadmap’ to outline how we plan to address impacts, risks and opportunities in biodiversity, and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance in line with our 2030 Strategy (see 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'). E4-2 Policies Our material potential impacts related to the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems are mainly addressed by one policy: the Sustainability Policy and the relevant supporting documents, which together form the FMO Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU). Our 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan describe FMO’s commitment to increase investments in biodiversity. Below is a description of the relevant documents within the SPU: Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material biodiversity-related IROs. A complete description of the Sustainability Policy is described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social (E&S) impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. This emphasizes mandatory consultation with the local population affected by the project and specific plans available to compensate for any negative effects. Exclusion list: FMO’s exclusion list requires that an investment may not result in the ‘significant conversion or degradation of critical habitats’. Primary forests or forests of a high conservation value are classified as critical habitats. ESG management. The general criteria for screening and monitoring customers with regard to negative/adverse impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The following standards are relevant for biodiversity: i. IFC PS1: Assessment and management of environmental and social risks and impacts in relation to communities as well as disadvantaged and vulnerable groups ii. IFC PS6: Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural resources iii. IFC PS3 and 4 address the impacts of customer activities on ecosystem services and areas of importance to biodiversity that affect local communities Green Label Guidelines: the Green Label Guidelines provide the methodology and criteria for how to identify investments that are ex ante expected to have the positive impact we aim to create through our portfolio, including when it comes to preserving and growing natural capital and promoting biodiversity. FMO’s material biodiversity-related IROs are provided in the overview Table at the start of this chapter. These cover the relevant biodiversity drivers mentioned in the application requirements for ESRS E4 (with the exception of pollution which was not identified as a material topic for FMO) and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities. In practice, our ESG management process involves identifying, managing and monitoring potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. Ecosystem services are the benefits that people, including businesses, derive from ecosystems. FMO requires customers to identify and avoid negative impacts on biodiversity or ecosystems. Specifically, this requires customers to identify potential negative impacts (IFC PS1 and IFC PS6) such as habitat loss, degradation and fragmentation, possibility of invasive alien species introduction, overexploitation of a habitat and pollution (IFC PS3) that arise as a result of their activities. Where these potential negative impacts cannot be avoided, mitigation strategies and measures (e.g., avoiding impacts through exclusion of land areas within a site for conservation, introducing biological corridors, habitat restoration during or after operations etc.) are to be developed by our customers to minimize the negative impacts (IFC PS6). 174 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Additionally, customers engaged in primary production of living natural resources, such as forestry and agriculture, are required to manage these resources sustainably using industry-specific good management practices (IFC PS6) and this is to be demonstrated by independent verification or certification. Furthermore, in cases where customers are purchasing primary production (such as food and fiber commodities) from areas with a known potential negative impact of significant conversion of natural and/or critical habitats, FMO requires that these customers implement systems and verification practices to identify where the supply originates, the type of habitat of the area, review supply chains and limit procurement from suppliers where these impacts are identified (IFC PS6 and IFC PS1). Moreover, customer activities can negatively impact local communities in the following ways: 1. A customer’s operations may directly negatively impact priority ecosystem services that can result in adverse health and safety impacts on local communities (IFC PS4). For example, customer activities in the agricultural sector can result in the loss of natural buffer areas such as wetlands and mangroves which mitigate the effects of natural hazards such as landslides and flooding, thus resulting in increased vulnerability and community safety-related risks and impacts. Some of these impacts can be exacerbated by climate change (IFC PS4). 2. Customer operations can also negatively impact local communities whose livelihoods are dependent on biodiversity in these areas or ecosystem services (IFC PS1). These negative impacts should be identified and avoided. If deemed unavoidable, then customers are required to implement appropriate mitigative measures (IFC PS4) in consultation with affected local communities (IFC PS1). The process used by FMO to identify and manage IROs to local communities is described in S3. Throughout the investment process and as part of our due diligence, we assess our customers’ performance against the above standards. The outcome of the assessment is an integral part of the financial proposals that inform our investment decisions. Where negative impacts or gaps in the management of such negative impacts are identified, FMO agrees with the customer on measures and actions to be taken by the customer to close these performance gaps. These actions are formalized in an Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) which is included in the financing contract with the customer. By collaborating with our customers, we aim to address these gaps in order to effectively manage associated (material) negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. In this manner, FMO sees an opportunity to transform the agriculture sector in our markets through the use of sustainable, resource-efficient and resilient practices and business models throughout agricultural supply chains. We assess our investments for negative impacts and dependencies on nature (as described above) and use this analysis to identify investment opportunities. For example, some investments leave natural forests intact or preserve certain ecosystems while still profitably harvesting products. This is how we turn identified dependencies and negative impacts into opportunities for investment. In addition, the biodiversity-related parts of our Sustainability Policy and associated documents are linked to several other third party standards and initiatives: Our biodiversity commitments are linked to SDG 13 on climate action, as we actively participate in biodiversity efforts by forming partnerships with key conservation organizations, enhancing understanding of landscape approaches, and encouraging community and stakeholder involvement. Additionally, the European Regulation on Deforestation-Free Products (EUDR) came into force in 2023. This regulation requires companies to prove their products are deforestation-free from 30 December 2025. Although it will not affect FMO directly, it will become relevant as it poses a transition risk for many of our agrifood partners. It is applicable downstream, to customers in our portfolio (especially the Agribusiness, Food and Water portfolio). More information on how we consider acting upon this is included section 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'. The target of investing €10 billion in SDG 13-related investments by 2030 contributes to the positive impact of FMO and the opportunity for FMO to restore and regenerate ecosystems and create and develop new markets with a biodiversity positive impact. The biodiversity-related eligibility criteria for an investment to receive the Green Label are as follows: 175 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"A financed activity is either contributing to conserving/increasing biodiversity or the core business/ aim of the project is to conserve or increase biodiversity. The transition to, or maintenance of, silvo-pastoral systems, if no conversion of natural land is involved. Since we did not identify any material biodiversity-or ecosystem-related IROs for FMO’s own operations, we have not adopted any biodiversity and ecosystem protection policies covering FMO’s operational sites. Since FMO’s potential negative impacts through unsustainable land use change or agricultural practices were found to be material, our approach to managing these impacts is described above. The potential positive impact of investing in projects that promote sustainable land use through ecosystem restoration and regeneration is also described above. Sustainable oceans and sea are not material for FMO and therefore no related policies exist. Two policy aspects are relevant to how we address deforestation at FMO. First, FMO uses an exclusion list when evaluating potential investments. Part of this exclusion list is the fact that an investment may not significantly contribute to the conversion or degradation of a critical habitat, like primary or high conservation-value forests. Secondly, the IFC PS6 addresses deforestation by emphasizing the need to protect and conserve biodiversity, maintain ecosystem services, and manage living natural resources sustainably IFC PS6 requires customers to take proactive steps to address deforestation and its impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity. E4-3 Key actions We have formulated actions from the reporting period at the operational level, which mainly address the material IROs, and at the strategic level. Additionally, we present the main future planned actions. The scope for these actions concerns our downstream investment portfolio. Operational actions in 2024 1. Increase the Green-labelled share of our portfolio. Investments are assessed based on potential impact and include increasing biodiversity positive-related investments in line with the relevant biodiversity criteria in our Green Label. Our investment teams seek opportunities in biodiversity finance on an ongoing basis. Our Sustainable Finance Advisory team provides investment teams with ongoing support on such transactions. Investment teams receive regular training on the label and opportunities in these focus areas. 2. Keep using and improving the IFC PS6 standard application including training and ESAPs at customer level to manage potential negative impact. Strategic actions in 2024 1. We developed a Biodiversity roadmap that describes how we plan to manage biodiversity impacts, risks and opportunities and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance by 2030. 2. We started developing our methodology to assess our dependency on nature, as part of our climate risk assessment project that is covered in 'E1 Climate change'. 3. We organized a training on managing negative impacts of biodiversity, in line with IFC PS6 to allow staff to upgrade their existing knowledge on the IFC PS6 content or process. Future planned actions 1. Green Label update planned for 2025. 2. KPI development to monitor strategic impact ambitions. We started the development of two KPIs to monitor strategic impact ambitions in 2024, covering both biodiversity opportunities and potential negative impacts; these are expected to be in place earliest in 2026. 3. Continue developing a pipeline for biodiversity financing in line with our strategic commitments. 176 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Table 25. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems Scope of actions The actions apply to FMO's value chain, with a focus on the downstream value chain. Time horizon · Operational/BAU actions are implemented within the reporting period. · Strategic actions are implemented in the period 2024-2026. · Future actions are all planned within the timeframe of the 2030 strategy. Actions taken to provide for and cooperate in or support the provision of remedy (if applicable) N/A Progress of actions As this is the first year we report within the structure of the ESRS, we do not report progress on actions from prior periods. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. Operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) (if required) No significant operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) related to implementing actions. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. In 'ESRS 2 - Governance of sustainability matters' we provide information on the teams and departments that are involved with the management of material IROs, which relate to the implementation of the operational actions described above. No actions described require significant OpEx or CapEx. In principle, we do not use biodiversity offsets in our action plans. However, on an individual investment level, FMO’s Biodiversity Mitigation hierarchy is based on IFC PS6 and denotes offsetting as a last resort for residual impact after following the implementation of prevention/avoidance, minimization, and restoration measures. Biodiversity offsets adhere to the ’like-for-like or 'better' principle and are designed and implemented to achieve measurable conservation outcomes that can reasonably be expected to result in no net loss of biodiversity and net gain in critical habitats. Additionally, on an individual project level, we identify any needs for offsets and apply specific relevant key performance indicators on a case-by-case basis. The same applies to financing effects and types, areas and quality criteria applied to the offsets. These will therefore not be described in more detail here as they are not part of our action plans. IFC PS6 Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources forms a key element of FMO’s ESG performance assessment of direct high-risk customers. When significant impacts on biodiversity are identified, our projects must develop and implement a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP), which explicitly describe the project’s mitigation strategy and how local and indigenous knowledge and nature-based solutions are incorporated into conservation strategies and actions. FMO ensures its projects consult protected area managers, affected communities, indigenous peoples and other stakeholders. Affected communities should participate in this identification process in accordance with the stakeholder engagement process as defined in IFC PS1. This process involves Indigenous Peoples’ representative bodies and organizations as well as members of the affected communities of indigenous peoples and provide sufficient time for indigenous peoples’ decision-making processes. Our stakeholder engagement process involves disclosure and dissemination of information, consultation and participation, grievance mechanism, and ongoing reporting to affected communities. Where projects are likely to generate adverse E&S impacts to affected communities, FMO will implement a Stakeholder Engagement Plan tailored to their characteristics and interests. Following IFC PS6, FMO makes every reasonable effort to verify that during this process, community representatives represent the views of affected communities and that they can be relied upon to faithfully communicate the results of consultations to their constituents. E4-4 Targets We currently have no specific biodiversity targets to manage the material IROs, and for the time being, we do not intend to set any specific targets. This topic is continuously evolving, which makes it currently challenging to predict progress and set reliable targets. 177 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"We do, however, have two portfolio targets (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management') that have a connection to our biodiversity portfolio: We register and monitor the different types of ESG risks of our high-risk customers and aim to have at least 90 percent of the ESG risks managed at an adequate level by the customers in our target list. This includes biodiversity-related risks through IFC PS6. We aim to grow our SDG 13-related investment portfolio to €10 billion by 2030, which includes but is not limited to biodiversity-related investments. E4-5 Metrics On an annual basis, FMO tracks entity specific metrics related to Biodiversity. These metrics enable us to monitor our objective regarding positive impact, as well as to identify, manage and monitor potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems through our impact management process. We assess the potential positive biodiversity impacts of investments ex-ante. This assessment is done through our Green Label, which we assign to investments that are expected to benefit biodiversity. The Green Label includes but is not limited to Biodiversity. FMO tracks the performance of high-risk customers against the requirements of the IFC PS’s in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. The methodology used to determine this metric and any identified performance gaps for the year as well as the Green Label have been outlined in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. 178 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
""
RISK MANAGEMENT 03
"This chapter provides an overview of FMO's risk governance and risk management approach. The sections describe the risk domains relevant to FMO and developments throughout 2024. Together with the quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures - available on FMO's website - it constitutes FMO's Pillar 3 disclosure. Risk governance FMO defines risk as the effect of uncertainty on objectives. FMO has a comprehensive framework in place to manage and control risk, reflecting its banking license, State Support Agreement and a mandate that involves doing business in increased risk countries. The risk management framework helps us realize our ambitions and safeguard our viability. Risk management practices are integrated across the organization, from day-to-day activities to strategic planning, to ensure both compliance with relevant regulations and adherence to the risk appetite. A sound risk management framework is in place to preserve FMO's integrity, which is essential for fulfilling its mission and upholding its good reputation. The Management Board defines and promotes the desired corporate culture and high ethical and professional standards. Employees are encouraged to take the right risks in an informed manner, with integrity and careful consideration of the interests of all stakeholders. The risk management framework is based on the 'three lines model', where the first line (Investment department and supporting functions) is challenged and advised by the second line (Risk department, Compliance department and Credit department), and the third line (Internal Audit) that performs independent assessments of the functioning of the first and second line. The organizational structure is shown below. The Management Board has established risk committees to assist it in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities regarding the risk appetite of FMO, the risk management framework and the governance structure that supports it. The risk committees and their responsibilities are described below: The Financial Risk Committee (FRC). The FRC is appointed by the Management Board for the purpose of monitoring, challenging and deciding upon the execution of financial risk management within FMO. The Non-Financial Risk Committee (NFRC). The NFRC is appointed by the Management Board for the purpose of monitoring, challenging and deciding upon the execution of non-financial risk and strategic risk management within FMO. Both the FRC and NFRC are chaired by the Chief Risk Officer (or Director Risk in her absence). Several sub-committees report into the FRC and NFRC, such as the Investment Committee, the Integrity and RISK MANAGEMENT 63 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Issue Management Committee, the Corporate Information Security Office and the Regulatory Monitoring Group. These sub-committees are chaired by directors. Risk appetite and taxonomy The risk taxonomy defines the main risk types and risk subtypes FMO is exposed to in the pursuit of its objectives. This common set of risk categories, types and subtypes facilitates the structuring of other elements of the risk management framework, such as the risk appetite and risk policies. The risk appetite defines appetite bandwidths alert and tolerance levels for main risk types and subtypes. The Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) is reviewed by the Management Board and approved by the Supervisory Board on an annual basis. If necessary, it can be revised during the year in the event of material developments or a change in the strategic goals. The risk appetite, governance and monitoring metrics for each risk domain are described in more detail in the sections below. Pillar 3 disclosure FMO publishes the required Pillar 3 disclosures on an annual basis alongside the publication of the annual report. These documents fulfil the Pillar 3 disclosure requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) and Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR). The objective of FMO’s disclosure policies is to ensure maximum transparency in a practical manner. The consolidation scope for prudential reporting is equal to the accounting scope for FMO. FMO was granted the solo waiver for prudential reporting based on Article 7 and therefore only reports figures related to CRR/CRD on a consolidated basis. Climate-related and environmental financial related risk Climate-related and environmental financial risk is not a separate risk type but an external causal factor of FMO’s existing risk types. FMO defines climate-related and environmental financial risk as the risk of any negative financial impact on FMO stemming from the current or prospective impact of climate- related and environmental factors on FMO directly (e.g. on FMO’s own operations and policies regarding its aggregate investment portfolio) or indirectly, (e.g. through FMO’s customers and invested assets). In 2021, FMO began a project to embed climate-related and environmental risks within the organization, based on the European Central Bank (ECB) Guide on Climate-Related and Environmental (C&E) Risks. Throughout 2024, FMO has reported quarterly portfolio scans to its Financial Risk Committee. The portfolio scan is an aggregated overview of climate-related risks in FMO’s investment portfolio (i.e. all loans and private equity exposures), and provides an initial assessment of climate- 64 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
""
"E3 Water and Marine Resources E3 Introduction FMO recognizes the critical role of water management in supporting climate and nature goals, ecosystems, and economic development. FMO invests in projects dependent on freshwater resources in the water, energy and agrifood portfolios, and impacts are expected regarding both water quality and water availability. As part of the impact management strategy, FMO has an ambition to invest in water efficient projects that align with the wider goals of environmental protection, safeguard affected communities, and ensure the sustainable use of water resources. By addressing water impacts, FMO aims to contribute to sustainable development and help mitigate the negative impacts of climate change on water resources. E3 Impacts, risks and opportunities The following table provides an overview of how each impact, risk and opportunity (IRO) relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively. The impacts caused by our own operations fell below the materiality threshold. However, two negative impacts in our investment portfolio are considered to be material. It should be noted that the double materiality assessment (DMA) for E1 on Climate included a Climate Risk Assessment, through which a material financial risk related to water dependency was identified. This risk will be reported under 'E1 Climate change' as it relates to climate change effects that lead to increased water scarcity. Table 23. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Water withdrawals Actual negative impact The actual negative impacts on water quality and availability resulting from significant water usage or degradation by customers and/or projects financed by FMO. Water scarcity and degradation undermine the long-term sustainability of water resources, posing risks to ecosystems, biodiversity, and the livelihoods of communities dependent on water for agriculture and other purposes Degraded water quality and reduced availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target Water withdrawals Actual negative impact Actual impact on water withdrawals through the creation of reservoirs because of construction of hydro power dams and/or generators by our customers. Water availability Short term Downstream investment portfolio Sustainability Policy No specific target E3-1 Policies Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material water- related IROs. The Sustainability Policy is mostly related to our (positive and negative) impacts in our downstream value chain and is part of the Sustainability Policy Universe. The ESG management approach for screening and monitoring customers with regard to potential negative impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. FMO has adopted 169 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"the IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) as its operating standard. The following documents are relevant for water: a. IFC PS3, 4 and 6 provide specific guidance on water related topics, as they respectively cover Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention, Community Health, Safety, and Security, and Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. b. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. FMO’s policies that address water-related impacts are aimed at reducing the material negative impacts downstream in FMO’s value chain. FMO aims to support customers to improve their sustainable use of natural resources, such as water, and to prevent degradation of ecosystems. FMO assesses its direct and indirect potential and existing investments over time according to ESG criteria such as the presence and quality of the E&S management system, availability, quantity and quality of resources such as water for local communities and related impacts on resource efficiency including the consumption and use of water. The scope of this assessment applies to the financed activities and their primary suppliers, though FMO may look beyond the direct financed activities when salient risks are expected in the value chain. Potable water availability or sanitary wastewater collection, treatment, or discharge are also considered, whereby opportunities are explored to improve these aspects, especially where these can be provided at marginal cost to the project. When projects are a potentially significant consumer of water, in addition to applying the resource efficiency requirements of the IFC PS3, FMO requires its customers to adopt measures (e.g., use of additional water conservation measures, the use of alternative water supplies, water consumption offsets, evaluation of alternative project locations) that avoid or reduce water usage so that the project’s water consumption does not have significant negative impacts. FMO requires that projects implement technically and financially feasible and cost-effective measures for improving efficiency in its consumption of water, integrating the principles of cleaner production into product design and production processes with the objective of conserving water. Policies related to water management pertain to an organization's own operations. Since FMO's own operations were not identified as material in the DMA, this type of water management policies is not relevant for FMO. Since the water-related impacts that were identified to be material for FMO are not related to our own operations, there are no policies required to address water stress near one of FMO’s operating sites. E3-2 Key actions As part of the normal due diligence process, we identify performance gaps against our standards, and we agree with our customers on improvements that are required in relation to negative impacts on water and marine resources (e.g. impact of hazardous materials on ecosystem services, degradation of natural resources, water usage etc.). These improvements are translated into an action plan (ESAP) which is incorporated into the contract. The ESAP also stipulates timelines for the customers to close the actions (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'). Compliance with the ESAP and closing of actions is monitored as part of the customer credit review process which takes place annually. Where incidents take place, a corrective action plan may be required to mitigate and possibly remediate the impact; this can be agreed with the customer. E3-3 Targets FMO has not adopted targets related to water resources. However, FMO’s 90 percent ESG performance target includes but is not limited to water impact from related investments (incl. IFC PS3, 4 and 6). Detailed information on this target is provided in 'ESRS 2 – IRO management'. 170 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems E4 Introduction FMO recognizes the value of ecosystems that form the natural capital for the world economy. Their degradation poses a direct risk for FMO’s customers and the societies in which they operate. When we talk about biodiversity, we look at it from a broader perspective, taking into consideration nature and natural capital. While biodiversity and nature are not always explicitly singled out as specific objectives in the way FMO manages on sustainability-related matters (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO Management'). FMO’s impact management procedures are aligned with environmental conservation, sustainable use of natural resources, and protection of ecosystems. Furthermore, they promote consideration of how investments affect biodiversity and the pursuit of investments that support nature-based solutions and conservation goals. FMO aims to achieve positive impacts through biodiversity finance that are focused on for instance nature-based solutions and forestry- and regenerative agriculture investments. As per the 2030 Strategy, FMO aims to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity. Together with our partners, FMO committed to engage on climate adaptation and resilience, and biodiversity, by creating coalitions with key nature conservancy organizations, contributing to the understanding of the landscape approach, promoting community and stakeholder engagement. E4 Impacts, risks and opportunities Table 24 below gives an overview of how each material IRO relates to policies, actions, and targets, which will be covered in the sections of this statement. Table 24. Overview of how each IRO relates to the policies, actions and targets respectively ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential negative impact Impact on biodiversity from AFW investments as a result of land-use changes (e.g. deforestation, conversion of natural landscapes), insufficient consideration of the habitat function of agricultural lands through the introduction of monocrops or the use of non-native species agricultural production or poor water management, can contribute to habitat degradation. Land-use change Medium term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in hydro power plants by impacting marine/freshwater species migration paths and changing of natural hydrological cycles. Negative impacts from investments in hydro power plants Short term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target 171 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in large-scale wind turbines can affect bird and other animal migration paths, and can lead to the loss and fragmentation of wildlife habitat. Negative impacts of investments in large-scale wind turbines Medium term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Actual negative impact Impact through the investments in large-scale solar panels that can lead to the loss and fragmentation of wildlife habitat. Negative impacts of investments in large-scale solar panels Medium term Downstream (Energy portfolio) Sustainability Policy ESG impact using IFC Performance Standards. No specific target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Potential positive impact Impact on biodiversity and other ecosystems through the financing of AFW investments and projects that are specifically aimed at ecosystem restoration and regeneration. Finance projects that restore and regenerate ecosystems Long term Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy Increase volume of investments related to biodiversity. SDG 13 target Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent & condition of ecosystems Opportunity The opportunity for FMO to identify, create and develop new markets with a biodiversity positive impact (e.g. forestry projects, regenerative agriculture) into bankable projects, to deploy and attract public or private funds and generate return on investment at scale. Opportunity to develop new biodiversity positive markets Downstream (AFW portfolio) Sustainability Policy Increase volume of investments related to biodiversity. No specific target We identified biodiversity and ecosystems to be a material topic because of our potential and actual positive and negative impacts from our investments in the agrifood, water, and energy sectors (downstream value chain), and because of the developments in biodiversity-positive financing markets that can create material opportunities for FMO. However, currently we do not consider biodiversity a material topic from the financial risk perspective. For more details, please refer to our double materiality assessment process (DMA) as described in 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment'. As part of our assessment on the materiality of the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems in our own operations and downstream value chain we conducted desk research into the agrifood, water and energy sectors looking into international sector standards, peers, trends, and media coverage. Additionally, we considered FMO’s 2030 Strategy and current ways of working (such as our ESG management process, climate risk assessment, Green Label assessments, and forestry strategy). As such, we took into consideration impact drivers such as climate change, land-use change, the impact on marine and freshwater-use, direct exploitation and invasive alien species and pollution, as well as impacts on the state of species, impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems and impacts and dependencies on ecosystem services. While our DMA was being conducted, we were also in the process of creating a methodology to assess our dependency on nature. As this methodology was still in early stages of development during the reporting period, we did not take it into consideration during our DMA. For the methodology to assess dependencies on nature we are applying the ENCORE (Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure) materiality ratings to help evaluate our exposure to nature- 172 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"related risks, and to better understand our dependencies and impacts on nature. We expect to continue developing our methodology and improving our ways of assessing dependencies and risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. Our Climate Risk Report (see 'E1 - Impact, Risk and opportunity management') formed part of the input for the material risks and opportunities determined in our DMA. Our climate risk assessment explicitly covers physical and transition risks related to climate change, which also indirectly impacts nature, biodiversity and ecosystems. Within the climate risk assessment, the relevant risks for biodiversity and ecosystems are sometimes direct and sometimes indirect (as climate change can affect ecosystems and biodiversity). These risks have been covered as material under 'E1 Climate Change' and we did not find any additional material nature-related risks during our DMA. The outcome of our DMA concluded that biodiversity-related outside-in financial risks are currently not material to FMO. However, as our methodology to assess our dependency on nature continues to develop, we may identify material biodiversity-related risks in the future. Exploring biodiversity-related opportunities has been embedded into our 2030 Strategy, in which we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity as part of our SDG 13 ambition through the growth of our Green Label investments portfolios. As our methodology for assessing dependency on nature is still under development and was not considered during the DMA, we have not yet taken systemic risks into consideration. We did not consult with potentially affected communities specifically for the purposes of the DMA. As discussed in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management', we apply the relevant IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) in our investment process and due diligence, which may require consultation of potentially affected communities (depending on the investment) in order to avoid causing negative impacts on communities. Our approach towards affected communities is described further in our ESRS statement 'S3 Affected communities'. As the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems is not material to FMO’s own operations, the potential impacts on ecosystem services of relevance to affected communities in FMO’s own operations are not applicable. FMO does not have sites of its own that can create material impacts on biodiversity. Some of our investments can take place in physical locations that may be in or near biodiversity sensitive areas. We manage potential negative impacts in our investment process with the implementation of IFC PS6 (Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources). We assess on an individual project level whether it is necessary to implement climate mitigation measures. Our relevant process is described further in the section 'E4-2 Policies'. E4-1 Transition plan We identified material potential positive and negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems in our downstream value chain. Additionally, we are developing our methodology on how to assess our dependencies on nature, and we are in the process of identifying potential risks from ecosystem degradation, regulatory and market shifts, climate change and biodiversity loss. Lastly, we have identified biodiversity-related opportunities as part of our 2030 Strategy, where we aim to increase the volume of investments contributing to biodiversity towards our SDG 13 ambition and Green Label growth target. As discussed in the previous section of this statement and in section 'ESRS 2 - Double materiality assessment', no material biodiversity and ecosystems-related risks were identified during the DMA. Therefore, our conclusion from our DMA is that FMO is resilient in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems. The DMA covered FMO’s upstream and downstream value chain, and FMO’s own operations. The time horizons used for the DMA were in line with the time horizons mentioned in ESRS 1. Furthermore, no specific stakeholder engagement was performed for the purposes of the DMA on the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems. 173 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"As mentioned before, during the reporting period we were developing our methodology to assess FMO’s risks and dependencies related to nature. This methodology covers our entire portfolio (downstream value chain). This work is still in its early stages, and we expect that as we continue to develop our methodology further in the coming years, our understanding of FMO’s resilience in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems will also evolve. Lastly, during the reporting period, we developed our ‘Biodiversity roadmap’ to outline how we plan to address impacts, risks and opportunities in biodiversity, and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance in line with our 2030 Strategy (see 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'). E4-2 Policies Our material potential impacts related to the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems are mainly addressed by one policy: the Sustainability Policy and the relevant supporting documents, which together form the FMO Sustainability Policy Universe (SPU). Our 2030 Strategy and Climate Action Plan describe FMO’s commitment to increase investments in biodiversity. Below is a description of the relevant documents within the SPU: Our Sustainability Policy and related underlying documents outline how we manage our material biodiversity-related IROs. A complete description of the Sustainability Policy is described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. Our Position Statement on Hydropower Plants outlines our approach to investing in hydroelectric projects, emphasizing the balance between harnessing their economic and environmental benefits and rigorously assessing and mitigating potential technical, environmental, and social (E&S) impacts, including adherence to IFC PS and continuous monitoring. This emphasizes mandatory consultation with the local population affected by the project and specific plans available to compensate for any negative effects. Exclusion list: FMO’s exclusion list requires that an investment may not result in the ‘significant conversion or degradation of critical habitats’. Primary forests or forests of a high conservation value are classified as critical habitats. ESG management. The general criteria for screening and monitoring customers with regard to negative/adverse impacts on local communities are described in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. The following standards are relevant for biodiversity: i. IFC PS1: Assessment and management of environmental and social risks and impacts in relation to communities as well as disadvantaged and vulnerable groups ii. IFC PS6: Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural resources iii. IFC PS3 and 4 address the impacts of customer activities on ecosystem services and areas of importance to biodiversity that affect local communities Green Label Guidelines: the Green Label Guidelines provide the methodology and criteria for how to identify investments that are ex ante expected to have the positive impact we aim to create through our portfolio, including when it comes to preserving and growing natural capital and promoting biodiversity. FMO’s material biodiversity-related IROs are provided in the overview Table at the start of this chapter. These cover the relevant biodiversity drivers mentioned in the application requirements for ESRS E4 (with the exception of pollution which was not identified as a material topic for FMO) and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities. In practice, our ESG management process involves identifying, managing and monitoring potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. Ecosystem services are the benefits that people, including businesses, derive from ecosystems. FMO requires customers to identify and avoid negative impacts on biodiversity or ecosystems. Specifically, this requires customers to identify potential negative impacts (IFC PS1 and IFC PS6) such as habitat loss, degradation and fragmentation, possibility of invasive alien species introduction, overexploitation of a habitat and pollution (IFC PS3) that arise as a result of their activities. Where these potential negative impacts cannot be avoided, mitigation strategies and measures (e.g., avoiding impacts through exclusion of land areas within a site for conservation, introducing biological corridors, habitat restoration during or after operations etc.) are to be developed by our customers to minimize the negative impacts (IFC PS6). 174 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Additionally, customers engaged in primary production of living natural resources, such as forestry and agriculture, are required to manage these resources sustainably using industry-specific good management practices (IFC PS6) and this is to be demonstrated by independent verification or certification. Furthermore, in cases where customers are purchasing primary production (such as food and fiber commodities) from areas with a known potential negative impact of significant conversion of natural and/or critical habitats, FMO requires that these customers implement systems and verification practices to identify where the supply originates, the type of habitat of the area, review supply chains and limit procurement from suppliers where these impacts are identified (IFC PS6 and IFC PS1). Moreover, customer activities can negatively impact local communities in the following ways: 1. A customer’s operations may directly negatively impact priority ecosystem services that can result in adverse health and safety impacts on local communities (IFC PS4). For example, customer activities in the agricultural sector can result in the loss of natural buffer areas such as wetlands and mangroves which mitigate the effects of natural hazards such as landslides and flooding, thus resulting in increased vulnerability and community safety-related risks and impacts. Some of these impacts can be exacerbated by climate change (IFC PS4). 2. Customer operations can also negatively impact local communities whose livelihoods are dependent on biodiversity in these areas or ecosystem services (IFC PS1). These negative impacts should be identified and avoided. If deemed unavoidable, then customers are required to implement appropriate mitigative measures (IFC PS4) in consultation with affected local communities (IFC PS1). The process used by FMO to identify and manage IROs to local communities is described in S3. Throughout the investment process and as part of our due diligence, we assess our customers’ performance against the above standards. The outcome of the assessment is an integral part of the financial proposals that inform our investment decisions. Where negative impacts or gaps in the management of such negative impacts are identified, FMO agrees with the customer on measures and actions to be taken by the customer to close these performance gaps. These actions are formalized in an Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) which is included in the financing contract with the customer. By collaborating with our customers, we aim to address these gaps in order to effectively manage associated (material) negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. In this manner, FMO sees an opportunity to transform the agriculture sector in our markets through the use of sustainable, resource-efficient and resilient practices and business models throughout agricultural supply chains. We assess our investments for negative impacts and dependencies on nature (as described above) and use this analysis to identify investment opportunities. For example, some investments leave natural forests intact or preserve certain ecosystems while still profitably harvesting products. This is how we turn identified dependencies and negative impacts into opportunities for investment. In addition, the biodiversity-related parts of our Sustainability Policy and associated documents are linked to several other third party standards and initiatives: Our biodiversity commitments are linked to SDG 13 on climate action, as we actively participate in biodiversity efforts by forming partnerships with key conservation organizations, enhancing understanding of landscape approaches, and encouraging community and stakeholder involvement. Additionally, the European Regulation on Deforestation-Free Products (EUDR) came into force in 2023. This regulation requires companies to prove their products are deforestation-free from 30 December 2025. Although it will not affect FMO directly, it will become relevant as it poses a transition risk for many of our agrifood partners. It is applicable downstream, to customers in our portfolio (especially the Agribusiness, Food and Water portfolio). More information on how we consider acting upon this is included section 'E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems'. The target of investing €10 billion in SDG 13-related investments by 2030 contributes to the positive impact of FMO and the opportunity for FMO to restore and regenerate ecosystems and create and develop new markets with a biodiversity positive impact. The biodiversity-related eligibility criteria for an investment to receive the Green Label are as follows: 175 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"A financed activity is either contributing to conserving/increasing biodiversity or the core business/ aim of the project is to conserve or increase biodiversity. The transition to, or maintenance of, silvo-pastoral systems, if no conversion of natural land is involved. Since we did not identify any material biodiversity-or ecosystem-related IROs for FMO’s own operations, we have not adopted any biodiversity and ecosystem protection policies covering FMO’s operational sites. Since FMO’s potential negative impacts through unsustainable land use change or agricultural practices were found to be material, our approach to managing these impacts is described above. The potential positive impact of investing in projects that promote sustainable land use through ecosystem restoration and regeneration is also described above. Sustainable oceans and sea are not material for FMO and therefore no related policies exist. Two policy aspects are relevant to how we address deforestation at FMO. First, FMO uses an exclusion list when evaluating potential investments. Part of this exclusion list is the fact that an investment may not significantly contribute to the conversion or degradation of a critical habitat, like primary or high conservation-value forests. Secondly, the IFC PS6 addresses deforestation by emphasizing the need to protect and conserve biodiversity, maintain ecosystem services, and manage living natural resources sustainably IFC PS6 requires customers to take proactive steps to address deforestation and its impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity. E4-3 Key actions We have formulated actions from the reporting period at the operational level, which mainly address the material IROs, and at the strategic level. Additionally, we present the main future planned actions. The scope for these actions concerns our downstream investment portfolio. Operational actions in 2024 1. Increase the Green-labelled share of our portfolio. Investments are assessed based on potential impact and include increasing biodiversity positive-related investments in line with the relevant biodiversity criteria in our Green Label. Our investment teams seek opportunities in biodiversity finance on an ongoing basis. Our Sustainable Finance Advisory team provides investment teams with ongoing support on such transactions. Investment teams receive regular training on the label and opportunities in these focus areas. 2. Keep using and improving the IFC PS6 standard application including training and ESAPs at customer level to manage potential negative impact. Strategic actions in 2024 1. We developed a Biodiversity roadmap that describes how we plan to manage biodiversity impacts, risks and opportunities and increase investments in biodiversity positive finance by 2030. 2. We started developing our methodology to assess our dependency on nature, as part of our climate risk assessment project that is covered in 'E1 Climate change'. 3. We organized a training on managing negative impacts of biodiversity, in line with IFC PS6 to allow staff to upgrade their existing knowledge on the IFC PS6 content or process. Future planned actions 1. Green Label update planned for 2025. 2. KPI development to monitor strategic impact ambitions. We started the development of two KPIs to monitor strategic impact ambitions in 2024, covering both biodiversity opportunities and potential negative impacts; these are expected to be in place earliest in 2026. 3. Continue developing a pipeline for biodiversity financing in line with our strategic commitments. 176 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"Table 25. Minimum Disclosure Requirements for actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems Scope of actions The actions apply to FMO's value chain, with a focus on the downstream value chain. Time horizon · Operational/BAU actions are implemented within the reporting period. · Strategic actions are implemented in the period 2024-2026. · Future actions are all planned within the timeframe of the 2030 strategy. Actions taken to provide for and cooperate in or support the provision of remedy (if applicable) N/A Progress of actions As this is the first year we report within the structure of the ESRS, we do not report progress on actions from prior periods. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. Operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) (if required) No significant operational expenditures (OpEx) and/or capital expenditures (CapEx) related to implementing actions. For more information refer to 'ESRS 2 - Our sustainability reporting approach'. In 'ESRS 2 - Governance of sustainability matters' we provide information on the teams and departments that are involved with the management of material IROs, which relate to the implementation of the operational actions described above. No actions described require significant OpEx or CapEx. In principle, we do not use biodiversity offsets in our action plans. However, on an individual investment level, FMO’s Biodiversity Mitigation hierarchy is based on IFC PS6 and denotes offsetting as a last resort for residual impact after following the implementation of prevention/avoidance, minimization, and restoration measures. Biodiversity offsets adhere to the ’like-for-like or 'better' principle and are designed and implemented to achieve measurable conservation outcomes that can reasonably be expected to result in no net loss of biodiversity and net gain in critical habitats. Additionally, on an individual project level, we identify any needs for offsets and apply specific relevant key performance indicators on a case-by-case basis. The same applies to financing effects and types, areas and quality criteria applied to the offsets. These will therefore not be described in more detail here as they are not part of our action plans. IFC PS6 Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources forms a key element of FMO’s ESG performance assessment of direct high-risk customers. When significant impacts on biodiversity are identified, our projects must develop and implement a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP), which explicitly describe the project’s mitigation strategy and how local and indigenous knowledge and nature-based solutions are incorporated into conservation strategies and actions. FMO ensures its projects consult protected area managers, affected communities, indigenous peoples and other stakeholders. Affected communities should participate in this identification process in accordance with the stakeholder engagement process as defined in IFC PS1. This process involves Indigenous Peoples’ representative bodies and organizations as well as members of the affected communities of indigenous peoples and provide sufficient time for indigenous peoples’ decision-making processes. Our stakeholder engagement process involves disclosure and dissemination of information, consultation and participation, grievance mechanism, and ongoing reporting to affected communities. Where projects are likely to generate adverse E&S impacts to affected communities, FMO will implement a Stakeholder Engagement Plan tailored to their characteristics and interests. Following IFC PS6, FMO makes every reasonable effort to verify that during this process, community representatives represent the views of affected communities and that they can be relied upon to faithfully communicate the results of consultations to their constituents. E4-4 Targets We currently have no specific biodiversity targets to manage the material IROs, and for the time being, we do not intend to set any specific targets. This topic is continuously evolving, which makes it currently challenging to predict progress and set reliable targets. 177 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"We do, however, have two portfolio targets (see 'ESRS 2 - IRO management') that have a connection to our biodiversity portfolio: We register and monitor the different types of ESG risks of our high-risk customers and aim to have at least 90 percent of the ESG risks managed at an adequate level by the customers in our target list. This includes biodiversity-related risks through IFC PS6. We aim to grow our SDG 13-related investment portfolio to €10 billion by 2030, which includes but is not limited to biodiversity-related investments. E4-5 Metrics On an annual basis, FMO tracks entity specific metrics related to Biodiversity. These metrics enable us to monitor our objective regarding positive impact, as well as to identify, manage and monitor potential and actual negative impacts caused by our customers in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems through our impact management process. We assess the potential positive biodiversity impacts of investments ex-ante. This assessment is done through our Green Label, which we assign to investments that are expected to benefit biodiversity. The Green Label includes but is not limited to Biodiversity. FMO tracks the performance of high-risk customers against the requirements of the IFC PS’s in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems. The methodology used to determine this metric and any identified performance gaps for the year as well as the Green Label have been outlined in 'ESRS 2 - IRO management'. 178 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"
"S1 Own Workforce S1 Introduction FMO will continue its commitment to further increase its impact in the coming years. In addition to the total number of employees, different skillsets will need to be developed to meet changing requirements in respect of impact & ESG themes, regulations and stakeholder expectations, as well as our strategic ambitions. FMO is actively cultivating a culture that values diversity, quality, integrity, and making a positive impact on society. We have an ambitious strategy towards 2030 and recognize the role of culture in long-term value creation. FMO is committed to fostering a work environment that prioritizes the wellbeing and development of its workforce and enabling a healthy and inspiring working environment. FMO provides equal treatment and opportunities for all and strives to create a workplace where everyone can thrive. In terms of FMO’s commitment to corporate culture, we comply with the Dutch Labor Law and Collective Labor Agreement (CLA Banks) to ensure employee rights and wellbeing are fully incorporated. Comprehensive onboarding and training programs give employees an understanding of FMO’s vision, strategy, and human rights fundamentals. FMO’s strategy integrates the interests, views, and rights of its workforce through a strong commitment to human rights, and embedded impact management framework following international standards like the UNGPs and OECD Guidelines to guide its human rights practices and sustainability policy with a focus on investments and customers, but also with respect to our own organization. This approach ensures that the rights, including labor rights, of people within FMO are respected and upheld. This sustainability statement describes FMO’s guidelines, processes, actions, metrics, and targets related to employees and non-employees, enabling the readers to understand its strategy, approach, processes, procedures, and performance in this area. FMO employees are individuals with an employment contract with FMO or a regional office subsidiary, whether for a definite or indefinite period. This includes the regional offices in South Africa, Kenya (branches), and Costa Rica (subsidiary). Non-employees include a variety of individuals such as contractors (including self-employed persons), consultants and secondees. Third Party contractors (security, catering, and cleaning) and Interns are excluded. All FMO employees and non-employees who can be materially impacted are included under this statement. S1 Impacts, risks and opportunities We identified the following impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) during the double materiality assessment (DMA). Table 26. IROs and Policies and Actions and Targets ESRS Subtopic Material impact, risk, opportunity Description Short description & reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Value chain location Policy Actions Targets Working conditions Actual positive impact The actual positive impact on its own workforce, as a result of FMO fostering a working environment that prioritizes the health, safety, and well- being of employees, leading to positive working conditions for employees. Working conditions of our own workforce Short term Own operations No specific target 179 FMO annual report 2024 Report of the MB Report of the SB Risk Management Sustainability Statement Financial Statements ♦"

--- CLARIANE_DEU_2024_UK ---
"2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)(d) Economic activities Code(s)(a) CapEx Proportion of CapEx in 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) CapEx in 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitional activity CapEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1+A.2) (A) 575.9 63% 7% 57% - - - - 32% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES CapEx of Taxonomy- non-eligible activities (B) 331.4 37% TOTAL (A + B) 907.4 100% Information (a) - CCM for climate change mitigation; - CCA for climate change adaptation; - WTR for water and marine resources; - CE for circular economy; - PPC for pollution prevention and control; - BIO for biodiversity protection and ecosystems. (b) YES – Taxonomy-eligible activity and taxonomy-aligned in respect of the environmental objective; NO – Taxonomy-eligible activity but not taxonomy-aligned in respect of the environmental objective; N/EL – Not eligible: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity in respect of the environmental objective. (c) EL – Taxonomy-eligible activity in respect of the objective defined; N/EL – Taxonomy-non-eligible activity in respect of the objective defined. (d) For an activity to be reported in section A.1, all DNSH criteria and all minimum safeguards must be met. For activities identified under several environmental objectives in the taxonomy, the breakdown is as follows: Proportion of CapEx/total CapEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective Taxonomy-eligible per objective CCM 6% 7% CCA 4% 57% WTR - - CE - 0% PPC - - BIO - - c) Share of operating expenses (OpEx) associated with EU Taxonomy eligible activities OpEx as defined by the Taxonomy Regulation includes Research and Development expenditure, maintenance and repair costs and non-capitalised lease expenses. The overall amount of the Clariane Group’s operating expenses meeting the definition set out in the taxonomy represented 2.8% (unchanged from 2023) of total operating expenses for 2024, i.e., €117 million out of total operating expenses of €4,148 million (versus €109 million out of €3,971 million in 2023). As in 2023, the Group has chosen to apply the materiality exemption allowed by Paragraph 1.1.3.2 of Appendix I of the Delegated Regulation of July 2021. Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 111 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"Economic activities 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)(c) Code(s)(a) OpEx Proportion of OpEx in 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity Minimum safeguards Proportion of Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) OpEx in 2023 Category enabling activity Category transitional activity Currency % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b) A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) OpEx of the environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Of which enabling Of which transitional A.2 Taxonomy-eligible activities but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) OpEx of Taxonomy- eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy- aligned activities) (A.2) 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% OpEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1+A.2) (A) 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx of Taxonomy- non-eligible activities (B) 0 0% TOTAL (A + B) 117.1 100% Key (a) - CCM for climate change mitigation; - CCA for climate change adaptation; - WTR for water and marine resources; - CE for circular economy; - PPC for pollution prevention and control; - BIO for biodiversity protection and ecosystems. (b) YES – Taxonomy-eligible activity and taxonomy-aligned in respect of the environmental objective; NO – Taxonomy-eligible activity but not taxonomy-aligned in respect of the environmental objective; N/EL – Not eligible: Taxonomy-non-eligible activity in respect of the environmental objective. (c) EL – Taxonomy-eligible activity in respect of the objective defined; N/EL – Taxonomy-non-eligible activity in respect of the objective defined. (d) For an activity to be reported in section A.1, all DNSH criteria and all minimum safeguards must be met. 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 112 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"Proportion of OpEx/total OpEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective Taxonomy-eligible per objective CCM 0% 0% CCA 0% 0% WTR 0% 0% CE 0% 0% PPC 0% 0% BIO 0% 0% NUCLEAR ENERGY AND FOSSIL GAS ACTIVITIES NUCLEAR ENERGY RELATED ACTIVITIES 1 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. NO 2 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. NO 3 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. NO FOSSIL GAS RELATED ACTIVITIES 4 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 5 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 6 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels. NO Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 113 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"2024 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ESRSE1 CLIMATE CHANGE MATERIAL MATTERS MAIN POLICIES AND ACTIONS CLIMATE CHANGE ENERGY MANAGEMENT Mitigation: carbon emissions reduction targets aligned with the Paris Agreement Environmental and energy policy Employee training and awareness-raising Adaptation: climatic hazard exposure analysis for the real estate portfolio Adaptation of operating processes and real estate portfolio and equipment transformation plan 720,697 xáǝژ of energy consumed 100% of sites subject to a climatic hazard exposure analysis 148.67 kWh/sq.m./year in energy intensity 29.32 kgCOפe ɀȷِȅِٖɵƺƏȸژ energy-related carbon intensity -25% Total GHG emissions reduction target for 2030 (Scopes 1, 2 & 3) vs 2021 249,394 tCOפe potential reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 614,358 tCOפe Scopes 1, 2 & 3 2024 carbon footprint 3.2.2 Climate change (ESRS E1) • Group carbon footprint (2018 data) • First carbon roadmap for the energy consumption of buildings 2019 • Update of the JȸȒɖȵ !ƏȸƫȒȇ IȒȒɎȵȸǣȇɎي ƳƏɎƏ ǔȒȸ 202ב ƏȇƳ 202ג • Implementation of a tool for measuring and managing the carbon footprint • Validation of short-term reduction targets by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), of גהۏ Ȓȇ 3ƬȒȵƺɀ 1 ۭ 2 ƏȇƳ 2זۏ Ȓȇ 7בۏ Ȓǔ 3ƬȒȵƺ ב between 2021 and 2031 • Development of the Group's transition ȵǼƏȇِ !ȸƺƏɎǣȒȇ Ȓǔ Ɏǝƺ !ǼǣȅƏɎƺ !ȒȅȅǣɎɎƺƺً to monitor action plans for climate change mitigation 2024 2023 • Adoption of ȵɖȸȵȒɀƺٮƳȸǣɮƺȇ ƬȒȅȵƏȇɵ status, including a Sustainability target in its Articles of Association • 0ȇƺȸǕɵ ɎƏȸǕƺɎɀي ב0ۏ ȸƺƳɖƬɎǣȒȇ in energy consumption in facilities in 2026 vs 2021 • zȒ ȅȒȸƺ ɎǝƏȇ ד0ۏ ǔȒɀɀǣǼ ǔɖƺǼ in the Group's energy mix by 2026 • Joining the Science Based Targets ǣȇǣɎǣƏɎǣɮƺ ٢3BTǣ٣ and submitting emission reduction targets aligned with the Paris Agreement for 2031 Update of the Group's carbon footprint (2021 data) 2022 !( ̈ ƬǼǣȅƏɎƺ ƬǝƏȇǕƺ ɀƬȒȸƺي ( !( ̈ ƬǼǣȅƏɎƺ ƬǝƏȇǕƺ ɀƬȒȸƺي ! áƏɎƺȸي ( !( ̈ ƬǼǣȅƏɎƺ ƬǝƏȇǕƺ ɀƬȒȸƺي B 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 114 3ɖɀɎƏǣȇƏƫǣǼǣɎɵ 3ɎƏɎƺȅƺȇɎ ƏȇƳ (ɖɎɵ Ȓǔ !Əȸƺ ̈ǼƏȇ Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"The Group’s 2024 carbon footprint referred to in section 3.2.2 was calculated based on actual data for the footprint linked to energy consumption, and based on extrapolations drawn from the Group’s 2023 carbon footprint and changes in business data for other items. The carbon footprint is an estimated at 77% using a market-based methodology and at 76% using a location-based methodology. Full details of the 2024 carbon footprint along with the methodology used to calculate estimates are disclosed in section 3.2.2.5. 3.2.2.1 Transition plan and inclusion of climate objectives in variable compensation and financing schemes (ESRS E1-1 and ESRS 2 GOV-3) Given the material impacts identified and presented in section 3.2.2.2, and in line with the actions implemented as part of its previous 2019-2023 CSR roadmap, Clariane has defined a transition plan setting out its main climate change mitigation actions. Implementing the transition plan is part of the Group’s commitment to improving its environmental impact, which is one of its corporate objectives as a mission-led company and one of the five pillars of its CSR strategy. The Clariane Group is committed to increasing the transparency of its climate publications. Driven by this aim, it is gradually building its transition plan for climate change mitigation. The structure of this plan is presented below, along with the data already available in this regard. These include a qualitative assessment of the investments and operating expenditure required to implement the transition plan, with detailed figures for 2024 and 2025. This transition plan will be supplemented in accordance with the ESRS regarding significant investments and operating expenses for the implementation of the action plans over the period 2026 to 2030. The Group is working on gradually improving the completeness and accuracy of its published data in order to align its reporting with regulatory requirements and industry best practice. The main items of the Group’s 2024 carbon footprint, accounting for 66% of emissions, are as follows: • Energy: the footprint relates to the energy consumed by the Group’s facilities for lighting, heating, ventilation, air conditioning and hot water, and for operating equipment. Initiatives to reduce the energy footprint are aimed at improving the energy efficiency of buildings and optimising energy use, as well as diversifying the energy sources used in order to increase the share of renewable energy in the Group’s energy mix. • Catering: the Group’s residential facilities are living spaces, so patients and residents eat their meals there. These meals are mainly cooked on site. The catering footprint is linked to the volume and type of food raw materials purchased, how these raw materials are grown and where they come from. Actions to reduce the food footprint focus on the design of menus, the primary objectives of which are to provide enjoyment and appropriate nutritional intake, and to reduce food waste. • Construction: new facilities and extensions to existing facilities generate a footprint relating to the resources used for materials and construction work, as well as to the use of the building over its lifetime. In 2025, the Group will work on more accurately determining the contribution made to the construction footprint and to reducing its impact through the choice of materials and construction methods, as well as the technical specifications of buildings and equipment. • Commuting: the Group employs more than 63,000 people (FTEs), the majority of whom work on site and therefore travel to and from work every day. This explains why commuting accounts for a significant share of the footprint – typically between 8% and 10%, depending on the year. The primary levers identified by the Group for reducing the related impacts are optimising journey distances, pooling journeys, supporting soft mobility and using low-carbon vehicles. Given the material nature of the Group’s indirect emissions (Scope 3 represents 80% of the 2024 carbon footprint) and its heavy reliance on collective decarbonisation levers requiring full or partial involvement of the Group’s business sector (83% of the levers according to the Shift Project’s “Decarbonising the Autonomy Sector” study), Clariane has focused on working towards a 2030 reduction target. Reduction targets beyond 2030 and for five-year periods up to 2050 will be set in the medium term on the basis of initial feedback from actions taken to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, particularly for Scope 3. To define its transition plan targets, the Group used Shared Socio-Economic Pathways SSP1-1.6 and 2.9 scenarios set out by the IPCC in its sixth assessment report for limiting global warming to well below 2°C by 2100. These targets have been calculated using the Absolute Contraction Approach in relation to the 2021 base year. Scenario 2026 vs 2021 reduction 2030 vs 2021 reduction 2031 vs 2021 reduction Total Clariane GHG emissions (Scopes 1, 2 & 3) SSP1-2.9 (WB 2°C) -15% -25% -28% Scopes 1 & 2 GHG emissions SSP1-1.6 (1.5°C) -27% -43% -46% Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 115 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"For 2025, investments planned in the budgets and identified as contributing to the Group’s energy transition, whether financed directly or by third parties (for example under energy efficiency contracts), are estimated at between €23 million and €31 million for the Group as a whole. 2024 2025 Sources of expenditure allocated to decarbonisation actions financed by the Group or third parties (€m) 18.7 23-31 Alignment of these sources of expenditure with the environmental taxonomy 0% 0% More than 12 of the Group’s FTEs are responsible for implementing the actions of the energy transition plan within different functions (management, technical, real estate, maintenance, processes and tools, etc.). Based on a qualitative assessment of material CapEx and OpEx linked to individual actions under the transition plan (see summary below), material CapEx and OpEx were identified by type of expenditure. GHG Protocol classification Name of category/ sub-category Description of decarbonisation leverl Material CapEx/OpEx related to the implementation of the transition plan Comments SCOPES 1 & 2 1-1 Direct emissions from stationary combustion sources 2-1 Indirect emissions from electricity consumption 2-2 Indirect emissions from consumption of steam, heating and cooling 3-3 Emissions from fuel- and energy- related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) Energy Increasing the share of renewable energies in the energy mix Yes An initial quantification was drawn up with the help of an energy consultancy. This will be fine-tuned as the technical studies progress, ahead of confirming the related financing. The Group’s preferred financing model is third-party financing: • Signing energy efficiency contracts with specialised companies, where guaranteed energy savings over a long period ensure the financing of the investment in these facilities and the maintenance of their performance. • Partnerships with property owners, which can contribute financially to the implementation of structural measures in facilities (insulation, replacing heating systems, etc.). • Signing Power Purchase Agreements (PPA), particularly covering on-site (on-site PPA) or virtual (vPPA) solar power production systems. • Third-party financing or purchase of assets for specific projects (installing LED systems in particular). • Grants and subsidies linked to energy savings (e.g., energy saving certificates in France). Reducing energy consumption volumes 1-2 Direct emissions from mobile combustion sources Fuel burned in company vehicles Electrifying company vehicles No as regards deployment of the fleet Yes as regards the installation of electric charging points at all facilities Implementation of an electrification strategy for company vehicles is already underway in France and Germany. Replacing and converting the fleet to electric vehicles has been evaluated on an identical cost basis. The gradual installation of electric charging points at all our facilities can represent a significant CapEx item. However, this can be smoothed out over several years and, depending on local regulations, may be eligible for subsidies. 1-4 Direct fugitive emissions Refrigerant fluids Using less emissive fluids No Guidelines for equipment replacement and recharging are provided to operating departments to encourage the use of less emissive fluids. Emissive fluids are gradually being withdrawn from the market as a result of regulations. Reducing the use and/or intensity of air conditioning No Awareness-raising initiatives are carried out for technical managers and guidelines are issued on air-conditioning levels in line with health regulations; compliance with these guidelines is monitored through existing building management systems. 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 120 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"GHG Protocol classification Name of category/ sub-category Description of decarbonisation leverl Material CapEx/OpEx related to the implementation of the transition plan Comments SCOPE 3 3-1 Purchased goods and services Purchases Selecting suppliers based on environmental impact and other criteria Potential additional costs A CSR criteria matrix including environmental impact criteria, to be used by buyers in calls for tender, was rolled out in 2024, together with training for buyers in the use of the tool. Selecting suppliers who meet higher environmental standards could lead to higher costs. Catering Introducing vegetarian meals Analysis pending Analysis to be carried out on the basis of pilot schemes run in France and Italy in which menus are changed in order to increase the proportion of food with lower emissions, while respecting the nutritional intake and tastes of residents and patients. Laundry Choosing linen that is produced and used with lower emissions Potential additional costs Criteria included in calls for tender by buyers on the basis of the CSR criteria matrix deployed in 2024. Supplier dialogue and contractual commitments to be secured. Selecting suppliers who meet higher environmental standards could lead to higher costs. Reducing the energy intensity of laundry operations No Supplier dialogue and contractual commitments to be secured for outsourced laundry operations (most operations), eco-efficiency of machines used and eco-friendly practices for laundry managed in-house. 3-2 Capital goods Buildings Reducing the impact of buildings through requirements and criteria in specifications (construction materials and methods, etc.) Analysis pending An analysis is planned for 2025 to identify and quantify the technical decarbonisation levers for buildings, together with an adaptation of the specifications applied by the Group for its new buildings. Furniture Extending the lifespan of furniture used No Analysis to be carried out on lifespans and replacement periods by type of furniture. Supplier selection to include or develop criteria on maintenance, reparability and quality of materials, based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024. Including eco-designed product references for furniture and medical equipment Potential additional costs Studies and referencing to be carried out by the interior architecture, medical and purchasing departments. Selection criteria used in calls for tender to be based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024, which includes eco-design criteria. Selecting suppliers who meet higher environmental standards could lead to higher costs. IT equipment Extending the lifespan of IT equipment No Analysis to be carried out on lifespans and replacement periods by type of IT equipment. Supplier selection to include or develop criteria on maintenance, reparability and obsolescence, based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024. Choosing IT equipment based on its carbon impact Potential additional costs IT supplier selection and referencing to include or develop environmental impact criteria, based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024. Selecting suppliers who meet higher environmental standards could lead to higher costs. Company vehicle fleet Choosing vehicles with lower emissions (more compact) No Criteria regarding the size of vehicles in the company fleet. 3-4 Upstream transportation and distribution Freight Optimising distances and pooling freight for deliveries to facilities No Operational guidelines to be distributed to facilities to group together orders from the same supplier; discussions with suppliers on their practices for optimising delivery distances. Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 121 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"GHG Protocol classification Name of category/ sub-category Description of decarbonisation leverl Material CapEx/OpEx related to the implementation of the transition plan Comments 3-5 Waste generated in operations Waste Reducing waste produced: use of plastic bottles, paper, packaging, biowaste, etc. No Continue to raise awareness and monitor waste reduction and sorting practices in facilities. Analysis of alternatives to single-use products to be carried out in the various businesses. Supplier selection to include and develop criteria regarding product packaging, based on the CSR criteria matrix rolled out for buyers in 2024. Preferring composting over methanisation of biowaste Potential additional costs Selection of biowaste collection service providers on the basis of the waste treatment methods applied. Potential additional costs would arise from the introduction of biowaste collection for facilities/ countries that do not yet have this system and from a change in treatment method if the current system involves methanisation. Redirecting some residual waste for composting No Continue to raise awareness and monitor waste reduction and sorting practices in facilities. Initiatives to be carried out in terms of the development of new waste channels. 3-6 Business travel Business travel Reducing business travel No Adapt travel policies to reduce the volume of business travel and ensure the use of low-carbon modes of transport wherever possible. 3-7 Commuting Commuting Encouraging the use of public transport Potential additional costs Generalise incentives to use public transport (such as partial reimbursement by the employer, as adopted in France, although this could generate potential additional costs). Develop initiatives to reduce the distance between home and work wherever possible. Encouraging car pooling No Development of offers and partnerships and acting as a liaison point in order to encourage employees to adopt car pooling using their personal or company vehicles to get to work. The environmental taxonomy framework does not allow the Group to assess all mitigation actions carried out and referred to in ESRS E1. This is because the Group’s core business is caring for those in need and most of its revenue is earned in exchange for personal services, care and medical treatment provided to people in vulnerable situations. Clariane primarily has a social purpose, and this can only be assessed under the social taxonomy, which has not yet been drawn up by the European authorities. To date, only the environmental taxonomy has been codified (EU Taxonomy Regulation 2020/852). Work to define a social taxonomy is still ongoing, and no timetable has been set as yet. As a result, the Group has not set a target for aligning its turnover (revenue), OpEx and CapEx with the environmental taxonomy. This is due to the fact that: • the text of the environmental taxonomy only allows for the recognition of revenue from property rentals and sales under Activity 12.1 “Residential care activities” related to the climate change adaptation objective. Accordingly, revenue from caring for residents and patients, the Group’s core business, is excluded; • the materiality exemption is applied to OpEx that meet the taxonomy definition as they are not material; • for the 2024 taxonomy reporting, only CapEx over the €0.8 million threshold was analysed, making it impossible to obtain an accurate picture of all eligible CapEx. The Group expects its CapEx alignment to increase going forward, in line with the internal work carried out on the granularity of analysis by type of CapEx, enabling in particular CapEx contributing to decarbonisation to be monitored and individual measures to be assessed from 2025 onwards. Work in progress on centralising data relating to the Group’s real estate portfolio – and in particular building specifications – will also facilitate alignment analysis. 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 122 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"3.2.2.2 Material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (ESRS 2 IRO-1 and SBM-3) Material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities are listed in ESRS 2 IRO-1 and SBM-3 and are summarised in the table below. The Group’s exposure to transition risks has been analysed and incorporated into the Group’s double materiality assessment. One transition risk, relating to the rise in energy costs linked to the volatility of raw material prices, was assessed as material. Material impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) Description Timeframe/ Scope Description (clarifications provided in addition to those presented in section 3.1.3.3 (ESRS 2 SBM-3)) CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Negative impact Impact on ecosystems and human health from carbon emissions generated by the Group’s operations and value chain. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • Details of carbon emissions related to the Group’s operations are provided in section 3.2.2.5. In all, Scope 3 accounts for 80% of the Group’s carbon footprint, with energy and catering the biggest emitters. • Carbon emissions contribute to climate change, which impacts the living conditions essential to human health, for example direct or indirect effects on temperatures, biodiversity and the water cycle. CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION Negative impact Difficulty maintaining the quality of care for residents and patients along with working conditions for employees in the event of extreme weather events. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • Depending on their scale, these events may affect business continuity or downgrade the level of care provided if facilities can no longer partly or fully operate. Operational processes designed to anticipate and manage such events are detailed in section 3.2.2.3.2. ENERGY MANAGEMENT Positive impact Reducing energy consumption volumes and moving towards low-carbon energy consumption for the Group’s activities. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • These actions aim to reduce the consumption of resources used by the Group for its business, the carbon emissions associated with this consumption and the Group’s dependence on fossil fuels. • The objectives and actions linked to this energy transition, which implies changes in terms of energy purchases, consumption tracking, equipment, operational processes and training, are detailed in section 3.2.2.3.1. Positive impact Energy management criteria applied to suppliers. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • The choice of suppliers and energy contracts contributes to achieving the objectives of decarbonising energy consumption, while the environmental criteria used to select suppliers of goods and services help to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint and therefore its impact. • Bringing suppliers on-board is essential if the Group is to achieve its climate mitigation objectives. Risk Rising energy costs due to volatile raw material prices. (ST) > (LT) All Group activities • Rising energy costs affect the Group’s management of direct operating expenses. • Reducing energy consumption volumes and securing supplies at costs negotiated through PPAs for example (see section 3.2.2.3.1), represent measures designed to reduce the Group’s exposure to this risk. Clariane — 2024 Universal Registration Document 123 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"
"3.2.2.3 Policies, actions, indicators and targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (ESRS E1-2, E1-3, E1-4) The Group’s commitment to reducing its carbon footprint by adapting its facilities and operational processes has been formalised in its environmental and energy policy stemming from the 2024-2028 CSR strategy. It represents a direct application of one of the five objectives underlying its corporate purpose, namely the sustainability and protection of the living environment of its communities. This policy applies to all the Group’s countries of operation and activities, and is set out in contracts between the Group and its commercial partners. The functions represented in the Group’s Climate Committee are specifically responsible for implementing the climate change mitigation and adaptation targets set out in this policy. Their implementation is monitored together with other sustainability matters by the Board of Directors’ Ethics, Quality and CSR Committee and by the CSR Steering Committee chaired by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer. The policy is implemented by Group and local management teams in the respective strategies of each functional community, and is based on their ownership of the targets. To involve its employees in its objectives of reducing its footprint in line with the Paris Agreement, the Group has set up awareness-raising and training initiatives aimed at developing the expertise of its governance bodies and functional communities in relation to climate change. The following actions were carried out in 2024: • providing training for the Board of Directors and General Management in planetary boundaries and new business models; • organising Climate Fresk workshops in each of the Group’s regional offices in France, and every month at Clariane’s head office (130 participants in the workshops and 10 people trained to become internal Climate Fresk facilitators) and dedicated awareness-raising sessions with the European Company Works Council; • launching dedicated online training modules (Clariane Sustainability School) for certain functional communities and CSR ambassadors; • including a dedicated module addressing these issues in the manager onboarding programme; • staging specific events during sustainable development week, with the organisation of a Climate Pitch, a webinar for sharing testimonies and initiatives at facility level, and themed events run by facilities in France, as well as a photo competition on climate change in facilities across all Group countries. For details of the plan to develop the sustainability expertise of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies, as well as the Group functional departments and the country functional and operational divisions, see section 3.1.2.1. 3.2.2.3.1 Climate change mitigation In terms of reducing its impact, the Group initially focused on emissions linked to its energy consumption (categories 1-1, 2-1, 2-2 and 3-3 of the GHG Protocol), representing decarbonisation levers in its transition plan, which it began to implement in 2021. The Group has set itself two targets to reduce the impact of its energy consumption by 2026: • reduce its total energy consumption by 30%, based on 2021 consumption volumes, by adapting its practices, equipment and buildings; • reduce the share of fossil fuels in its energy mix to less than 50%. These are intermediate targets that guarantee a reduction in the Group’s Scopes 1 and 2 carbon emissions exceeding that required by Clariane’s SBTi trajectory for Scopes 1 and 2. Progress is monitored each month, in particular using a centralised tool for consolidating energy consumption, in order to check that the targets set for reducing the energy footprint are being met. The operational actions and their impacts on reducing energy consumption and the associated greenhouse gas emissions have been identified and assessed from a technical and financial perspective. They have been included in Group- and country-level roadmaps for deployment in the short, medium and long term and are described below: Preventive and corrective maintenance: • new equipment and maintenance operations to reduce energy consumption: installation of thermostatic heads on radiators (controlled or uncontrolled), network balancing, flushing, etc. Regarding the replacement of equipment and the selection of local supply sources: • replacing heat production systems: • installing high-efficiency boilers, • installing heat pumps, • connecting to heating networks. Regarding thermal renovation: • in some facilities, large-scale energy refurbishment projects (e.g., exterior insulation, replacement of windows and doors) can be carried out in partnership with the site owner to finance the work. Regarding the use of low-carbon energy: • installing photovoltaic systems for low-carbon electricity generation; • purchasing renewable energy certificates in Spain (electricity) and the Netherlands (electricity) so that a proportion of the energy mix has a guarantee of origin. Performance monitoring and management: • conducting energy audits on some facilities; • installing ambient temperature sensors and LoRa (Long Range) data reporting systems, as was done on several hundred sites in France, Germany and Italy in 2024; 2024 Universal Registration Document — Clariane 124 Sustainability Statement and Duty of Care Plan Disclosures relating to environmental matters 3"

--- EUR_URD2024_MEL_ ---
"3.2 Environment 2024 GHG EMISSIONS 278 tCO2eq Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 4,818 tCO2eq Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 278 tCO2eq Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1) Upstream Purchased Electricity (Category 3) Commercial Air Travel (Category 6) Employee Commuting/Telework (Category 7) 46,990 tCO2eq Total location-based GHG emissions Other “FIT FOR 1.5”: EURONEXT’S CLIMATE COMMITMENT 2024 Achievements (vs 2023) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions Suppliers with SBTI targets on scopes 1&21 Renewable energy in total consumption 2024 Key actions n Use of energy efficient equipment in buildings and monitoring temperatures n Continuing implementing Euronext’s Sustainable travel programme per department n Use of renewable energy in buildings and data centres n Setting a supplier engagement programme n Training staff on climate-related topics Euronext is member of the Net Zero Financial Service Providers Alliance, which sits under the umbrella of the global coalition ‘Race to Zero’ SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Euronext has set a responsible and Sustainable Product Offering Policy and offers namely climate related financial products SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Green bonds and climate indices SUSTAINABLE SERVICES Advisory and training 74 Paris Aligned Benchmarks (PABs) 175 Attendees in ESG workshops organized by ELITE 3 Climate Transition Benchmarks (CTBs) 1,752 bonds issued under a green bond framework Empower Sustainable Finance 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 95 (1) This figure is is not included in the limited assurance. Scopes 1 & 2 5,096 tCO2eq Scope 3 41,893 tCO2eq 86% +10% -2% -25% -22%"
"3.2.1 EU Taxonomy disclosure 3.2.1.1 2024 Taxonomy disclosure Since 2021, the EU Taxonomy on Sustainable Economic Activities has applied to Euronext, requiring mandatory disclosures under Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation1. This regulation establishes a standardised classification system to identify environmentally sustainable economic activities. An activity is taxonomy-eligible if listed in the Taxonomy Delegated Acts, regardless of meeting technical screening criteria. It becomes taxonomy-aligned when it: ■Substantially contributes to one of six environmental objectives under the Technical Screening Criteria (TSC), which are: – Climate change mitigation – Climate change adaptation – Sustainable use of water and marine resources – Transition to a circular economy – Pollution prevention and control – Biodiversity and ecosystem protection ■Does no significant harm (DNSH) to other objectives. ■Complies with minimum social safeguards (MSS). The Technical Screening Criteria (TSC) set specific requirements for an activity’s contribution to sustainability goals. These are detailed in the following Delegated Acts : ■Climate Delegated Act2 – Covers criteria for climate objectives, i.e. climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation. ■Environmental Delegated Act3 – Covers non-climate environmental objectives, i.e. sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, transition to a circular economy, pollution prevention and control and protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. ■Complementary Climate Delegated Act4 – Includes nuclear and gas energy under strict conditions (not applicable to Euronext). Under Article 8, Euronext must disclose the extent to which its activities are taxonomy-eligible and aligned, reporting the proportion of: ■Turnover from products and services associated with sustainable economic activities. ■Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) related to sustainable activities. The taxonomy is primarily designed for industry-related activities, and Euronext does not expect to report significant amounts under this framework. For 2024, It was concluded that all of Euronext revenues are non-eligible and non-aligned. However, the company identified eligible CapEx and OpEx, but no alignment. All reportable figures are validated by comparing the invoice with the activity amounts reported avoiding double counting. For more details on these, as defined by the European Regulation5, please read the standard taxonomy reporting tables on section 3.5.3. of the Universal Registration Document. For information on revenues from nuclear and fossil gas- related activities, as defined by the European Regulation6, refer to section 3.5.4 of the Universal Registration Document. 2024 Disclosure Article 8 indicators Turnover CapEx Opex Eligible 0.00 % 13.71 % 41.89 % Aligned 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % Non Aligned 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % Non Eligible 100.00 % 86.29 % 58.11 % Total 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % 2023 Disclosure Article 8 indicators Turnover CapEx Opex Eligible 0.00 % 0.13 % 0.00 % Aligned 0.00 % 0.04 % 0.00 % Non Aligned 0.00 % 0.09 % 0.00 % Non Eligible 100.00 % 99.87 % 100.00 % Total 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % The variance between the reportable figures for 2023 and 2024 was influenced by enhanced maturity in reporting capabilities, resulting in improved identification of eligible activities for 2024. The most significant impact was observed in the recognition of leased assets as eligible on CapEx and data centres maintenance on OpEx. 3.2.1.1.1 Turnover In accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation, turnover is defined as the proportion of aligned economic activities determined by dividing the net turnover derived from products 3 Empower Sustainable Finance 96 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT (1) Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, supplemented by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 and the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. (2) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 of 4 June 2021 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing the technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which an economic activity qualifies as contributing substantially to climate change mitigation or climate change adaptation and for determining whether that economic activity causes no significant harm to any of the other environmental objectives. (3) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486 of 27 June 2023 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing the technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which an economic activity qualifies as contributing substantially to the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, to the transition to a circular economy, to pollution prevention and control, or to the protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems and for determining whether that economic activity causes no significant harm to any of the other environmental objectives and amending Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 as regards specific public disclosures for those economic activities. (4) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1214 of 9 March 2022 amending Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 as regards economic activities in certain energy sectors and Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 as regards specific public disclosures for those economic activities. (5) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 of 6 July 2021 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by specifying the content and presentation of information to be disclosed by undertakings subject to Articles 19a or 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning environmentally sustainable economic activities, and specifying the methodology to comply with that disclosure obligation. (6) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 of 6 July 2021 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by specifying the content and presentation of information to be disclosed by undertakings subject to Articles 19a or 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning environmentally sustainable economic activities, and specifying the methodology to comply with that disclosure obligation."
"or services, including intangibles, associated with Taxonomy- aligned economic activities (numerator), by the net total turnover (denominator) as defined in Article 2, point (5), of Directive 2013/34/EU1. The net total turnover International Accounting Standard (IAS) 1, paragraph 82 (a), as adopted by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008. For further details see section 8.1 ‘Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss’ of the Universal Registration Document. Similar to previous years, Euronext has reviewed the application of the EU Taxonomy Regulation to its activities, taking into account the list of economic activities outlined in the Climate and Environmental Delegated Acts. Euronext has concluded that it has no eligible or aligned turnover under the Taxonomy Regulation. This includes CCM 8.1 where it was assessed Euronext does not have eligible turnover. For a full list of Euronext's activities, please refer to section 7.1.3 of the Universal Registration Document on Sources of Revenue. 3.2.1.1.2 Operating Expenditure In compliance with the Disclosure Delegated Act, total OpEx is calculated by assessing all direct non-capitalised costs related to research and development, building renovation measures, short-term leases, maintenance and repair, as well as other direct expenditures necessary for the day-to-day servicing of property, plant, and equipment assets. This assessment is then compared with the economic activities defined in the various Annexes to the Climate and Environmental Delegated Acts. Euronext Operational Expenditures are related to assets and processes associated with Taxonomy eligible economic activities. In the previous year, due to the lack of clarity on OpEx denominator calculation, it was decided to use the same OpEx as the one in the financials. For 2024, with more clarity over methodology from taxonomy, it was calculated using only categories that are aligned with those from taxonomy regulation like: ■Software and hardware maintenance; ■Facilities services and repair. ■Buildings renovations. ■Short-term leases. There are no other operational expenditures related to day to day servicing items related to Property, Plant, and Equipment that are not identified in the categories above. In 2024 Euronext identified activities related to facilities and data centres maintenance that were able to be classified as eligible for OpEx. 3.2.1.1.3 Capital Expenditure Under the EU Taxonomy Regulation, the CapEx denominator is defined as the total capital expenditure reported in the financial statements, encompassing investments in property, plant, and equipment (PPE) in accordance with IAS 16, right-of- use assets under IFRS 16, and intangible assets as defined by IAS 38, excluding goodwill. This figure is presented without depreciation, amortization, remeasurement, or changes to fair value. (See the rows ""Additions"" and ""Acquisition of Subsidiaries"" in Chapter 8, Note 16, Table Property, Plant and Equipment; Note 17, Table Leases; and Note 18, Table Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in the Financial Statements). Euronext calculates the proportion of qualifying CapEx by comparing it with the economic activities defined in the various Annexes to the Climate and Environmental Delegated Acts. Investment expenses include all additions to tangible and intangible assets. Currently, Euronext does not have a CapEx investment plan in place. 3.2.1.2 2024 Taxonomy underlying analysis Euronext has identified and analysed the following economic activities in the Climate and Environmental Delegated Acts that could potentially give rise to aligned investment expenses: ■Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2) ■Installation, maintenance and repair of technologies for renewable energy technologies (CCM 7.6) ■Acquisition and ownership of buildings (CCM 7.7) ■Data processing, hosting, and related services (CCM 8.1) 3.2.1.2.1 Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2) Euronext is aware of the November 2024 Draft Commission Notice that clarifies purchase of output for CapEx and OpEx should be considered for all environmental objectives. Euronext acknowledges that some of its IT CapEx could be eligible when applying this interpretation, specifically within activity 1.2, ""Manufacture of Electrical and Electronic Equipment"", of the EU Taxonomy. Euronext will further assess these CapEx once the Draft Commission Notice is finalized in the future to determine their eligibility and alignment with relevant criteria and sustainability objectives. 3.2.1.2.2 Installation, maintenance and repair of technologies for renewable energy technologies (CCM 7.6) At the Euronext Dublin office, solar panels were installed to increase the use of renewable energy. This investment represented a cost of €37,000, related to Property, Plant, and Equipment. After reviewing this CapEx, the latter was considered eligible with the EU Taxonomy under the Climate Change Mitigation objective. 3.2.1.2.3 Acquisition and ownership of buildings (CCM 7.7) In 2024, Euronext recorded approximately €16.3 million in CapEx leases, related to right of use assets including acquisition of subsidiaries, for multiple office buildings (for more details see Note 17 on Leases in the Financial Statements). Following a detailed assessment, it determined that these leases met the eligibility criteria for the Climate Change Empower Sustainable Finance 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 97 (1) Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC Text with EEA relevance"
"Mitigation objective of the EU Taxonomy, specifically under Activity 7.7 (Acquisition and Ownership of Buildings). This conclusion was based on the commission notice (C/2024/6691), which explicitly states that leases can be considered eligible under the EU Taxonomy. However, due to insufficient information from the vendor, the Group was unable to assess compliance with the alignment criteria. 3.2.1.2.4 Data Processing, hosting, and related services (CCM 8.1) In 2024, Euronext recorded approximately €5.3 million in CapEx, related to Property, Plant, and Equipment, related to its data centres infrastructure (for more details see Note 16 on Property, Plant, and Equipment). Following a detailed assessment, it determined that these CapEx met the eligibility criteria for the Climate Change Mitigation objective of the EU Taxonomy, specifically under Activity 8.1 (Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services). 3.2.2 Climate Change Material topic Description Climate Change Impact on global warming through energy use and scope 3 GHG-emissions from the upstream and downstream supply chain (mostly purchase of goods and services, and business travel). Actual Negative Impact Impact on global warming through scope 1 - 2 GHG-emissions of own offices and data centres, taking into account use of (renewable) energy and energy efficiency measures. 3.2.2.1 Governance Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes (ESRS 2 GOV-3) Please refer to section 3.1.4.4. of the Universal Registration Document, which discusses the integration of sustainability- related performance in incentive schemes. Additionally, for more details on remuneration structure, refer to the Remuneration report on section 4.4 of the Universal Registration Document. 3.2.2.2 Strategy Between 2021 and 2024, under its ""Growth for Impact 2024"" strategic plan, Euronext focused on accelerating climate action—both within Euronext’s own operations and through its role in advancing sustainable finance across all its markets. This commitment also encompassed an ambitious 1.5° climate goal for Euronext, and included developing services and products that help businesses, partners, clients and the European economy in general to ensure the increase in global temperatures from pre-industrial times remains below the 1.5°C target, as set out in the Paris Agreement. For the next strategic cycle “Innovate for Growth 2027"" 2024-2027, Euronext has renewed its commitment to support its clients throughout their climate journey, and further develop efficient ESG products and advisory services. Additionally, Euronext committed to set science-based net zero targets by 2027 in its own operations. In this context, Euronext has joined the Net Zero Financial Service Providers Alliance, part of the global coalition ‘Race to Zero’. Euronext’s climate strategy is detailed in the company's Transition Plan, outlining the key measures Euronext is taking to align its activities with a sustainable future. Central to this strategy are Euronext's decarbonisation commitments, which guide its efforts to reduce emissions in line with global climate goals. To operationalise Euronext’s climate strategy, the company has established a robust internal framework which is outlined in the Environmental Policy. Furthermore, Euronext’s detailed action plan highlights the concrete steps Euronext has already implemented, ensuring accountability and progress as the Group transitions towards a more sustainable and resilient operational model. Undertaken actions in 2024 are detailed in section 3.2.2.3.2. of the Universal Registration Document 3.2.2.2.1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-1) Euronext disclosed in 2024 the latest version of its climate transition plan, demonstrating to capital markets and stakeholders that the company is committed to achieving a 1.5° pathway, and that its business model will remain relevant (i.e., profitable) in a net-zero carbon economy. This document has been approved by the Managing Board in September 2023 and can be found on Euronext's website. Any future amendments will be subject to the same approval process. Euronext's Climate Transition Plan outlines the company's transition toward a low-carbon economy, detailing its Fit 1.5 strategy, key actions, milestones, and ambitions. The Transition Plan also sheds light on Euronext's environmental governance framework. Euronext’s business model does not have locked-in emissions. Unlike industries reliant on physical infrastructure or production-based carbon outputs, the company’s operations focus on facilitating financial transactions and services. The infrastructure the Group uses, such as its buildings and data centres, has a relatively lower environmental footprint and offers greater flexibility for decarbonisation. Additionally, Euronext does not operate in a CapEx-intensive industry and, therefore, does not have a CapEx plan linked to its transition plan. However, Euronext may in the future have some Taxonomy-aligned CapEx and/or OpEx reflecting its efforts to greenify its buildings and IT infrastructure. 3 Empower Sustainable Finance 98 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT"
"ESRS E1 requires companies to disclose whether they are excluded from the EU Paris-aligned benchmarks, in accordance with the exclusion criteria stated in Article 12.1 (d) to (g) and 12.2 of the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (Climate Benchmark Standards Regulation). This regulation requires administrators of EU Paris-aligned benchmarks to exclude from those benchmarks the companies that derive revenues over specified thresholds from certain activities (e.g., coal-, oil- or natural gas-related activities, or high-GHG-intensity electricity generation) and the companies found or estimated to significantly harm one or more of the EU Taxonomy environmental objectives. Based on its activities, Euronext does not meet any of the exclusion criteria and therefore is not subject to any exclusion from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks. As part of its strategy to reduce its impact on Climate Change, Euronext has considered future technological developments in designing its transition plan. The Group’s approach encompasses a holistic view that integrates emerging trends such as for example, the transition towards green energy, the increasing emphasis on the “greenification” of data centres and the decarbonisation of its value chain. Transition towards green energy Euronext recognises the global shift towards renewable energy sources as a pivotal factor shaping the future landscape of GHG emissions. Euronext acknowledges the imperative to reduce reliance on fossil fuels and embrace sustainable alternatives in its operations. By aligning its strategies with the growing adoption of green energy solutions, Euronext anticipates a significant impact on its GHG emissions profile, with a reduction in its carbon footprint to transition towards a lower-carbon footprint. Greenification of data centres As a leading financial marketplace, Euronext understands the pivotal role of data centres in supporting its infrastructure and facilitating efficient operations. The company acknowledges the burgeoning trend towards the “greenification” of data centres, driven by both environmental concerns and regulatory imperatives. By embracing innovative technologies and sustainable practices in its data centre operations, the Group aims to minimise its environmental footprint while maximising operational efficiency. This entails investment in energy- efficient infrastructure, adoption of renewable energy sources, and implementation of best practices in data centre management. The migration to a sustainable data centre sets the standard for the industry and provides clients with concrete tools to improve their own carbon footprint. Decarbonisation of the value chain The Group simultaneously decided to decarbonise its upstream value chain by implementing a supplier engagement programme, ensuring to work exclusively with suppliers committed to a low-carbon economy and driven by the numerous science-based standards being developed to guide and benchmark efforts toward sustainability and emissions reductions. Currently, the Group has not yet quantified any decarbonisation measures, but plans to address this in the coming years. More information on Euronext's decarbonisation actions can be found below in section 3.2.2.3.2. of the Universal Registration Document. 3.2.2.2.2 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Euronext has long recognised climate change as a critical issue for its operations and activities. Moreover, the company has embedded climate change in its strategic plan since 2021, as outlined in section 3.2.2.2. of the Universal Registration Document. Following its 2024 double materiality assessment, climate change was confirmed by stakeholders as a material topic for Euronext. The company concluded that, without adequate mitigation actions, its activities could have detrimental effects on both society and the environment. Euronext acknowledges that human activities are the primary drivers of climate change, and failing to act promptly will result in catastrophic environmental and societal consequences. Euronext’s operations have an actual and negative impact on global warming through its activities. Through its operations, Euronext emits a certain amount of GHG annually, contributing to global warming and negatively affecting stakeholders across its value chain. This is driven by both scope 3 GHG emissions from its upstream and downstream supply chain - primarily through the purchase of goods, services, and business travel - and from its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions deriving from its own offices and data centres. Since 2018, Euronext has been calculating and disclosing its annual GHG emissions based with a detailed analysis of its value chain and business model. Euronext has direct control over Scope 1, Scope 2, and travel-related emissions and reports only on relevant and material Scope 3 categories. For instance, Euronext does not report on financed emissions (Category 15 of Scope 3) because its business model does not involve investment activities such as loans, equity investments, or underwriting. For a full list of scope 3 categories, see the scope of the carbon footprint described in section 3.2.2.4.1. of the Universal Registration Document. The company’s emissions occur in the following areas: ■Direct GHG emissions coming from the company’s own offices and data centres, resulting from energy consumption and operational inefficiencies. Despite efforts to improve energy efficiency and increase the use of renewable energy, these operations still contribute to environmental degradation through carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2 emissions). ■Indirect GHG emissions stemming from the company’s upstream and downstream supply chain activities, particularly through the purchase of goods and services and business travel. These areas represent significant contributors to the company’s carbon footprint (Scope 3 emissions). While Euronext's activities, particularly in the realm of data processing and storage, inherently involve energy use with potential environmental impacts, Euronext's data centre consolidation strategy, highlighted by the green core data centre in Bergamo, is a testament to its dedication to minimising this footprint. This state-of-the-art facility leverages renewable energy and advanced cooling technologies to reduce the exacerbation of climate change, which can affect ecosystems, communities, and global health. By proactively addressing these concerns, Euronext aims to curtail contributions to rising temperatures that lead to extreme weather events, biodiversity loss, and environmental Empower Sustainable Finance 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 99"
"3.2 Environment 2024 GHG EMISSIONS 278 tCO2eq Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 4,818 tCO2eq Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 278 tCO2eq Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1) Upstream Purchased Electricity (Category 3) Commercial Air Travel (Category 6) Employee Commuting/Telework (Category 7) 46,990 tCO2eq Total location-based GHG emissions Other “FIT FOR 1.5”: EURONEXT’S CLIMATE COMMITMENT 2024 Achievements (vs 2023) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions Suppliers with SBTI targets on scopes 1&21 Renewable energy in total consumption 2024 Key actions n Use of energy efficient equipment in buildings and monitoring temperatures n Continuing implementing Euronext’s Sustainable travel programme per department n Use of renewable energy in buildings and data centres n Setting a supplier engagement programme n Training staff on climate-related topics Euronext is member of the Net Zero Financial Service Providers Alliance, which sits under the umbrella of the global coalition ‘Race to Zero’ SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Euronext has set a responsible and Sustainable Product Offering Policy and offers namely climate related financial products SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Green bonds and climate indices SUSTAINABLE SERVICES Advisory and training 74 Paris Aligned Benchmarks (PABs) 175 Attendees in ESG workshops organized by ELITE 3 Climate Transition Benchmarks (CTBs) 1,752 bonds issued under a green bond framework Empower Sustainable Finance 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 95 (1) This figure is is not included in the limited assurance. Scopes 1 & 2 5,096 tCO2eq Scope 3 41,893 tCO2eq 86% +10% -2% -25% -22%"
"3.2.1 EU Taxonomy disclosure 3.2.1.1 2024 Taxonomy disclosure Since 2021, the EU Taxonomy on Sustainable Economic Activities has applied to Euronext, requiring mandatory disclosures under Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation1. This regulation establishes a standardised classification system to identify environmentally sustainable economic activities. An activity is taxonomy-eligible if listed in the Taxonomy Delegated Acts, regardless of meeting technical screening criteria. It becomes taxonomy-aligned when it: ■Substantially contributes to one of six environmental objectives under the Technical Screening Criteria (TSC), which are: – Climate change mitigation – Climate change adaptation – Sustainable use of water and marine resources – Transition to a circular economy – Pollution prevention and control – Biodiversity and ecosystem protection ■Does no significant harm (DNSH) to other objectives. ■Complies with minimum social safeguards (MSS). The Technical Screening Criteria (TSC) set specific requirements for an activity’s contribution to sustainability goals. These are detailed in the following Delegated Acts : ■Climate Delegated Act2 – Covers criteria for climate objectives, i.e. climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation. ■Environmental Delegated Act3 – Covers non-climate environmental objectives, i.e. sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, transition to a circular economy, pollution prevention and control and protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. ■Complementary Climate Delegated Act4 – Includes nuclear and gas energy under strict conditions (not applicable to Euronext). Under Article 8, Euronext must disclose the extent to which its activities are taxonomy-eligible and aligned, reporting the proportion of: ■Turnover from products and services associated with sustainable economic activities. ■Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) related to sustainable activities. The taxonomy is primarily designed for industry-related activities, and Euronext does not expect to report significant amounts under this framework. For 2024, It was concluded that all of Euronext revenues are non-eligible and non-aligned. However, the company identified eligible CapEx and OpEx, but no alignment. All reportable figures are validated by comparing the invoice with the activity amounts reported avoiding double counting. For more details on these, as defined by the European Regulation5, please read the standard taxonomy reporting tables on section 3.5.3. of the Universal Registration Document. For information on revenues from nuclear and fossil gas- related activities, as defined by the European Regulation6, refer to section 3.5.4 of the Universal Registration Document. 2024 Disclosure Article 8 indicators Turnover CapEx Opex Eligible 0.00 % 13.71 % 41.89 % Aligned 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % Non Aligned 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % Non Eligible 100.00 % 86.29 % 58.11 % Total 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % 2023 Disclosure Article 8 indicators Turnover CapEx Opex Eligible 0.00 % 0.13 % 0.00 % Aligned 0.00 % 0.04 % 0.00 % Non Aligned 0.00 % 0.09 % 0.00 % Non Eligible 100.00 % 99.87 % 100.00 % Total 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % The variance between the reportable figures for 2023 and 2024 was influenced by enhanced maturity in reporting capabilities, resulting in improved identification of eligible activities for 2024. The most significant impact was observed in the recognition of leased assets as eligible on CapEx and data centres maintenance on OpEx. 3.2.1.1.1 Turnover In accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation, turnover is defined as the proportion of aligned economic activities determined by dividing the net turnover derived from products 3 Empower Sustainable Finance 96 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT (1) Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, supplemented by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 and the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. (2) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 of 4 June 2021 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing the technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which an economic activity qualifies as contributing substantially to climate change mitigation or climate change adaptation and for determining whether that economic activity causes no significant harm to any of the other environmental objectives. (3) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486 of 27 June 2023 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing the technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which an economic activity qualifies as contributing substantially to the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, to the transition to a circular economy, to pollution prevention and control, or to the protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems and for determining whether that economic activity causes no significant harm to any of the other environmental objectives and amending Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 as regards specific public disclosures for those economic activities. (4) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1214 of 9 March 2022 amending Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 as regards economic activities in certain energy sectors and Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 as regards specific public disclosures for those economic activities. (5) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 of 6 July 2021 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by specifying the content and presentation of information to be disclosed by undertakings subject to Articles 19a or 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning environmentally sustainable economic activities, and specifying the methodology to comply with that disclosure obligation. (6) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 of 6 July 2021 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by specifying the content and presentation of information to be disclosed by undertakings subject to Articles 19a or 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning environmentally sustainable economic activities, and specifying the methodology to comply with that disclosure obligation."
"or services, including intangibles, associated with Taxonomy- aligned economic activities (numerator), by the net total turnover (denominator) as defined in Article 2, point (5), of Directive 2013/34/EU1. The net total turnover International Accounting Standard (IAS) 1, paragraph 82 (a), as adopted by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008. For further details see section 8.1 ‘Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss’ of the Universal Registration Document. Similar to previous years, Euronext has reviewed the application of the EU Taxonomy Regulation to its activities, taking into account the list of economic activities outlined in the Climate and Environmental Delegated Acts. Euronext has concluded that it has no eligible or aligned turnover under the Taxonomy Regulation. This includes CCM 8.1 where it was assessed Euronext does not have eligible turnover. For a full list of Euronext's activities, please refer to section 7.1.3 of the Universal Registration Document on Sources of Revenue. 3.2.1.1.2 Operating Expenditure In compliance with the Disclosure Delegated Act, total OpEx is calculated by assessing all direct non-capitalised costs related to research and development, building renovation measures, short-term leases, maintenance and repair, as well as other direct expenditures necessary for the day-to-day servicing of property, plant, and equipment assets. This assessment is then compared with the economic activities defined in the various Annexes to the Climate and Environmental Delegated Acts. Euronext Operational Expenditures are related to assets and processes associated with Taxonomy eligible economic activities. In the previous year, due to the lack of clarity on OpEx denominator calculation, it was decided to use the same OpEx as the one in the financials. For 2024, with more clarity over methodology from taxonomy, it was calculated using only categories that are aligned with those from taxonomy regulation like: ■Software and hardware maintenance; ■Facilities services and repair. ■Buildings renovations. ■Short-term leases. There are no other operational expenditures related to day to day servicing items related to Property, Plant, and Equipment that are not identified in the categories above. In 2024 Euronext identified activities related to facilities and data centres maintenance that were able to be classified as eligible for OpEx. 3.2.1.1.3 Capital Expenditure Under the EU Taxonomy Regulation, the CapEx denominator is defined as the total capital expenditure reported in the financial statements, encompassing investments in property, plant, and equipment (PPE) in accordance with IAS 16, right-of- use assets under IFRS 16, and intangible assets as defined by IAS 38, excluding goodwill. This figure is presented without depreciation, amortization, remeasurement, or changes to fair value. (See the rows ""Additions"" and ""Acquisition of Subsidiaries"" in Chapter 8, Note 16, Table Property, Plant and Equipment; Note 17, Table Leases; and Note 18, Table Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in the Financial Statements). Euronext calculates the proportion of qualifying CapEx by comparing it with the economic activities defined in the various Annexes to the Climate and Environmental Delegated Acts. Investment expenses include all additions to tangible and intangible assets. Currently, Euronext does not have a CapEx investment plan in place. 3.2.1.2 2024 Taxonomy underlying analysis Euronext has identified and analysed the following economic activities in the Climate and Environmental Delegated Acts that could potentially give rise to aligned investment expenses: ■Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2) ■Installation, maintenance and repair of technologies for renewable energy technologies (CCM 7.6) ■Acquisition and ownership of buildings (CCM 7.7) ■Data processing, hosting, and related services (CCM 8.1) 3.2.1.2.1 Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2) Euronext is aware of the November 2024 Draft Commission Notice that clarifies purchase of output for CapEx and OpEx should be considered for all environmental objectives. Euronext acknowledges that some of its IT CapEx could be eligible when applying this interpretation, specifically within activity 1.2, ""Manufacture of Electrical and Electronic Equipment"", of the EU Taxonomy. Euronext will further assess these CapEx once the Draft Commission Notice is finalized in the future to determine their eligibility and alignment with relevant criteria and sustainability objectives. 3.2.1.2.2 Installation, maintenance and repair of technologies for renewable energy technologies (CCM 7.6) At the Euronext Dublin office, solar panels were installed to increase the use of renewable energy. This investment represented a cost of €37,000, related to Property, Plant, and Equipment. After reviewing this CapEx, the latter was considered eligible with the EU Taxonomy under the Climate Change Mitigation objective. 3.2.1.2.3 Acquisition and ownership of buildings (CCM 7.7) In 2024, Euronext recorded approximately €16.3 million in CapEx leases, related to right of use assets including acquisition of subsidiaries, for multiple office buildings (for more details see Note 17 on Leases in the Financial Statements). Following a detailed assessment, it determined that these leases met the eligibility criteria for the Climate Change Empower Sustainable Finance 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 97 (1) Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC Text with EEA relevance"
"Mitigation objective of the EU Taxonomy, specifically under Activity 7.7 (Acquisition and Ownership of Buildings). This conclusion was based on the commission notice (C/2024/6691), which explicitly states that leases can be considered eligible under the EU Taxonomy. However, due to insufficient information from the vendor, the Group was unable to assess compliance with the alignment criteria. 3.2.1.2.4 Data Processing, hosting, and related services (CCM 8.1) In 2024, Euronext recorded approximately €5.3 million in CapEx, related to Property, Plant, and Equipment, related to its data centres infrastructure (for more details see Note 16 on Property, Plant, and Equipment). Following a detailed assessment, it determined that these CapEx met the eligibility criteria for the Climate Change Mitigation objective of the EU Taxonomy, specifically under Activity 8.1 (Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services). 3.2.2 Climate Change Material topic Description Climate Change Impact on global warming through energy use and scope 3 GHG-emissions from the upstream and downstream supply chain (mostly purchase of goods and services, and business travel). Actual Negative Impact Impact on global warming through scope 1 - 2 GHG-emissions of own offices and data centres, taking into account use of (renewable) energy and energy efficiency measures. 3.2.2.1 Governance Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes (ESRS 2 GOV-3) Please refer to section 3.1.4.4. of the Universal Registration Document, which discusses the integration of sustainability- related performance in incentive schemes. Additionally, for more details on remuneration structure, refer to the Remuneration report on section 4.4 of the Universal Registration Document. 3.2.2.2 Strategy Between 2021 and 2024, under its ""Growth for Impact 2024"" strategic plan, Euronext focused on accelerating climate action—both within Euronext’s own operations and through its role in advancing sustainable finance across all its markets. This commitment also encompassed an ambitious 1.5° climate goal for Euronext, and included developing services and products that help businesses, partners, clients and the European economy in general to ensure the increase in global temperatures from pre-industrial times remains below the 1.5°C target, as set out in the Paris Agreement. For the next strategic cycle “Innovate for Growth 2027"" 2024-2027, Euronext has renewed its commitment to support its clients throughout their climate journey, and further develop efficient ESG products and advisory services. Additionally, Euronext committed to set science-based net zero targets by 2027 in its own operations. In this context, Euronext has joined the Net Zero Financial Service Providers Alliance, part of the global coalition ‘Race to Zero’. Euronext’s climate strategy is detailed in the company's Transition Plan, outlining the key measures Euronext is taking to align its activities with a sustainable future. Central to this strategy are Euronext's decarbonisation commitments, which guide its efforts to reduce emissions in line with global climate goals. To operationalise Euronext’s climate strategy, the company has established a robust internal framework which is outlined in the Environmental Policy. Furthermore, Euronext’s detailed action plan highlights the concrete steps Euronext has already implemented, ensuring accountability and progress as the Group transitions towards a more sustainable and resilient operational model. Undertaken actions in 2024 are detailed in section 3.2.2.3.2. of the Universal Registration Document 3.2.2.2.1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-1) Euronext disclosed in 2024 the latest version of its climate transition plan, demonstrating to capital markets and stakeholders that the company is committed to achieving a 1.5° pathway, and that its business model will remain relevant (i.e., profitable) in a net-zero carbon economy. This document has been approved by the Managing Board in September 2023 and can be found on Euronext's website. Any future amendments will be subject to the same approval process. Euronext's Climate Transition Plan outlines the company's transition toward a low-carbon economy, detailing its Fit 1.5 strategy, key actions, milestones, and ambitions. The Transition Plan also sheds light on Euronext's environmental governance framework. Euronext’s business model does not have locked-in emissions. Unlike industries reliant on physical infrastructure or production-based carbon outputs, the company’s operations focus on facilitating financial transactions and services. The infrastructure the Group uses, such as its buildings and data centres, has a relatively lower environmental footprint and offers greater flexibility for decarbonisation. Additionally, Euronext does not operate in a CapEx-intensive industry and, therefore, does not have a CapEx plan linked to its transition plan. However, Euronext may in the future have some Taxonomy-aligned CapEx and/or OpEx reflecting its efforts to greenify its buildings and IT infrastructure. 3 Empower Sustainable Finance 98 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT"
"ESRS E1 requires companies to disclose whether they are excluded from the EU Paris-aligned benchmarks, in accordance with the exclusion criteria stated in Article 12.1 (d) to (g) and 12.2 of the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (Climate Benchmark Standards Regulation). This regulation requires administrators of EU Paris-aligned benchmarks to exclude from those benchmarks the companies that derive revenues over specified thresholds from certain activities (e.g., coal-, oil- or natural gas-related activities, or high-GHG-intensity electricity generation) and the companies found or estimated to significantly harm one or more of the EU Taxonomy environmental objectives. Based on its activities, Euronext does not meet any of the exclusion criteria and therefore is not subject to any exclusion from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks. As part of its strategy to reduce its impact on Climate Change, Euronext has considered future technological developments in designing its transition plan. The Group’s approach encompasses a holistic view that integrates emerging trends such as for example, the transition towards green energy, the increasing emphasis on the “greenification” of data centres and the decarbonisation of its value chain. Transition towards green energy Euronext recognises the global shift towards renewable energy sources as a pivotal factor shaping the future landscape of GHG emissions. Euronext acknowledges the imperative to reduce reliance on fossil fuels and embrace sustainable alternatives in its operations. By aligning its strategies with the growing adoption of green energy solutions, Euronext anticipates a significant impact on its GHG emissions profile, with a reduction in its carbon footprint to transition towards a lower-carbon footprint. Greenification of data centres As a leading financial marketplace, Euronext understands the pivotal role of data centres in supporting its infrastructure and facilitating efficient operations. The company acknowledges the burgeoning trend towards the “greenification” of data centres, driven by both environmental concerns and regulatory imperatives. By embracing innovative technologies and sustainable practices in its data centre operations, the Group aims to minimise its environmental footprint while maximising operational efficiency. This entails investment in energy- efficient infrastructure, adoption of renewable energy sources, and implementation of best practices in data centre management. The migration to a sustainable data centre sets the standard for the industry and provides clients with concrete tools to improve their own carbon footprint. Decarbonisation of the value chain The Group simultaneously decided to decarbonise its upstream value chain by implementing a supplier engagement programme, ensuring to work exclusively with suppliers committed to a low-carbon economy and driven by the numerous science-based standards being developed to guide and benchmark efforts toward sustainability and emissions reductions. Currently, the Group has not yet quantified any decarbonisation measures, but plans to address this in the coming years. More information on Euronext's decarbonisation actions can be found below in section 3.2.2.3.2. of the Universal Registration Document. 3.2.2.2.2 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (ESRS 2 SBM-3) Euronext has long recognised climate change as a critical issue for its operations and activities. Moreover, the company has embedded climate change in its strategic plan since 2021, as outlined in section 3.2.2.2. of the Universal Registration Document. Following its 2024 double materiality assessment, climate change was confirmed by stakeholders as a material topic for Euronext. The company concluded that, without adequate mitigation actions, its activities could have detrimental effects on both society and the environment. Euronext acknowledges that human activities are the primary drivers of climate change, and failing to act promptly will result in catastrophic environmental and societal consequences. Euronext’s operations have an actual and negative impact on global warming through its activities. Through its operations, Euronext emits a certain amount of GHG annually, contributing to global warming and negatively affecting stakeholders across its value chain. This is driven by both scope 3 GHG emissions from its upstream and downstream supply chain - primarily through the purchase of goods, services, and business travel - and from its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions deriving from its own offices and data centres. Since 2018, Euronext has been calculating and disclosing its annual GHG emissions based with a detailed analysis of its value chain and business model. Euronext has direct control over Scope 1, Scope 2, and travel-related emissions and reports only on relevant and material Scope 3 categories. For instance, Euronext does not report on financed emissions (Category 15 of Scope 3) because its business model does not involve investment activities such as loans, equity investments, or underwriting. For a full list of scope 3 categories, see the scope of the carbon footprint described in section 3.2.2.4.1. of the Universal Registration Document. The company’s emissions occur in the following areas: ■Direct GHG emissions coming from the company’s own offices and data centres, resulting from energy consumption and operational inefficiencies. Despite efforts to improve energy efficiency and increase the use of renewable energy, these operations still contribute to environmental degradation through carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2 emissions). ■Indirect GHG emissions stemming from the company’s upstream and downstream supply chain activities, particularly through the purchase of goods and services and business travel. These areas represent significant contributors to the company’s carbon footprint (Scope 3 emissions). While Euronext's activities, particularly in the realm of data processing and storage, inherently involve energy use with potential environmental impacts, Euronext's data centre consolidation strategy, highlighted by the green core data centre in Bergamo, is a testament to its dedication to minimising this footprint. This state-of-the-art facility leverages renewable energy and advanced cooling technologies to reduce the exacerbation of climate change, which can affect ecosystems, communities, and global health. By proactively addressing these concerns, Euronext aims to curtail contributions to rising temperatures that lead to extreme weather events, biodiversity loss, and environmental Empower Sustainable Finance 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 99"
"instability, thereby safeguarding the well-being of people and the planet we serve. To achieve its goals, Euronext has developed a comprehensive roadmap focused on several key actions available in section 3.2.2.3.2. of the Universal Registration Document. Additional actions will be defined in the coming year as Euronext continues to decarbonize its operations, with the goal of achieving net zero emissions by 2050 at the latest. Location in the value chain Main impact Location in the value chain Upstream Own operations Downstream Impact on global warming through energy use and scope 3 GHG-emissions from the upstream and downstream supply chain X X X Impact on global warming through scope 1 - 2 GHG- emissions of own offices and data centres X Euronext has also put in place a dedicated governance to facilitate the implementation and monitor the actions aimed at mitigating its climate impacts on society. For more information, please refer to section 3.1.4. of the Universal Registration Document on Sustainable Governance . The reasonably expected time horizons of the impacts Euronext's expected time horizons of the climate impacts are as follows: ■Short term (< 1 year): Euronext has an annual decarbonisation action plan to mitigate potential negative impacts; ■Medium term (1 to 3 years): this timeframe aligns with the development of the strategic plan, supported by a tailored climate strategy; ■Long term (> 3 years): Euronext could employ long and very long term-time horizon in order to analyse potential impacts of climate change in alignment with best practices, which often prescribe a time horizon beyond 10 years up to 2050. Main impact Expected time horizon Short term Medium term (Very) Long term Impact on global warming through energy use and Scope 3 GHG-emissions from the upstream and downstream supply chain X X X Impact on global warming through Scope 1 - 2 GHG- emissions of own offices and data centres X X X 3.2.2.3 Impact, risk and opportunity management (ESRS 2 IRO-1) Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities When identifying material impacts, risks, and opportunities related to climate change, Euronext follows a comprehensive process that takes into account various relevant criteria. This includes the geographic scope of Euronext’s activities, which are primarily within Europe. Additionally, Euronext evaluates the nature of its sector of activities - financial services - which differs significantly from other more impacting sectors like manufacturing. Consequently, issues such as supplier management, critical in manufacturing due to its complex supply chains, are less relevant to Euronext, where supply chains do not involve physical goods production. The detailed criteria and processes used to identify these material impacts are disclosed in section 3.1.3.1 of the Universal Registration Document. This comprehensive approach ensures that all relevant factors influencing business conduct matters are thoroughly evaluated to determine materiality for Euronext. 3.2.2.3.1 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (E1-2) Euronext's Environmental policy outlines the Group’s key commitments and actions to address identified impacts linked to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation, including energy efficiency and renewable energy deployment topics. The document can be found on Euronext's website. The Environmental Policy applies comprehensively across all of Euronext's activities and operations in all geographies where it operates, extending to its employees. The Group Head of ESG & Sustainable Finance is responsible for overseeing Euronext’s Environmental Policy, which has been approved by the Managing Board. For more details on the actions covered by Euronext's Environmental Policy, see section 3.2.2.3.2. of the Universal Registration Document. 3.2.2.3.2 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (E1-3) To reduce its carbon footprint, Euronext has developed a comprehensive action plan and a dedicated governance has been put in place to mobilise internal actors and to facilitate the implementation of an integrated approach. Euronext's Environmental governance, outlined in the environmental policy, encompasses all pertinent departments, including IT, Facilities, Procurement, ESG, Risk, and Finance, as well as other internal stakeholders. Regular project committee meetings are held, such as for the Suppliers Engagement Programme, which is supported by a dedicated working group that convenes regularly to monitor project progress and determine subsequent actions. Additionally, a regular Steering Committee meeting is conducted, involving key business decision-makers when critical decisions are required. For more information on the governance put in place, see section 3.1.4 of the Universal Registration Document and the Sustainability Policy available on the Euronext's website. 3 Empower Sustainable Finance 100 2024 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT"

--- 2.2 BoD Report 2024 EN -14.03.2025_FINAL ---
"103 SBM 3- 48 f SBM 3- 19 b highly exposed to climate change impacts, such as agriculture and real estate, may result in fluctuations in cash flow and potential provisioning for non-performing loans. Long-term Financial Effects: In the long term, BRD Group anticipates a good financial performance driven by the successful integration of sustainability principles into its core business model. BRD Group expects to benefit from regulatory stability, reduced risk exposure and long-term relationships with clients adopting green business models. Capital expenditures in digitalization and sustainable finance solutions will support revenue growth and operational efficiency. Furthermore, BRD Group's strategic focus on financial inclusion and access to essential services, such as healthcare and housing, will expand its market reach and drive long-term profitability. The transition to a greener economy is expected to provide resilience against economic downturns and climate-related financial risks. To support its sustainability strategy, BRD Group plans to allocate capital towards: ● Expanding its portfolio of sustainable finance, including green loans and ESG- compliant financial products26. ● Upgrading its physical infrastructure to meet energy efficiency targets. ● Investing in digitalization to enhance transparency and accessibility of financial services. To implement its strategic initiatives, BRD Group plans to secure funding through: ● Continuous focus on stable retail deposits. ● Retained earnings reinvestment to support sustainable growth initiatives. ● Strategic partnerships with development banks and international financial institutions. ● Accessing Government programs and incentives related to climate action and energy efficiency. Resilience of the Strategy BRD Group, in collaboration with SG, monitors the resilience of its strategy and business model to material impacts and risks and how to capitalize on material opportunities. Central to the monitoring process is undertaking a ""Business Environment Scan"" (BES), which has been conducted on an annual basis since 2022. The annual BES is undertaken to enable Management to obtain a comprehensive understanding of the material Climate and Environmental (C&E) risks that may impact the organization over a range of time horizons from the short- to long-term. The BES process helps BRD Group identify: • Threats to the business model that arise from Climate Change and Environmental risks. • Business opportunities from the economic transformation, client transitions, and adaptive measures to mitigate climate - related physical risks. BRD Group undertakes the BES to obtain a high-level understanding of vulnerabilities, potential threats, and opportunities that may impact its business over the short- to long- term time horizons. Using these insights, BRD Group then undertakes further analysis 26 ESG financial product, namely a product designed in accordance with ESG Regulatory requirements and BRD Group’s commitments"
"104 as needed, such as with the risk materiality assessment in order to obtain more granular data and in-depth understanding of its material impacts risks and opportunities. As part of BES, BRD Group analyses a wide range of sources of evidence including global geo-political and macro-trends, existent and upcoming regulatory requirements, stakeholder feedback and peer analysis. BRD Group also considers the impacts to its business from physical events, driven by climate and other environmental change. By monitoring and assessing a range of evidence in these areas, BRD Group can take informed decisions and strategic action to support it moving towards becoming a net- zero organization. The outcomes of BES provide BRD Group with detailed information that help it decide where further analysis is required or should be prioritized. For example: • Identified threats (if deemed relevant) are further evaluated in the risk materiality assessment. • Identified opportunities (if deemed relevant) are considered in business strategy and business planning. These outcomes help inform the BRD Group’s strategy and its decarbonization process. The BES is conducted across all BRD Group’s operations which help provide insights across geographies, sectors and products that the Group should prioritize for action. For example, following its most recent BES in 2024, BRD Group created an action plan that it has already started to implement, such as taking actions to start exiting from highly polluting businesses and shifting financing towards green and sustainable activities for Corporates. Future initiatives are under discussion at BRD Group level, to prioritize other actions on short, medium and long term, based on the elements revealed by the Climate and Environmental analysis."
"105 8.2. Environmental Information Climate Change This chapter includes details on the identified impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) related to climate change, as well as the corresponding policies, actions and targets. Furthermore, BRD Group’s overview on the policies, measures and targets is also presented. Strategy E1-1-17 Transition Plan BRD Group acknowledges the importance of having a transition plan to align with climate goals and support the sustainability transition. While BRD Group does not currently have a formal transition plan in place, it is committed to developing and adopting one within its report for 2027. This timeline reflects the complexity and scope of the transition process, ensuring that the plan will be comprehensive, actionable and aligned with both regulatory requirements and the broader strategic objectives of SG. BRD Group is closely aligning its sustainability initiatives with the overarching strategy of SG. SG has established sustainability goals/targets aligned with the goals of the Paris Agreement and BRD Group is working to ensure compliance with SG’s commitments, including the Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) targets and sector-specific decarbonization pathways. Developing a transition plan that is fully integrated into the Group’s sustainability objectives requires time and coordination. Moreover, the evolving regulatory landscape, particularly under CSRD, requires BRD Group to carefully assess its reporting obligations and integrate sustainability considerations across all business areas. The development of a transition plan is being approached with diligence to meet these evolving requirements effectively. BRD Group is not excluded from the Paris Agreement Benchmarks. Although a formal transition plan is not yet available, BRD Group is actively engaged in sustainability initiatives that contribute to the transition process. These include: - Supporting corporate clients in their sustainability transition through financing solutions such as Sustainability-Linked Loans (SLLs) and Project Investment Financing (SPIF), focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. - Expanding green financing for retail clients by offering green loans under EU Invest sustainability support schemes and collaborating with energy efficiency solution providers. - Increasing the share of green financing in BRD Sogelease to support industries such as transport decarbonization and circular economy transitions. - Partnering with institutions such as IFC, EIB (through EIF), and EU funds programs to implement sustainability-linked projects. BRD Group is conducting internal assessments and stakeholder engagements to evaluate the readiness of its portfolios for transition. This includes:"
"106 SBM 3- 18 SBM 3- 19 - Assessing the carbon intensity of its financed sectors and developing strategies to align them with NZBA commitments. - Collaborating with SG on sector-specific origination guidelines for high-emission industries. - Conducting internal capacity-building initiatives and investing in digital tools to enhance ESG data management and reporting capabilities. To conclude, BRD Group remains committed to adopting a robust transition plan by 2027 report publication. The focus in the next two years will be on: - Continuing engagement with SG to ensure alignment with its transition strategy. - Strengthening partnerships with clients and stakeholders to support their transition journeys and gradually increasing the share of sustainable finance in the overall portfolio. - Designing and implementing internal governance frameworks to oversee the development and implementation of the transition plan. Climate-related Risks BRD Group has identified different material climate-related risks that encompass both physical risks and transition risks, reflecting the multifaceted challenges posed by climate change. For climate change adaptation, the risks are primarily climate-related physical risks, as detailed in the previous Chapter General Disclosures, Section Double Materiality Assessment Process. For climate change mitigation, the risks are primarily climate-related transition risks. These arise from the challenges of aligning with stricter environmental commitments, market evolution towards sustainability and regulatory developments, as detailed in the previous Chapter General Disclosures, Section Double Materiality Assessment Process. BRD Group’s Strategy Resilience to Climate Change BRD Group recognizes the importance of assessing the resilience of its strategy and business model in relation to climate change. While BRD Group does not currently perform a formal climate scenario analysis or stress test to evaluate the impact of climate change on its strategy, it conducts multiple recurring assessments to identify material climate-related risks and their potential effects. The DMA, conducted annually, provides insights into both physical and transition risks. Additionally, the BES exercise, performed annually, examines climate-related impacts on BRD’s key business segments, including Corporate, Retail, Sovereign Bonds, BRD Asset Management and BRD Sogelease. BRD Group also conducts an annual portfolio assessment of small enterprises with a turnover below 7.5 million EUR to evaluate their exposure to climate-related risks. Furthermore, the Industry Climate Vulnerability Indicators (ICVI) and Corporate Climate Vulnerability Indicators (CCVI) offer insights into transition risks by assessing sectoral vulnerabilities and corporate adaptation strategies. These analyses highlight key physical risks, such as disruptions caused by extreme weather events in industries like agriculture and construction, and transition risks, including regulatory changes, increased operational costs, and shifting market demands for sustainable products. For further information"
"107 please refer to previous Chapter General Disclosures, Section Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities. Impacts, risks and opportunities management E1-2 E1-2-25 MDR-P- 65 a MDR-P- 65 b Policies Related to Climate Change This section presents the policies adopted by BRD Group to manage the material IROs related to climate change, as identified during the Double Materiality Analysis. These policies are designed to ensure an effective and structured approach to climate change material IROs management and compliance with regulatory requirements. SG Environmental and Social (E&S) General Principles The SG E&S General Principles present the E&S framework applicable to the SG Group’s activities, including BRD Group, to manage environmental and social impacts arising from the products and services it delivers. The SG E&S General Principles aim to align the SG Group's activities with Sustainable Development Goals by mitigating negative impacts and enhancing positive contributions to environmental and social well-being. The key objectives include promoting responsible and innovative financial solutions, managing E&S risks linked to the SG Group's products and services, ensuring compliance with applicable laws, treaties and conventions, engaging with stakeholders to drive sustainability efforts. The principles address material environmental and social risks and opportunities through structured monitoring mechanisms, such as integrating E&S considerations into decision-making processes, implementing risk management frameworks, and conducting regular reporting via public documents like the Duty of Care Plan and the Extra-Financial Performance Statement. This policy covers all the climate change related to material IROs identified during the double materiality analysis, therefore addressing climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency and renewable energy deployment. No other areas are explicitly addressed by this policy. The SG E&S General Principles are updated in line with regulatory, scientific or societal developments, observed best practices and the SG Group’s strategy. The SG E&S General Principles apply to:"
"202 List of disclosure requirements Page ESRS S1 Own workforce ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 145-149 S1-1 Policies related to own workforce 149-153 S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workforce and workers’ representatives about impacts 154-155 S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns 155-156 S1-4 Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 156-162 S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 162-163 S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 163-164 S1-7 Characteristics of non-employees in the undertaking’s own workforce 165 S1-8 Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 165 S1-9 Diversity metrics 165-166 S1-10 Adequate wages 166 S1-13 Training and skills development metrics 166-167 S1-14 Health and safety metrics 167-168 S1-16 Remuneration metrics (pay gap and total remuneration) 168-169 S1-17 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts 169 ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 170-171 S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users 171-176 S4-2 Processes for engaging with consumers and end-users about impacts 176-177 S4-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns 178-179 S4-4 Taking action on material impacts on consumers and end- users, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing 179-189"
"203 ESRS G1 Business conduct G1-GOV-1-5 The role of the administrative, supervisory and management bodies 70-71 G1-1 Business conduct policies and corporate culture 192-193,196, 197- 198 G1-3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 192-198 Annex 2 - List of datapoints in cross-cutting and topical standards that derive from other EU legislation Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Pages ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d) x x 72 ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e) x 72 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30 x 72-73 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i x x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii x x Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv x Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 14 x 105 ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) x x 105 ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34 x x x 123-126 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 x Not material material opportunities related to consumers and end-users, and effectiveness of those actions S4-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 190"
"204 Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Pages ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37 x 127-128 ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors paragraphs 40 to 43 x Not material ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 44 x x x 128-129 ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 55 x x x 138 ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 56 x Not material ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 x Not material (phase-in) ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a) ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c) x Not material (phase-in) ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy- efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c) x Not material (phase-in) ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities paragraph 69 x Not material (phase-in) ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 x Not material (phase-in) ESRS E3-1 Water and marine resources paragraph 9 x Not material ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 x Not material ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 x Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) x Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m 3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 x Not material ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i x Not material ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) x Not material ESRS 2- SBM 3 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) x Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24 (b) x Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) x Not material ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) x Not material"
"205 Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Pages ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) x Not material ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 x Not material ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labour paragraph 14 (f) x 148 ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g) x 148 ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 20 x 152-153 ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21 x 152-153 ESRS S1-1 processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 22 x Not material ESRS S1-1 workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 23 x 151 ESRS S1-3 grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c) x 155-156 ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work-related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c) x x 167-168 ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) x 167-168 ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a) x x 168-169 ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b) x 168-169 ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a) x 169 ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD Guidelines paragraph 104 (a) x x 169 ESRS 2- SBM3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain paragraph 11 (b) x Not material ESRS S2-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 17 x Not material ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 18 x Not material ESRS S2-1Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines paragraph 19 x x Not material ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 19 x Not material"
"206 Disclosure Requirement and related datapoint SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Pages ESRS S2-4 Human rights issues and incidents connected to its upstream and downstream value chain paragraph 36 x Not material ESRS S3-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 16 x Not material ESRS S3-1 non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights, ILO principles or OECD guidelines paragraph 17 x x Not material ESRS S3-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 36 x Not material ESRS S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users paragraph 16 x 176 ESRS S4-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD guidelines paragraph 17 x x 176 ESRS S4-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 35 x Not material ESRS G1-1 United Nations Convention against Corruption paragraph 10 (b) x 196 ESRS G1-1 Protection of whistle- blowers paragraph 10 (d) x 197 ESRS G1-4 Fines for violation of anti- corruption and anti-bribery laws paragraph 24 (a) x x Not material ESRS G1-4 Standards of anti- corruption and anti- bribery paragraph 24 (b) x Not material Annex 3 - Abbreviations ANSPDCP - National Supervisory Authority for Personal Data Protection ASF – Financial Supervisory Authority BES - Business Environment Scan BoD -Board of Directors CCVI – Climate Change Vulnerability Index CEO - Chief Executive Officer CISO- Chief Information Security Officer/ CIO CSR - Corporate Social Responsibility CSRD - Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive DE&I - Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion DAF – Antifraud Direction DMA- Double Materiality Assessment DPIA - Data Protection Impact Assessment DPO - Data Protection Officer EC- Executive Committee EFRAG - European Financial Reporting Advisory Group EIB - European Investment Bank EIF - European Investment Fund E&S – Environmental & Social ESG – Environmental, Social and Governance ESPIF - Social Environment and Positive Impact Financing ESRS - European Sustainability Reporting Standards ETF – Exchange Traded Fund GAR – Green Asset Ratio GDPR - General Data Protection Regulation GHG – Green House Gas ICT - Information and Communication Technology ISS- Information System Security ICVI - Industry Climate Vulnerability Indicators ICMA - International Capital Market Association IFC - International Finance Corporation (IFC) IFRS- International Financial Reporting Standards IROs Impacts, Risks and Opportunities KPI Key Performance Indicators LMA - Loan Market Association NZBA - Net-Zero Banking Alliance PI – Private Individuals RCVM - Retail Customers Value Management SFDR Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation SLL – Sustainable Linked Loans SME- Small and Medium Enterprises SPIF – Sustainable, Positive Impact Financing SG - Societe Generale"
"207 Annex 4 – Incorporated by reference ESRS Disclosures/Data point Requirement Location GOV-1-21-a (a) the number of executive and non-executive members Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. GOV 1-21-c The undertaking shall disclose the following information about the composition and diversity of the members of the undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies: (c) experience relevant to the sectors, products and geographic locations of the undertaking. Chapter 2 Corporate Governance of the current Annual Board of Directors’ Report 2024. SBM-1-40-a Description of: i. significant groups of products and/or services offered, including changes in the reporting period (new/removed products and/or services) Chapter 4. Group activity and results of the current Annual Board of Directors Report 2024 E1-2 (MDR-P 65 b) Policies related to Climate Change - A description of the scope of the policy, or of its exclusions, in terms of activities, upstream and/or downstream value chain, geographies and if relevant, affected stakeholder groups SG E&S sectoral policies: Industrial Agriculture and Forestry, Dams and Hydropower, Thermal Power, Thermal Coal, Defense and Security, Mining, Shipping, Civil Nuclear Power, Oil and Gas, Tobacco."
"63 ➢ Transposition of the Bank’s strategies/policies/processes into written regulations (norms, policies, instructions, work procedures) and their periodic review ➢ Raising awareness of each operational level regarding the necessity to control operations and apply working procedures adapted to the nature and volume of activity, taking into account all risk types ➢ A clear decision process and allocation of responsibilities and authority limits, by hierarchical levels and organizational structures, including appropriate segregation of duties at all organizational levels, in order to prevent assignment of conflicting responsibilities ➢ A continuous process of identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting of material risks ➢ A compliance program ➢ An audit plan ➢ Timely reporting of the deficiencies identified in the internal control system to the appropriate management level, who should address the issues promptly ➢ Timely reporting of material internal control deficiencies to management body The internal control framework described above is applicable to the financial reporting processes and provides reasonable assurance on the reliability of financial reporting, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well as with the internal policies and procedures. It is the Board of Directors’ assessment that the Group has adequate internal control and risk management arrangements in place with regard to the Group’s risk profile and strategy."
"64 8. CONSOLIDATED SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 8.1. General Disclosures Basis for Preparation IRO 2-59 BP 1-5- a,b Framework and Data Selection This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 amending Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, Directive 2004/109/EC, Directive 2006/43/EC and Directive 2013/34/EU, as regards corporate sustainability reporting (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive – CSRD), the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS), alongside the requirements of Article 8 of EU Regulation 2020/852 on establishing a framework to facilitate sustainable investment (EU Taxonomy) and the local legislation transposing CSRD ((NBR Order no. 27/2010 for approving accounting Regulations in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, republished, with subsequent amendments).). The disclosures included in the Environmental Information, Social Information and Governance Information (ESG) chapters (Topical Chapters) have been assessed as material according to our Double Materiality Assessment (DMA)16 or are mandatory according to the ESRS Standards. All disclosure requirements and data points corresponding to topics and sub-topics that resulted as immaterial during the DMA17, are not included in this statement. After the identification of material topics in the DMA, the EFRAG Guidance was used to map the material sustainability matters to the relevant disclosure requirements. Measurement Basis The International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) accounting policies as presented in the annual financial statements have been applied consistently in the financial year. Calculation methodologies used are listed on the pages with the relevant metrics and references. Consolidation The Sustainability Statement for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 (the Sustainability Statement) has been prepared on a consolidated basis, and is aligned with the perimeter used for preparing the IFRS Financial Statements. The scope of consolidation is indicated in Note 2 b) Basis for consolidation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and comprises BRD Groupe Société Générale S.A. (the “Bank” or “BRD”), BRD Sogelease IFN S.A. (BRD Sogelease), BRD Asset Management SAI S.A. (BRD Asset Management) and BRD Finance S.A.18. For the purpose of the Sustainability Statement the consolidated entity (BRD and its subsidiaries) 16 DMA has been performed based on data available at the time when the analysis was realized. Improvements will be considered in the next reporting cycles. 17 For more information please refers to the Annex chapter, table - Content Index - list of the Disclosure Requirements 18 As at 31 December 2024, BRD Finance S.A. was in a run off process planned to be finalized in 2025 (under voluntary liquidation), with its activity kept at a minimum level, thus not influencing materially the disclosures in the Sustainability Statement."
"65 BP 1-5-d BP 2-5- 15 BP 2-5- 17 BP 1-5-c BP-2-9 BP-2-10 BP-2-11 BP-2-16 IRO-2-56 is referred to as „the Group” or „BRD Group”, and its immediate and ultimate controlling party, Société Générale S.A., is referred to as the “SG Group” or “SG”. For the preparation of the Sustainability Statement, BRD Group has not used the option to omit information corresponding to intellectual property, know-how or the results of innovation. Additionally, within this statement mainly mandatory and material disclosures and data points according to ESRS and EFRAG guidance are included. We have also utilized the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards to determine key metrics relevant for specific material IROs presented under the Chapter “Consumers and end-users”. Phase-in option in accordance with ESRS 1 Appending C, has been adopted for specific the following disclosures: ESRS 2 SBM 3, ESRS E1-9. BRD Group’s Value Chain The information included in the Sustainability Statement covers the value chain of BRD Group, including upstream, own operations and downstream, and joint ventures & associates. The DMA has taken into account material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities (IROs) to the extent that BRD Group has ready access to the information. In future we consider expanding this analysis, as the CSRD develops. BRD Group’s value chain consists of the following components: - Upstream & Own Operations, which include the ownership of buildings, IT equipment, direct consumption, supplier relationships, human resources and compliance. - Downstream, which encompasses BRD Group’s core financial services’ clients, including retail, non-retail, leasing and asset management. BRD Group serves a diverse client base, including private individuals, small businesses, SMEs, and large corporations, reflecting the broad impact of its financial activities across the economy. - Joint Ventures & Associates, such as BRD Asigurări de Viață S.A. and CIT ONE S.A, which operate as business partners within BRD Group’s ecosystem. While these entities are not fully consolidated within BRD Group’s operations, they are considered in the value chain analysis, particularly in areas where their activities intersect with BRD Group’s financial services. Additionally, the Sustainability Statement provides detailed information on policies, actions, targets, and metrics that extend across the entire value chain, including BRD Group’s own operations and its relationships with upstream suppliers, downstream clients, and joint ventures & associates. Disclosures in Relation to Specific Circumstances For the preparation of the Sustainability Statement, BRD Group has adopted the same definition for short (1 year), medium (up to 5 year) and long-term (more than 5 years) as indicated by ESRS 1 section 6.4 paragraph 77. When data was not available, averages or proxies were used. Details on the estimates, data sources and any potential measurement uncertainties or assumptions are provided within the relevant Topical Chapters. For more details, please see the information reported below in the section “Disclaimer”. For a list of information incorporated by reference, please refer to the Annex Chapter."
"66 BP-2-12 The List of disclosure requirements and the List of datapoints in cross-cutting and Topical Standards that derive from other EU legislation are reported in the Annex Chapter. In developing its consolidated Sustainability Statement, the Group has not relied upon other European standards nor on data and processes verified by an external assurance provider other than the provider of limited assurance for this report. Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the frameworks, guidelines, policies, effectiveness of the actions, targets and metrics presented in this Sustainability Statement are not validated, audited, certified or assessed by or based on the opinion of an external body other than the assurance provider for this statement. Disclaimer Estimates and uncertainties Information related to sustainability is often subject to uncertainties stemming from the state of scientific and economic knowledge, as well as the quality of both internal and external data, such as those used for for the value chain. Moreover, prospective information, unavailable data, and the quantification of certain sustainability metrics - particularly environment data - rely on estimates and judgements based on BRD Group’s experience and internationally recognized sustainability standards. These estimates depend heavily on the hypotheses and methodological choices made. Use of estimates and associated limitations Sustainability metrics, especially those related to the BRD Group’s value chain like CO2 emissions, are based on estimates, averages, or assumptions, leading to data volatility and quality uncertainties. When direct measurement isn't possible, data from customers or external providers introduce potential inaccuracies. In the absence of specific information, sector and geographical averages are used, which may not accurately reflect the BRD Group’s customer portfolio. Greenhouse gas emissions related to financing activities often require combining multiple data sources. Emission factors, which convert consumption data into greenhouse gas emissions (GHG, in tons of carbon dioxide equivalent - tCO2eq), vary by source and context. CO2 emissions span various categories, each with inherent uncertainties. Additionally, differing methodological practices and changing regulations complicate CO2 emissions estimation across the value chain. Details on data or estimate limitations are provided in the metric descriptions. The BRD Group is committed to improving practices and methodologies as standardized, high- quality data become more available from external partners. Uncertainties inherent in forward-looking information The sustainability statement includes objectives and forward-looking statements reflecting the BRD Group’s ambitions. This information should be used cautiously, as it's based on current beliefs and economic forecasts and is subject to significant uncertainties beyond the BRD Group's control. These statements do not guarantee the realization of all ambitions. The sustainability statement outlines the BRD Group’s trajectory in line with CSRD and ESRS obligations, not a definitive outcome."
"67 BRD Group Governance Practices GOV 1- 22- a,d Sustainability Governance At BRD Group level, the Board of Directors (BoD) holds ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Group’s Sustainability Strategy, ensuring the effective management of material impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs). This includes defining long-term objectives and targets that align with the BRD Group’s commitments to stakeholders, regulatory compliance and broader ESG priorities. The BoD ensures that sustainability considerations are integrated into the BRD Group’s strategic direction, reinforcing alignment with regulatory frameworks, stakeholder expectations and the overarching sustainability commitments of Société Générale Group (SG). Through its governance role, the BoD drives responsible decision-making, monitors progress on sustainability initiatives and ensures that BRD Group remains resilient in addressing ESG challenges and opportunities. The Executive Committee (EC) is responsible for implementing the Sustainability Strategy across all relevant business lines and functions, ensuring that the defined targets are translated into actionable plans across business units. To support these efforts, the Sustainability Committee - ESG, established in 2021 and chaired by the CEO of the Bank, functions as a permanent decisional body focused on strategic CSR and ESG analysis. The members of this committee consist of permanent members, CEO together with the rest of the EC, General Secretary, ESPIF Director, Acquisitions (ACH) Director, Executive Director Financial Risk Poling, and guests from other departments (i.e. compliance, legal, logistics, human resources, business lines). This committee’s mission is to establish the actions required to implement sustainability, climate, and environmental strategies and policies in line with Bank’s objectives, The Committee’s meetings in 2024 addressed CSRD obligations, including Sustainability Strategy. A key responsibility of the committee is to monitor progress toward established sustainability targets, ensuring accountability and alignment with BRD Group’s broader ESG strategy. To this end, it evaluates key performance indicators (KPIs) and monitors sustainability initiatives, meeting periodically (twice a year or as often as necessary) to review material issues, regulatory developments and strategic objectives. The EC periodically informs the BoD regarding the progress of the Sustainability Strategy implementation, including specific aspects related to material impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs). The responsibilities related to sustainability for the BoD and EC are formalised collectively according to legal provisions (Company’s Law and Civil Code). The General Secretariat, under the CEO’s direct authority, coordinates sustainability efforts, acting as the main liaison with stakeholders on ESG matters. It also plays a central role in coordinating and monitoring progress, establishing sustainability indicators in collaboration with relevant departments and ensuring regular reporting to internal and external stakeholders. The Finance Department, reporting to the Deputy CEO Finance and Treasury, is responsible for the publication of the Annual Report which from financial year ended December 31, 2024 onwards integrates the Sustainability Statement. The Human Resources Department, under the CEO’s direct authority, engages employees in CSR initiatives, manages material risks related to own workforce, as"
"121 FTE from internal resources. No significant monetary amount of Opex were required to implement this action. Future plans include further expansion of the VRV/VRF system rollout across additional branches and continuous upgrades to heating solutions to meet evolving efficiency standards. Further evaluations will be conducted to identify additional replacement needs and future expansion opportunities in line with BRD’s long-term sustainability strategy Green IT Program (Own Operations)_ (Decarbonization lever: energy or material efficiency and consumption reduction) Energy The Green IT program, launched at SG level and implemented within BRD Group as well, directly contributes to BRD Group’s sustainability and policy objectives by significantly reducing the environmental impact of IT operations while maintaining high service quality. It aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions generated by IT activities with 50% by 2025, thus contributing to the GHG reduction target disclosed in this report. This action does not address the policies disclosed in this report and is not meant to provide for the provision of remedy for those harmed by actual material impact but rather contribute BRD Group’s commitment to a transition to a low-carbon economy. Implementing energy-efficient technologies, such as server virtualization and HVAC optimization, is expected to reduce energy consumption by approximately 1,000 MWh, equating to an estimated 400 tCO2 reduction by the end of 2025. The adoption of remote working policies, with employees working from home up to four days per week, helps minimize emissions related to daily commuting and energy use in office buildings. Additionally, workplace asset optimization, including reducing the number of printers, monitors and workstations, contributes to lower energy consumption and cost savings. The scope of BRD Group's Green IT initiatives spans across its entire value chain, including upstream activities related to procurement and sourcing of IT equipment, and downstream activities related to IT service delivery and operations. Internally, the program covers data centres, branch offices, corporate headquarters and remote working environments, affecting a broad range of stakeholders such as IT employees, operational teams and management. The program impacts external stakeholders through partnerships with waste management organizations, such as Ateliere Fără Frontiere, which facilitates the responsible recycling and refurbishment of IT equipment. Geographically, the actions cover all BRD operations across Romania, including urban and rural branch locations. The program also involves cross-functional collaboration with SG Group's global sustainability initiatives, ensuring alignment with international standards and best practices for IT-related environmental performance. BRD Group’s Green IT Program is structured within a clear timeline to ensure measurable progress toward sustainability goals. The program's initial phase started in 2019, focusing on early actions such as IT infrastructure optimization and employee awareness programs. Ongoing initiatives, such as server virtualization, printer fleet reductions, and HVAC optimizations, are expected to reach completion by the end of 2025. The CSR Guide and CO2 Simulator tools were introduced in 2024, with implementation expected to be fully integrated into IT project lifecycles in the coming years. Remote work policies, introduced in 2021, continue to be in place. Future"
"122 initiatives, such as further data centre energy efficiency improvements and the rollout of solar panel installations, are targeted for completion by H2 2025, ensuring continuous progress toward BRD’s emissions reduction targets. In the reporting year, BRD Group has implemented several initiatives under the Green IT Program, achieving good progress toward the targets. Actions taken include extensive employee training programs such as Sustainable IT Awareness and CSR in IT Projects, with 87% of IT staff trained to date. Additionally, the first Sustainability Talks session was organized in August 2024, focusing on responsible IT practices. BRD Group has also introduced strategic tools such as the CSR Guide, which helps project managers embed sustainability into IT project lifecycles, and the CO2 Simulator, which estimates the carbon footprint of IT projects from inception to production. Infrastructure optimization efforts continue, including the virtualization of servers, reducing physical hardware by 37% from 2019 to 2024 (decreasing from 650 in 2019 to 470 by end-2024), and the installation of solar panels in data centers to further cut emissions. Workplace asset optimization initiatives, such as printer fleet and workstation reductions, are ongoing, with notable reductions already achieved: 39% reduction in the printer fleet, with a total decrease of 1,836 units, and workstation decommissioning by 58%, removing 1,300 thin clients and workstations from operations. Air conditioning replacement efforts across 100 agencies have further contributed to energy savings. These achievements reflect BRD’s commitment to continuous improvement and transparency in reducing its IT-related carbon footprint. Future plans include extending these initiatives by further optimizing data center operations, increasing energy efficiency, and expanding sustainable sourcing practices across IT operations. No significant monetary amounts were required to implement this action. Metrics and Targets MDR-T E-1-4 Established Targets Related to Climate Change Target 1 Achieve EUR 2.4 billion in sustainable finance28 cumulated production by 2027 BRD Group's target to achieve EUR 2.4 billion in sustainable finance production by 2027 aligns with the SG Group’s sustainability policies and objectives. This target supports the SG Environmental and Social (E&S) General Principles by integrating environmental and social considerations into financial decision-making, mitigating risks, and ensuring compliance with regulations. It also aligns with Sector-wide E&S Policies, helping BRD 28 Sustainable financing refers to financial transactions that generate environmental and/or social benefits, aligning with either the Green & Sustainability Linked Loans Framework or the Green Financing Framework, and may include positive impact financing (PIF), sustainability-linked loans (SLL), and other specialized loans like blue or gender loans. Sustainable financing encompasses green or social loans used to finance or refinance eligible Green/Social Projects, with methodologies and criteria that are internally defined and distinct from the EU Taxonomy's criteria, being less stringent than those in the EU Taxonomy. Consequently, not all sustainable finance provided by BRD Group will meet the strict criteria for EU Taxonomy alignment and the Sustainable Financing metric and target presented hereinafter in this report is an internal metric and must not be confused with the Green Asset Ratio (GAR) KPI under the EU Taxonomy."
"123 prioritize financing in sustainable sectors while avoiding environmentally harmful industries. Furthermore, the target contributes to SG’s Climate Policy, supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy by financing green projects and reducing exposure to carbon- intensive sectors. It is also in line with the SG Positive Impact Financing Bond Framework, which promotes investments in projects that generate positive environmental and social impacts, such as renewable energy and social inclusion, while ensuring transparent reporting and accountability. The target is also used to track the effectiveness of the “Business plan for sustainable and positive impact financing” disclosed under “Actions Related to Climate Change Adaptation, Climate Change Mitigation and Energy”. This target addresses all climate change mitigation adaptation and energy material impacts, risks and opportunities, apart from the negative impacts related to carbon emissions and the use of non-renewable energy, addressed by Target 2, described below. The target applies to all BRD activities related to sustainable finance, including corporate lending, retail banking. It covers financing activities across downstream value chains, addressing direct clients and potential clients. The geographical scope includes BRD’s operational regions, primarily Romania, with potential contributions from SG Group initiatives across the broader European market. Upstream value chain does not fall under the scope of this target. The target applies to the period 2023-2027, with regular interim milestones to monitor progress. Annual reviews are conducted to ensure alignment with BRD Group's sustainability goals and regulatory expectations, with interim targets set for each year to ensure a steady trajectory towards the 2027 goal. The target is defined using methodologies aligned with international sustainability frameworks and SG/BRD Group’s sustainability strategies. Significant assumptions include the continued availability, stable economic conditions, and increasing client demand for sustainable financial products. Data sources include internal financial reporting systems, regulatory disclosures, and third-party verification mechanisms to ensure accuracy for certain categories (SLL financing). Key stakeholders, including clients, investors, regulatory bodies, and internal sustainability committees, have been actively involved in defining the target. Stakeholder engagement includes consultations with industry experts, partnerships with environmental organizations, and dialogue with policymakers to ensure the target aligns with market needs and regulatory frameworks. Progress towards the sustainable finance target is monitored and reviewed regularly through internal governance structures, in the quarterly monitoring of business strategy and financial reporting systems. Metrics used to track progress include the total volume of sustainable financing, progress towards the established targets, trends of evolution compared to the target. In addition, on an annual basis, we assess the trend of the sustainable finance market. Performance is assessed through quarterly and annual reviews, ensuring that progress remains in line with initial projections and allowing for corrective actions if necessary. This is a quantitative indicator, and no explicit qualitative data is used to monitor progress. Target 2"
"124 Achieve a 55% reduction in the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline. The target was established in alignment with BRD Group’s strategic vision outlined in the Horizons 2027 strategy, ensuring a cohesive approach to our objectives. It does not however address the policies disclosed in this report. We note that the methodology used to calculate the baseline value for the reduction in the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations was internally developed and refers to categories of emissions associated with Scope 1, 2 and selected categories in scope 3, as described above. The target set by us of reduction with 55% of the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations by 2027 is set in accordance with the above mentioned methodology. Our goal is to achieve this current target by 2027 and set a new GHG reduction target as part of our future Transition Plan. However, the methodology disclosed in section ""Metrics related to climate change"" as well as the actual values for GHG emissions under Scope 1, 2 and selected categories from scope 3 is different from the methodology used to determine the baseline value for carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations. The defined target is to achieve a 55% absolute reduction in the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline of 20,071 tons of CO2 (tCO2). The target is expressed in absolute terms, measured in metric tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e). The target covers BRD Group’s direct operations, including Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions across all office buildings, branches, data centres, and operational facilities within Romania. It does not currently extend to upstream or down-stream value chains but focuses on emissions under the Group’s direct control, ensuring a significant impact within BRD Group’s geographical operations. BRD Group ensures the consistency of its GHG reduction targets with its GHG inventory boundaries by aligning its emissions accounting and reduction initiatives with internationally recognized standards and frameworks, including the GHG Protocol. The defined target of a 55% reduction in the carbon footprint of BRD Group’s own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline, covers the same organizational and operational boundaries used in the annual GHG inventory assessment. The GHG inventory encompasses Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, covering direct emissions from owned or controlled sources (e.g., company vehicles, heating systems) and indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heat, and cooling. Additionally, relevant Scope 3 emissions, namely employee commuting and business travel, are monitored to assess their impact and identify potential reduction opportunities. This approach ensures that BRD Group’s emissions reduction initiatives cover and address all significant sources of operational carbon emissions. BRD Group's integrated environmental management system enables accurate data collection, validation, and reporting across all relevant operational sites. Yearly external audits and reviews are conducted to validate the consistency between the defined GHG targets and the inventory boundaries, ensuring that any adjustments or operational changes (such as new office locations, fleet modifications, or energy procurement strategies) are reflected in both the target and the inventory."
"125 BRD Group has established 2019 as the base year for its GHG emissions reduction target, with a baseline value of 20,071 tCO2 from its own operations. This baseline was determined through a comprehensive assessment of emissions data collected across all operational sites, covering both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, and selected Scope 3 categories. The 2019 baseline serves as a reference point for measuring progress and tracking the effectiveness of BRD's emissions reduction initiatives. BRD Group has selected 2019 as the baseline year for its GHG emissions reduction target due to its operational stability and typical consumption levels. While 2020 was a potential candidate for the baseline, it was excluded due to the significant disruption caused by the COVID- 19 pan-demic, which led to abnormal consumption patterns and a reduction in overall operational activity. This drastic reduction in emissions and energy use in 2020 could have negatively influenced the data, making it an unreliable reference for normal operations. To ensure that the baseline is representative of typical activity levels, 2019 was chosen as it reflects a year of normal operational performance without the external disruptions that occurred in 2020. This baseline value was reviewed to ensure that it reflects BRD Group's operational emissions prior to any significant external factors or anomalies. An intensity value GHG reduction target is not yet established. The target period spans from 2019 to 2027. In 2024 it was achieved a reduction of 45% compared to the 2019 baseline. Further reviews and adjustments are planned annually to ensure the Group remains on track to achieve its final 2027 goal. No specific milestones or interim targets were established. The target was defined using methodologies aligned with international best practices, namely the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Data sources include internal energy consumption reports, contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy and regulatory environmental disclosures. In developing the target EU Green Deal, Paris Agreement, and Romania’s national climate goals were considered. Assumptions include a stable regulatory environment, continued adoption of energy-efficient technologies, and employee engagement in sustainability initiatives. Stakeholders, namely internal specialized teams and operational managers were actively involved in the target-setting process. Employee engagement initiatives, such as awareness campaigns and training sessions, also played a crucial role in shaping the target, ensuring alignment with both business operations and employee expectations. Performance is monitored through the integrated environmental management system, with annual reviews conducted to track emissions, assess trends, and identify areas for further improvement. Key metrics include total CO2 emissions, energy efficiency indicators, and cost savings from energy reduction initiatives. Progress remains on track, with ongoing measures such as remote work policies, energy-efficient infrastructure upgrades, and fleet greening programs supporting continued reductions. Decarbonization levers related to target 2 BRD Group has identified several key decarbonisation levers, described under E1-3 which will contribute to the achievement of its GHG emissions reduction targets for own operations. These levers include: - Energy Efficiency Improvements: The Group is implementing measures to reduce energy consumption across its operations, including the optimization of energy use in office spaces and reducing the energy intensity of production processes. This lever"
"126 will primarily contribute to the reduction of Scope 2 emissions (indirect emissions from purchased energy). - Fuel Switching: BRD will transition to low-carbon or renew-able fuels in its operations, particularly for any remaining fossil fuel use. The move to electric vehicles (EVs) and the greening of the car fleet by adopting Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) and Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEVs) will lower emissions in Scope 1 (direct emissions from owned or controlled sources) by replacing traditional gasoline or diesel vehicles. - Renewable Energy Adoption: One of the key actions will be to increase the use of renewable energy sources, such as solar or green electricity, in its operations, thereby reducing Scope 2 emissions. This includes potential on-site renewable energy generation and the purchase of renewable energy. - Operational Optimization: BRD is enhancing operational efficiencies through technology upgrades, such as automation systems, which improve energy management and reduce overall emissions. For GHG emissions Scope 1, the greening of the car fleet (with BEVs/PHEVs) and a reduction in fossil fuel usage across BRD Group’s operations are expected to be the primary decarbonisation measures. Also, switching from fossil fuels to low-carbon or renewable fuels and enhancing energy efficiency in BRD’s building operations will also help reduce direct emissions. Transitioning to renewable energy (solar, wind, and green energy) for BRD’s office buildings and operational facilities will reduce Scope 2 emissions. Additionally, energy-efficient equipment and technologies implemented across operations will reduce energy demand, further de-creasing Scope 2 emissions. Use of new technology in achieving target 2 To achieve the GHG emission reduction targets, BRD Group is investing in new technologies that will accelerate decarbonisation, particularly for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Some examples include: - Electric Vehicle (EV) Infrastructure: By adopting BEVs and PHEVs for the company’s car fleet, BRD Group will reduce its Scope 1 emissions. In addition, the Group is investing in charging infrastructure to support these vehicles. - Energy-efficient Technologies: BRD will continue to implement advanced energy- efficient technologies in buildings, such as smart building management systems that optimize energy consumption in real-time. - Data Analytics for Energy Optimization: The use of data analytics tools and IT devices will enhance operational efficiencies and energy management, improving energy use efficiency and reducing carbon intensity. Targets alignment with Paris Agreement objectives BRD Group has established two key targets to address its environmental impact: (1) achieving EUR 2.4 billion in sustainable finance production by 2027, and (2) achieving a 55% reduction in the carbon footprint of its own operations by 2027, compared to the 2019 baseline. However, it is important to note that these targets are not science-based and have not been explicitly aligned with limiting global warming to 1.5°C. The methodology used to determine these targets is primarily based on internal assessments, industry benchmarks and alignment with SG Group ambitions, rather than a sectoral decarbonization pathway. BRD Group’s carbon reduction target for operational emissions is derived from an analysis of its historical emissions, operational energy efficiency initiatives, and anticipated improvements in energy procurement and building infrastructure. The sustainable finance target is based on the SG Group’s strategic"
"127 E1-5 commitment to financing projects aligned with environmental and social objectives, with a focus on renewable energy, energy efficiency, and green infrastructure. Underlying climate and policy scenarios have been considered to a limited extent in the target-setting process. While BRD Group acknowledges the importance of regulatory factors such as the EU Green Deal, and the Taxonomy Regulation, the current targets are primarily based on achievable operational improvements and projected market trends rather than detailed climate scenario modelling. In setting these targets, BRD Group has considered several critical assumptions, including: - Future developments in regulatory factors: anticipated tightening of energy efficiency regulations and environmental reporting requirements. - Technological advancements: the adoption of energy-efficient technologies and digital solutions to reduce emissions across owned operations. - Changes in customer preferences and demand: an expected increase in demand for green financial products and services, supporting the sustainable finance goal. - Potential business growth: expansion of operations and potential changes in energy consumption patterns, which have been factored into reduction estimates. BRD Group confirms that the GHG reduction targets have not been externally assured, though internal reviews and progress monitoring mechanisms are in place to track achievement against the stated objectives. Climate Scenario In setting BRD Group’s GHG reduction target, climate scenarios were not explicitly considered as part of the target-setting process. While climate scenarios were not formally included in the initial tar-get-setting phase, BRD Group has committed to reducing its carbon footprint in alignment with broader environmental regulations and market developments, including the EU Green Deal and EU climate targets. Metrics related to climate change This section presents the key metrics that have been identified as material for tracking BRD Group’s performance in relation to the material IROs. These metrics provide insights into the effectiveness of the BRD Group’s IROs management strategies and its commitment to address climate change. The calculations for the energy consumption for BRD and Sogelease were made based in the invoices received by the suppliers. The data were afterwards inputted by the internal teams based on the different types of energy required by the reporting standard. For the renewable energy, the explanation is provided under the Contractual instruments used for the sale and purchase of energy paragraph below. For BRD AM, the data was provided by the owner of the building in which BRD AM is headquarter. Table 5 - Energy Consumption and mix related to BRD Groupe Société Générale S.A. and BRD Sogelease Energy Consumption and mix Unit Measure 2024"
"128 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products MWh 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products MWh 336 Fuel consumption from natural gas MWh 16,003 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources MWh 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources MWh 1,630 Total fossil energy consumption MWh 17,969 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 48% Consumption from nuclear sources MWh Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 0 Fuel consumption for renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) MWh 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources MWh 19,465 The consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy MWh 0 Total renewable energy consumption MWh 19,465 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption % 52% Total energy consumption MWh 37,434 Note to data related to “Energy Consumption and mix”: The data includes diesel used for the generator and heating. The data is not validated by an external body. No assumptions were used Table 6 - Energy Consumption and mix related to BRD Asset Management Energy Consumption and mix Unit Measure 2024 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products MWh 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products MWh 0 Fuel consumption from natural gas MWh 37.56 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources MWh 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources MWh 47.34 Total fossil energy consumption MWh 84.90 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 100% Consumption from nuclear sources MWh 0 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 0 Fuel consumption for renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) MWh 0"

--- f3bb40f8-e502-409f-b3b3-a61e2954531b ---
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 42 FIG. 3.7 GLA (‘000s sqm) 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 7,617 10,467 5,882 5,100 4,600 11,790 13,330 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 29% 28% 27% 26% 25% 24% 23% 22% 27.5% 23.9% 24.2% 27.8% 27.4% 28.8% FIG. 3.8 CTP MARKET SHARE EVOLUTION OF IN-PLACE GLA, (CORE MARKETS *) (in %) * CZ, RO, HU, SK Source: CBRE 14,000 13,000 12,000 11,000 10,000 9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 FIG. 3.9 GROWTH OF GLA 2021 – 2024 700 846 357 1,647 10,467 13,330 11,790 7,617 19 573 948 226 397 2021 YE Core market Expansion Western 2022 YE Core market Expansion Western 2023 YE Core market Expansion Western 2024 YE (‘000 sqm)"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 43 FIG. 3.11 OCCUPANCY (in %) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 95% 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 94% 94% 95% 95% 94% 93% FIG. 3.10 CTP MARKET SHARE OF TAKE-UP (LAST FOUR QUARTERS, CORE MARKETS*) (in %) * CZ, RO, HU, SK Source: CBRE Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2024 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0 32.1% 38.0% 30.3% 27.6% FIG. 3.12 CLIENT RETENTION (in %) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 90% 92% 83% 86% 90% 87% 92% (€ million) 1 No ERV growth assumed, only reversion to current ERVs. Figures may not add up due to rounding. FIG. 3.14 COLLECTION RATE (in %) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 99.7% 98.5% 99.2% 99.8% 99.9% 99.8% 99.4% FIG. 3.13 ANNUALIZED RENT POTENTIAL Annualized rent 31/12/2024 Reversion 2025-2027 (14.5%)1 Future deliveries Annualized rent short-term Reversion (14.5%)1 20 million GLA in 202X Potential long-term annualized rent 0 743 142 21 53 15 >1,000 >1,200 96 Medium short-term Short-term Full landbank development Completions of existing pipeline Indexation 2025-2027 Filling up vacancy to 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 44 1,976 2,113 1,704 1,883 1,143 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 1,175 727 FIG. 3.15 LEASING ACTIVITY (‘000s sqm) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 8% 7% 6% 5% 4% 3% 2% 1% 0 2021 2022 2023 2024 4.5% 3.8% 7.4% 4.0% FIG. 3.16 LIKE-FOR-LIKE RENTAL GROWTH (in %) FIG. 3.17 WAULT TO EXPIRY (years) 8 7 6 5 4 2 1 0 6.5 6.0 5.4 5.4 6.6 6.4 6.7 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0 Growth markets Core markets Western markets Group 21.0% 14.5% FIG. 3.18 REVERSIONARY POTENTIAL BY MARKET (in %) 2.3% 15.4% FIG. 3.19 ERV VS. EXPIRING IN-PLACE RENT 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 100 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 20% 16% 12% 8% 4% 0% 25.4 27.5 46.2 40.7 48.4 62.8 79.1 88.1 51.3 11.2% 18.9% 12.2% 11.5% 8.3% 56.0 Annualised Rent ERV Reversion (%)"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 45 3.2.3 Development After completing 1.2 million sqm of GLA in 2023, CTP continued its disciplined investment in its highly profita- ble pipeline and set a new record of 1.3 million sqm deliv- ered in 2024. The developments were approximately 92% let at delivery and will generate an annualised contracted rental income of €83.4 million, with another €7.3 million when these reach full occupancy. Some of the main deliveries during 2024 were: 169,000 sqm at CTPark Warsaw West (Poland); 120,000 sqm at CTPark Budapest Szigetszentmiklós (Hungary); 87,000 sqm at CTPark Ploiesti (Romania); 67,000 sqm at CTPark Bucharest West (Romania); 57,000 sqm at CTPark Warsaw South (Poland); 52,000 sqm at CTPark Novi Sad East (Serbia); 48,000 sqm at CTPark Zabrze (Poland); 44,000 sqm at CTPark Weiden (Germany); 37,000 sqm at CTPark Budapest Ecser (Hungary); and 37,000 sqm at CTPark Žilina Airport (Slovakia). While average construction costs in 2022 totalled around €550 per sqm, in 2023 and 2024 they lowered to €500 per sqm. CTP expects construction costs to stay roughly at this level through 2025. This allows the Group to continue to deliver its industry-leading YoC above 10%, which is also supported by CTP’s unique Parkmak- er strategy and in-house construction and procurement expertise. CTP was able to deliver its projects in 2024 with a YoC of 10.1% (2023: 10.8%). The Group targets a YoC of 11% for new construction across its core CEE markets, with lower targets of 10% for Poland and 9% in Nether- lands, Germany and Austria. This industry-leading level is supported by the Company’s unique park model and in- house expertise. At the end of 2024, the Group had 1.8 million sqm of pro- jects under construction with a potential rental income of €142 million and an expected YoC of 10.3%. The largest expansion markets are Czech Republic and Poland, with 482,000 sqm and 283,000 sqm under construction, re- spectively. CTP has a long track record of delivering sustainable growth through its client-led development in its existing parks. 80% of the Group’s projects under construction are in existing parks, while 7% are in new parks that have the potential to be developed to more than 100,000 sqm of GLA. The Group is targeting the delivery of 1.2 million sqm–1.7 million sqm in 2025, subject to client demand. The 80,000 sqm of leases that are currently signed for future projects that have not yet started are an illustra- tion of continued occupier demand. Planned 2025 deliveries are 35% pre-let (planned 2024 deliveries were 38% pre-let at YE-2023) and CTP expects to reach 80%–90% pre-letting at delivery, in line with historical performance. As CTP acts in most markets as general contractor, it is fully in control of the process and timing of deliveries, allowing the Company to speed up or slow down depending on client demand, while also offering clients flexibility in terms of building requirements. The Group replenishes its landbank on a continuous ba- sis. CTP focuses on acquiring development sites that are adjacent to existing parks or in sought-after locations with proximity to strong logistics hubs and transport corridors and large, densely populated cities. In 2024, the Group invested €386 million (2023: €224 million) to ex- pand its landbank (excluding options), focusing particu- larly on acquiring sites within its Growth and Western European Markets. In the higher interest rate environ- ment, the Group prefers to secure land through options where possible. CTP’s landbank amounted to 26.4 million sqm at year-end 2024 (2023: 23.4 million sqm), which allows the Company to reach exceed its target of 20 million sqm. GLA before the end of the decade. 18% of the landbank was secured by options (2023: 24%), while the remaining 82% was owned and accordingly reflected in the balance sheet (2023: 76%). 57% of the landbank is located within CTP’s existing parks, while 33% is in or is adjacent to new parks that have the potential to grow to more than 100,000 sqm. The total landbank, which is part of the Group’s In- vestment Properties, was valued at €1,292 million (2023: €920 million). The revaluation in 2024 amounted to €61 million (2023: €104 million)."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 46 (‘000s sqm) FIG. 3.20 DELIVERIES PER QUARTER, 2024 Q1‘24 Q2‘24 Q3‘24 Q4‘24 217 159 169 741 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 (in %) FIG. 3.21 ESTIMATED YoC, PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION 14% 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 13.5% 10.8% 11.6% 11.0% 10.1% 10.2% 10.3% (‘000s sqm) FIG. 3.23 GLA UNDER CONSTRUCTION BY COUNTRY 1.8 million sqm RS 114 SK 160 RO 164 DE 171 AT 116 HU 128 PL 284 CZ 482 BG 135 (‘000s sqm) FIG. 3.22 UNDER CONSTRUCTION 2024 1,753 1,067 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 -1,204 -82 1,972 YE 2023 YE 2024 Deliveries New projects Deliveries started in 2024 FIG. 3.24 PROJECTED ANNUALISED RENTAL INCOME OF GLA UNDER CONSTRUCTION PER COUNTRY SK 9% BG 7% HU 6% RO 6% PL 11% AT 6% RS 6% €142 million DE 12% CZ 37%"
"60 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 P O L A N D C Z E C H I A S L O V A K I A H U N G A R Y S E R B I A B U L G A R I A R O M A N I A G E R M A N Y A U S T R I A N E T H E R L A N D S F R A N C E P A I N M O L D O VA I T A L Y U K T U R K E Y G R E E C E A L B A N I A N O R T H M A C E D O N I A M O N T E N E G R O C R O A T I A S L O V E N I A B O S N I A A N D H E R Z E G O V I N A S W I T Z E R L A N D B E L G I U M D E N M A R K U K R A I N E L I T H U A N I A BERN BASEL ZÜRICH SARAJEVO PODGORICA DURRËS TIRANA SKOPJE BRUSSELS LUXEMBOURG AMIENS ISTANBUL PARIS DIJON LILLE CALAIS DOVER SOUTHAMPTON HARWICH HULL LE HAVRE ANTWERP LIÈGE METZ REIMS CHARLEROI STRASBOURG KAUNAS VILNIUS KIEV ZEEBRUGGE EDIRNE LVIV LONDON ŁÓDŹ CZĘSTOCHOWA BYDGOSZCZ RZESZÓW KRAKÓW BIELSKO-BIAŁA LUBLIN ROTTERDAM KOŠICE PREŠOV KATOWICE WROCŁAW POZNAŃ OSTRAVA BRNO TIMIŞOARA ARAD DEBRECEN MISKOLC KECSKEMÉT ORADEA TRNAVA BANSKÁ BYSTRICA ŽILINA GYŐR SZEGED PÉCS GRAZ LINZ SALZBURG INNSBRUCK CLUJ BRAŞOV PLIOEŞTI SIBIU NOVI SAD NIŠ PRISTINA ČAČAK PLOVDIV VARNA BURGAS CONSTANȚA GDAŃSK CRAIOVA MUNICH STUTTGART NÜRNBERG MANNHEIM MAINZ SAARBRÜCKEN WÜRZBURG DRESDEN LEIPZIG FRANKFURT DÜSSELDORF DORTMUND BREMEN HAMBURG SZCZECIN UTRECHT ARNHEM GRONINGEN PLZEŇ ČESKÉ BUDĚJOVICE LIBEREC HRADEC KRÁLOVÉ ÚSTÍ N. LABEM OLOMOUC HANNOVER WOLFSBURG MAGDEBERG ROSTOCK KIEL LÜBECK EINDHOVEN AACHEN BONN KOBLENZ KASEL CHEMNITZ OSNABRÜCK MÜNSTER REGENSBURG ULM COLOGNE BERLIN AMSTERDAM SOFIA BRATISLAVA VIENNA BUDAPEST BELGRADE BUCHAREST WARSAW PRAGUE A D R I AT I C S E A B L A C K S E A B A LT I C S E A N O R T H S E A 3.5 Group-level Insights KEY CTPARKS >100,000 sqm GLA CTP LOCATIONS <100,000 sqm GLA CORE MARKETS GROWTH MARKETS W. EUROPEAN MARKETS CTPark Network CTP’s unmatched industrial and logistics portfolio—the CTPark Network—is the cornerstone of a resilient European supply chain. The CTPark Network is the largest integrated system of premium business parks in continental Europe. With over 250 locations and a strategic landbank, the CTPark Network provides seamless property solutions for companies to grow, from the North Sea to the Black Sea."
"61 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 TOP 20 PARKS CORE MARKETS CTP is the leading logistics player as measured by owned industrial GLA in each of its most established Core Markets: the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, and Slovakia. In these four markets combined, CTP further increased its market share to 28.8% as at end-2024. As of 31 December 2024, the Group owned the four-largest industrial parks in the CEE region, including CTPark Bu- charest West and CTPark Bu- charest in Romania and CTPark Brno and CTPark Bor in the Czech Republic. GROWTH MARKETS In recent years CTP has di- versified its portfolio and suc- cessfully executed its client-led expansion into the three new key markets of Serbia, Bulgaria, and Poland. They are referred to as “Growth Markets”, where CTP aims to become a promi- nent player in the medium term. Since its launch of operations, CTP has become market leader in both Bulgaria and Serbia. WESTERN EUROPEAN MARKETS CTP’s access to international capital markets has facilitated its market entry in Austria and the Netherlands, as well its strategic acquisition to enter Germany. These Western Eu- ropean Markets now enable the Company to service its clients from the North Sea to the Black Sea, along all main European transit routes, and to grow with them. The top 20 parks represent the core of the CTPark Network. They are thriving business communities, with a dynamic mix of clients from a broad range of industries. The top 20 parks make up 42% of the GLA in CTP’s portfolio. The top 20 parks are home to roughly 40% of CTP’s nearly 1,500 clients; and have a development opportunity of more than 2.6 million sqm GLA. KEY DATA: TOP 20 PARKS Category Top 20 Total portfolio Top 20 as % of total portfolio GLA (‘000s sqm) 5,657 13,330 42% Under construction (‘000s sqm) 362 1,753 21% Landbank (‘000s sqm) 5,179 26,411 20% Tenants (#) 572 ~1,500 n/a WAULT (years) 6.7 6.4 n/a Occupancy (%) 95% 93% n/a"
"62 CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance TOP 20 PARKS Rank Park Country GLA2023 GLA 2024 Share of GLA Total land Under construction Total properties Occupancy WAULT Tenants Year start 1 CTPark Bucharest West Romania 833,000 902,000 7% 1,881,000 89,000 18 98% 5.3 25 2015 2 CTPark Bor Czech 642,000 641,000 5% 271,000 - 15 100% 7.7 26 2006 3 CTPark Bucharest Romania 571,000 572,000 4% 371,000 - 40 94% 3.7 108 2015 4 CTPark Brno Czech 540,000 540,000 4% 287,000 85,000 28 93% 6.8 58 2005 5 CTPark Ostrava Czech 390,000 390,000 3% 6,000 - 28 97% 9.2 81 2006 6 CTPark Budapest West Hungary 303,000 313,000 2% 117,000 28,000 17 92% 5.1 45 2016 7 CTPark Bucharest North Romania 210,000 229,000 2% - - 8 73% 5.7 31 2020 8 CTPark Budapest East Hungary 212,000 212,000 2% 3,000 - 7 93% 4.9 17 2015 9 CTPark Modřice Czech 205,000 205,000 2% 28,000 - 19 96% 4.2 28 2002 10 CTPark Trnava Slovakia 177,000 183,000 1% 945,000 46,000 11 92% 7.2 18 2015 11 CTPark Warsaw West Poland 8,000 177,000 1% 285,000 - 3 100% 10.3 2 2024 12 CTPark Brno Líšeň Czech 175,000 175,000 1% 49,000 - 13 95% 10.9 29 2020 13 CTPark Hranice Czech 152,000 160,000 1% 42,000 - 9 97% 5.3 21 2002 14 CTPark Námestovo Slovakia 144,000 148,000 1% 17,000 4,000 11 99% 0.9 23 2021 15 CTPark Timisoara Romania 144,000 145,000 1% 387,000 - 9 93% 5.0 20 2015 16 CTPark Timisoara North Romania - 141,000 1% 260,000 - 6 88% 4.5 10 2024 17 CTPark Warsaw South Poland 79,000 135,000 1% 107,000 12,000 3 79% 4.8 5 2022 18 CTPark Belgrade City Serbia 104,000 132,000 1% 22,000 - 2 100% 12.3 5 2023 19 CTPark Pohořelice Czech 131,000 132,000 1% 20,000 - 6 100% 6.6 12 2007 20 CTPark Žatec Czech 120,000 125,000 1% 81,000 98,000 4 100% 8.1 8 2007 ~50% OF OUR OVER 1,000 CLIENTS GLA OF PORTFOLIO 42% DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY 2.6 million sqm"
"63 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 TOP 20 PARKS 1. CTPark Bucharest West, RO GLA 902,000 sqm 2. CTPark Bor, CZ GLA 641,000 sqm 3. CTPark Bucharest, RO GLA 572,000 sqm 4. CTPark Brno, CZ GLA 540,000 sqm 5. CTPark Ostrava, CZ GLA 390,000 sqm >500,000 6. CTPark Budapest West, HU GLA 313,000 sqm 7. CTPark Bucharest North, RO GLA 229,000 sqm 8. CTPark Budapest East, HU GLA 212,000 sqm >300,000 >200,000 13. CTPark Hranice, CZ GLA 160,000 sqm 9. CTPark Modřice, CZ GLA 205,000 sqm 12. CTPark Brno Líšeň, CZ GLA 175,000 sqm >150,000 17. CTPark CTPark Warsaw South, PL GLA 135,000 sqm 14. CTPark Námestovo, SK GLA 148,000 sqm 10. CTPark Trnava, SK GLA 183,000 sqm 18. CTPark Belgrade City, RS GLA 132,000 sqm 15. CTPark Timișoara, RO GLA 145,000 sqm 19. CTPark Pohořelice, CZ GLA 132,000 sqm 11. CTPark Warsaw West, PL GLA 177,000 sqm >100,000 16. CTPark Timișoara North, RO GLA 141,000 sqm 20. CTPark Žatec, CZ GLA 125,000 sqm"
"64 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 TOP 10 DEALS IN 2024 Rank Tenant Reported period Sqm signed Park Country Industry Existing client 1 LPP Q4'24 65,000 CTPark Bucharest West RO Retail Trade Y 2 H & M Q3'24 63,000 CTPark Warsaw West PL Retail Trade Y 3 NXT Logis Kft. Q2'24 57,000 CTPark Erd HU 3PL Y 4 Hitachi Energy Q4'24 52,000 CTPark Brno CZ Manufacturing Y 5 Douglas Q4'24 46,000 CTPark Warsaw South PL Retail Trade N 6 Aldi Q4'24 43,000 CTPark Emilianów PL Retail Trade Y 7 LPP Q2'24 43,000 CTPark Bucharest West RO Retail Trade Y 8 Gestamp Q3'24 39,000 CTPark Žatec CZ Automotive N 9 Milšped Q4'24 39,000 CTPark Belgrade West RS 3PL Y 10 Dogmates Q2'24 39,000 CTPark Zabrze PL Manufacturing N"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 118 The CSRD requires companies to report on greenhouse gas emissions using data points established by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (“GHG Protocol”)—a multi-stakeholder initiative to assist countries and companies to account for, report and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions with a set of global standards. The GHG Protocol “Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard” provides a step-by-step guide to quantify and report GHG emissions across a company’s value chain and classifies emissions under three distinct categories, or Scopes, which define the boundaries for the accounting of inventories of GHG emissions. Scope inventory and boundaries Overview of CTP reporting Direct Emissions Scope 1 Direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. These relate mainly to the energy consumed at the reporting entity’s build- ings and fuel use for company vehicles. • energy consumption at CTP’s corporate offices • energy consumption at buildings leased to clients • fuel consumption of CTP’s corporate vehicles and aircraft Indirect Emissions Scope 2 Indirect emissions related to purchased energy for buildings and vehicles. Emissions are accounted for in the reporting entity’s Scope 2 inventory as they result from the organisa- tion’s energy use. • emissions relating to energy for corporate offices • emissions relating to energy for buildings leased to clients • emissions relating to fuel consumption of CTP’s vehicles and aircraft Scope 3 Value chain emissions. These are indirect emissions (not covered in Scope 2) that occur in the val- ue chain of the reporting compa- ny, including both upstream and downstream emissions. Scope 3 is broad but in general includes emissions relating to purchased goods and services, transpor- tation costs, and related waste disposal. • emissions relating to the production of materials procured for construction activities • emissions relating to transportation costs of materials • emissions relating to waste disposal in connection with the production of construction materials The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the three Scopes"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 119 What is a value chain? For sustainability reporting, a company’s value chain includes all goods and services in its upstream (suppli- er) and downstream (customer) activities. Under the GHG Protocol, Scope 3 value chain emissions encom- pass the product lifecycle emissions associated with the production and use of a specific product from cradle to grave, including emissions from raw materials, manufacturing, transport, storage, sale, use and disposal. Upstream Downstream Indirect GHG emissions relating mainly to interactions with suppliers Indirect GHG emissions relating mainly to interactions with customers. • Purchased goods and services • Transportation and distribution of products/materials • Capital goods • Processing of sold products/materials • Fuel and energy-related activities • Use of sold products/materials • Transportation and distribution • End-of-life treatment of sold products/materials • Waste generated in operations • Leased assets • Business travel • Franchises • Employee commuting • Investments • Leased assets Main impact areas of CTP’s value chain • Production, waste disposal, and transport of construction materials • Energy consumption at buildings leased to clients See Section 4.4 for more information on CTP’s value chain. See Section 4.7.1.1.3 for more information on CTP’s Environmental Policy."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 120 4.7.1.1.7 Greenhouse gases E1-6-44, E1-6-46, E1-6-47, E1-6-48, E1-6-49, E1-6-50, E1-6-51, E1-6-52, E1-6-53, E1-6-54, E1-6-55 CTP’s GHG emissions have been calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol. CTP presents GHG emission data using the financial control approach as required by the ESRS and the operational control approach commonly used in the real estate industry. The GHG emissions disclosed in this Annual Re- port relate to the Group and its value chain in relation to purchased goods and services, which are focused on the materials CTP uses for construction activities; and to downstream leased assets, which focus on emissions as a result of client operations. See Section 4.4 for more information on CTP’s structure. Using publicly available emission factors, CTP converted all energy consumption to tCO2e. Emission factors were obtained from carbonfootprint.com (for electricity) and the United Kingdom Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (“DEFRA”) (for fuels). For district heat- ing, CTP uses data from relevant ministries of the Czech Republic, Germany, and Poland. For refrigerant losses, the Company uses the GHG Protocol list. These sources were applied across Scopes 1, 2, and 3 and were chosen as they are reputable and publicly available. Data for Q4 2024 was estimated by extrapolating actual data for the first three quarters of the year. Q4 was calculated as the mathematical average of Q1–Q3 and added to Q1–Q3 to calculate full-year data. CTP obtained energy consumption data from 80% of its portfolio. Therefore, estimates have been made to ensure 100% portfolio representation. Data was extrapolated by calculating the energy intensity for each country using obtained data and multiplying this with the floor area for which no data was obtained. The extrapola- tion together with an increase in emission factors are the main drivers of the increase in reported emissions. GHG EMISSIONS FINANCIAL CONTROL (CSRD/ESRS) Retrospective Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 101,075 95,686 −5% Percentage of scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0% 0% - Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 277,434 507,702 83% Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 217,617 299,575 38% Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 213,492 371,550 74% 1 Purchased goods and services 213,308 370,525 74% 6 Business travel 184 1,024 455% 13 Downstream leased assets N/A N/A Total GHG Emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) (tCO2eq) 592,002 974,938 65% Total GHG emissions (market- based) (tCO2eq) 532,184 766,811 44%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 121 GHG EMISSIONS OPERATIONAL CONTROL Retrospective Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 6,782 6,488 −4% Percentage of scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) - - - Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 4,218 5,216 24% Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 3,935 2,889 −27% Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 581,002 963,234 66% 1 Purchased goods and services 213,308 370,525 74% 6 Business travel 184 1,024 455% 13 Downstream leased assets 367,510 591,684 61% Total GHG Emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) (tCO2eq) 592,002 974,938 65% Total GHG emissions (market- based) (tCO2eq) 591,718 972,610 64%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 122 GHG INTENSITY GHG intensity per net revenue (Financial control) Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/e) 0.000879 0.001120 27% Total GHG emissions (Market-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/€) 0.000790 0.000881 11% GHG intensity per net revenue (Operational control) Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/e) 0.000879 0.001120 27% Total GHG emissions (Market-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/€) 0.000878 0.001117 27% Categories 1 and 13 have significant impact on CTP, as the emissions in each category are more than 20% of to- tal emissions. For category 6 data is available within the organisation, and therefore it is reported. Scope 3 categories 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, and 15, are not significant to CTP’s business operations based on the size of the emission. CTP’s GHG intensity is calculated using the emis- sions of Scope 1 and 2, divided by the net revenue of 2024. A negligible percentage of net revenue was obtained from non-high-climate impact sectors; therefore, this revenue is included in the calculation. The denominator for GHG intensity is total revenue. In addition to the assurance provider, reported data in this section (energy consumption, refrigerant losses, and respective GHG emissions excluding intensities) is vali- dated by Arcadis in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2019. The process includes review of a sample and review against underlying evidence, verifying the correctness of the calculations and results. The GHG intensity reduction from 2023 to 2024 is driven mostly by an increase in net revenue Scope 3 category 1 was calculated using available data for completed buildings. The emission intensities have been determined on the country level. These intensities were used as the basis on which to calculate the reported figures for 2024 multiplying the intensities by the GLA (sqm) of completed buildings in each country in 2024. CTP’s emissions are not regulated under the Europe- an Union Emissions Trading System. There were no significant changes in 2024 to the definition of what constitutes CTP and its upstream and downstream value chain. Within its Scope 3 emissions, CTP has included the following categories: Category 1 Purchased goods and services Category 6 Business travel Category 13 Downstream leased assets"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 123 4.7.1.1.8 Financial effects of climate IROs E1-9-66, E1-9-67, E1-9-68, E1-9-69, SBM-3-48, E1-IRO-1-20 In 2022, as a part of overall risk management, CTP con- ducted its first physical climate risk assessment to evalu- ate the exposure of its properties to acute and chronic cli- mate-related risks using a third-party climate modelling tool. The assessment was expanded in 2023 and 2024 to cover properties acquired and developed since 2022. In this assessment, the Company used different RCP models made available by the IPCC, considering items such as, but not limited to, coastal flooding, extreme heat, and water stress. See Section 4.7.1.1.2 for more information related to CTP’s climate risk modelling. The climate-related risks identified as potentially the most impactful to CTP are coastal flooding and rising sea levels. These have been categorised into short-, mid-, and long-term risks. Even in the least severe scenarios (SSP2, medium challenges to mitigation and adaptation), projections indicate that sea levels will rise significantly enough that, in the long term, the Company’s portfolio in the Netherlands could be affected, with some assets po- tentially falling below sea level. This is similarly true for a limited number of properties along the German Wadden Sea coast. However, CTP regards these risks as policy risks, given that both Dutch and German governments are implementing measures to mitigate them. Based on its analysis, CTP concludes that five of its properties1 are at risk, representing, at most, 1.2% of the portfolio’s value. As part of the climate risk assessment mentioned above, transition climate risks were also examined. CTP utilised the CRREM tool developed by the Carbon Risk Real Es- tate Monitor to evaluate which buildings might need ad- ditional investment to increase energy efficiency in order to meet anticipated regulatory requirements. However, given that CTP buildings support a variety of uses, even within a CRREM category, the Company ac- knowledges limitations to the applicability of the CRREM tool on its portfolio. Client energy consumption is includ- ed in the analysis and can vary significantly depending on the client’s industry. For instance, the size of the cold storage area within a warehouse is not considered as an input, although it significantly influences the building’s energy consumption and thus affects the outcome of the assessment. With the expected impacts of the EU’s En- ergy Performance Buildings Directive (“EPBD”), which was revised in 2024, CTP considers other aspects such as the Energy Performance Certificate (“EPC”) to be more accurate indicators of the energy efficiency of its buildings. CRREM was used as a testing and indication tool, while EPCs were used for a more precise assessment of transition climate risks. CTP continuously upgrades its portfolio to ensure that it retains its high energy clas- sifications. Construction of new buildings follows up-to- date requirements and CTP’s internal ESG requirements, which in many cases go beyond local building code re- quirements. Expected costs related to material and tran- sition climate risks have been calculated for a sample of properties, the outcome of which is presented in Section 4.7.1.1.1. The impact of the both physical and transition related cli- mate risks is expressed in the property values, as these go through a bi-annual evaluation process. CTP uses re- nowned valuators to ensure all climate-related aspects are taking into account. Additionally, properties are in- sured. Therefore, CTP considers expected costs as part of business as usual. CTP has not identified transition risks that are financially material to the portfolio over the short and medium term. Additionally, the long-term impact of physical cli- mate risks is presented in the paragraphs above, while the long-term impact of transition risks is considered as too volatile to be reliable. The volatility of energy prices in Europe in recent years have made CTP’s clients more aware of the short- and long-term costs of energy. There was a visible increase in client demand for energy from renewable sources during 2024. CTP expects its abili- ty to provide clients with renewable energy generated onsite at its parks, as well as other energy-efficiency measures that the Company takes, to attract more com- panies that consider total cost of occupancy as a main driver. See Section 4.7.1.1.2 for more information related to CTP’s climate risk modelling. CTP is a dynamic company with continuous growth through construction and acquisitions. The consistent arrival of new clients and ongoing changes to their oper- ations affect the consumption of utilities within the port- folio. This makes the creation of metrics difficult and re- quires more detailed analysis. Despite these limitations, CTP carried out an analysis of its clients, which confirms that none of its clients operate in the coal, oil, or gas- related sectors. 1 Properties located in NUTS Code areas NL3, DE8, and DE9."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 124 4.7.1.2 ESRS E5 – Material Resource Use and Circular Economy 4.7.1.2.1 Material IROs relating to material resource use and circular economy E5-IRO-1-11 As part of the 2024 DMA, material resource use and cir- cular economy (ESRS E5) was identified as a material top- ic, applicable to all business units and assets considering the development, construction, and operational phases of these assets. The IROs mentioned in this section of the report are based on a business-as-usual scenario. If CTP does not act on these IROs, there is a potential increase in construction cost. CTP’s 2024 DMA process identified the following cir- cular economy ESRS sub-topics as material: E5 – Resource use and circular economy Waste Resource inflows, including resource use Summary • Only actual negative impacts, and no risks or oppor- tunities, have been identified. Resource inflows and outflows are resources related to CTP’s construction activities. • No related risks and opportunities were identified. • The following materials are used by CTP as part of its business activities and prioritised in this order: 1) steel/iron; 2) concrete and related products; and 3) asphalt. • Affected communities were not identified for this topic. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or compulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material top- ics, including impacts of doing business as usual. 4.7.1.2.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5-1-12, E5-1-14, E5-ESRS-2-62 Waste management is part of CTP’s Environmental Pol- icy. The policy’s objective is to create a systemised ap- proach towards environmental matters and propose rel- evant actions. The policy applies to CTP’s own operations and activities, including incorporating waste manage- ment practices into its construction activities, and cli- ents are not required to comply. The waste hierarchy is not addressed in the current version of the policy, nor are other material matters such as transitioning away from use of virgin resources or sustainable sourcing. CTP plans to revise Environmental Policy in 2025 to develop section concerning waste and materials inflow. The Board of Di- rectors is responsible and accountable for implementing the policy. The ISO 14001 and 50001 management systems are part of the policy, and key stakeholders are considered in the policy. CTP’s Environmental Policy can be found on the Com- pany’s website. CTP also has internal waste management require- ments, which include requirements for new construction and refurbishments. CTP has yet to develop policies related to resource inflows."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 125 4.7.1.2.4 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3-21, E5-3-23, E5-ESRS-2-72 CTP generates a significant amount of waste during its construction activities. The Company has set a voluntary target related to waste management: increase the im- plementation of selective waste collection to 95% of all its construction activities by 2030, compared to 45% in 2023. This target applies to its own projects, independ- ent of location, size, or building type. The progress on this target is measured on an annual basis, through external reporting. This target promotes the reduction of the amount of waste going to landfill and has been formu- lated this way taking into account the maturity of waste handling systems in different countries and locations where CTP operates (stakeholders, such as suppliers and local teams, have been taken into account). For this reason, bearing in mind the limitations stem- ming from it, CTP decided to first focus on the promo- tion of waste-handling practices that allow for the re- use and recycling of materials. It is expected to support progress in waste management, allowing CTP to set up further targets in the future. CTP indirectly addresses the increase of circular materi- al use rate and the minimisation of primary raw materi- als. This is done through the embodied emissions reduc- tion target. CTP has not yet developed targets related to re- source inflows and circular economy. CTP is considering the development of targets, but has set no timeline. CTP tracks the effectiveness of its policies through internal processes, in which management and senior manage- ment are involved. 4.7.1.2.3 Actions and recourses E5-2-17, E5-2-19, E5-ESRS-2-62 Selective waste collection, which includes recycling, is an integral part of the BREEAM New Construction certi- fication process for CTP’s buildings. These actions are ongoing. Through their implementation, CTP expects to increase waste diverted from landfills, i.e., increasing re- cycling and reuse rates. This action is planned to assist CTP in achieving its 2030 target, as explained in Section 4.7.1.2.4. Actions will be further developed in the future. Additionally, CTP implements requirements for its con- struction and refurbishment activities to obtain EU tax- onomy alignment that include waste management. CTP considers CapEx and OpEx related to these ac- tions as part of business as usual. The resources allocated to managing material im- pacts are considered part of normal business operations. CTP is currently collecting data on the inflow of ma- terials, which will enable the creation of informed actions. CIRCULAR ECONOMY TARGETS Base Year (2023) 2024 2030 Target Selective waste collection construction activities (share of projects) 21% 56% 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 126 MATERIAL INFLOWS Material Material inflow (t) Material inflow (t) (%) Steel/iron 433,914 10% Concrete and related products 3,547,333 86% Asphalt 153,878 4% Total 4,135,125 100% Biological materials N/A MATERIAL OUTFLOWS Total Amount of Waste generated during construction/sqm Waste diverted from landfill (recycled) Percenage of waste diverted from landfill (recycled) 8,416.97 3,103.19 37% 4.7.1.2.5 Resource inflows and outflows E5-4-28, E5-4-30, E5-4-31, E5-4-32, E5-5-33, E5-5-35, E5-5-36, E5-5-37, E5-5-38, E5-5-39, E5-5-40 The data in the table “Material Inflows” is based on es- timates obtained from data that CTP collected from completed buildings and extrapolated to cover 100% of the gross floor area (“GFA”) completed in 2024. The base sample includes GFA of 485,277 sqm, whereas CTP com- pleted 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. As part of the BREEAM certification process, CTP received data on materials used in its buildings. As data is delivered in different metrics (cubic metre, sqm, or kg), CTP has made use of the information received in kg to cal- culate the reported numbers. CTP’s material inflow is related to building materials used in the construction process. Among others, impor- tant materials are steel, concrete, asphalt, and the water used in the process. CTP uses these materials as provid- ed by suppliers to construct its buildings. Some materi- als, such as steel and concrete, include recycled content. After completing the building lifecycle, a share of materi- als used in buildings can be reused or recycled. CTP has no available data related to biological materi- als or the weight in both absolute value and percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products, and secondary materials used to manufacture the undertaking’s products and services (in- cluding packaging). The data in the table “Material Outflows” is based on estimates obtained from data that CTP collected on pre- viously completed buildings and extrapolated to cover the GFA completed in 2024. For these estimates, CTP cre- ated a sample of reports related to waste-related data under BREEAM certification. The base sample includes GFA of 489,291 sqm, where- as CTP completed 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. The sample data does not include a breakdown of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and only information on waste diverted from landfills can be shared. Due to the limit- ed data availability, extrapolation of the sample leads to inaccuracies in the reported figures. Considering the na- ture of CTP’s buildings, no radioactive waste can be ex- pected. The waste streams relevant to the sector in which CTP operates is related to construction materials, such as gypsum, plastics, packaging, and insulation. The na- ture of waste in the construction sector makes it recy- clable to a great extent. The 37% of waste diverted from landfill is underestimated due to limited data availability; improvement of this numbers is possible through better onsite waste management and improved data quality. Currently, the available data informs the percentage of waste diverted from landfill. Due to the nature of the waste, this can be considered as recycled, with the rest being non-recycled. The available data does not inform on whether waste is hazardous or non-hazardous. The type of buildings CTP constructs, mostly light indus- trial and logistics buildings, have an expected average du- rability of 50–60 years, in line with the industry average. Beyond CTP’s assurance provider, no other validation took place. 4.7.1.2.6 Financial effects of IROs relating to resource use and circular economy E5-6-41, E5-6-43 CTP’s 2024 DMA process did not identify any risks or op- portunities related to circular economy; therefore, CTP does not foresee a financial impact. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material topics, including impacts of doing business as usual."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 127 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being
"Strategy & Outlook 29 2.2.2 Capitalising on market opportunities The I&L sector is transitioning from being seen by cli- ents as a pure cost centre to a driver of performance (see Section 3.1 for more details). This transition results in a holistic view of real estate in a client’s total operations, including labour, total supply-chain costs, and ESG in order to optimise their total cost of occupancy. CTP ac- commodates this by: • improving efficiency in I&L networks, thanks to its strategically located parks and flexible building lay- outs, which also allow clients to expand at their exist- ing locations; • supporting increased ESG requirements focused on sustainable supply chains and providing amenities/ services to attract and retain local workers; • developing properties with renewable energy sources that also bolster energy security, which is especially important when client operations are highly automat- ed; and • guaranteeing flexibility and speed through estab- lished in-house teams and scale to expand throughout the CTPark Network. With its business model and strategy, CTP is well posi- tioned to capitalise on market opportunities and accom- modate changing client requirements. This is reflected in the Company’s high repeat business, as approximately two-thirds of all new leases signed each year are with ex- isting clients. The CTPark Network—where most of the Group’s construction takes place—supports positive net- work effects for all stakeholders: Clients by providing the opportunity to expand at the same location or elsewhere with- in the CTPark Network, improved in- frastructure, the exchange of expertise and services between clients, and scale to have access to services and amen- ities for their employees that are not feasible for stand-alone units; Communities by providing access to services offered at parks and investments in public transport and green areas; and CTP by enabling market leadership, efficien- cy, and growth with existing clients, allowing for industry-leading returns. CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Strategy & Outlook 30 2.3 Outlook for 2025 Leasing dynamics remain strong, with robust occupier demand, and decreasing new supply leading to continued rental growth. CTP is well positioned to benefit from these trends. The Group’s pipeline is highly profitable, and tenant led. The YoC for CTP’s pipeline increased to 10.3%, thanks to decreasing construction costs and rental growth. The next stage of growth is built in and financed, with 1.8 million sqm under construction as at 31 December 2024, with a target to deliver between 1.2 million sqm–1.7 million sqm in 2025. CTP’s robust capital structure, disciplined financial policy, strong credit market access, industry-leading landbank, in-house construction expertise, and deep tenant relations allow the Company to deliver on its targets. CTP expects to reach €1.0 billion rental income in 2027, driven by development completions, indexation and reversion, and is on track to reach 20 million sqm of GLA and €1.2 billion rental income before the end of the decade. The Group sets a guidance of €0.86–€0.88 Compa- ny-specific adjusted EPRA EPS for 2025. This is driven by strong underlying growth, with around 4% like-for- like growth, partly offset by a higher average cost of debt due to the (re)-financing in 2024 and 2025."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 31 3 Business Environment & 2024 Performance
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 32 Section 3 3.1 Overview of Business Environment & Trends 33 3.1.1 Economic situation and outlook in CEE 33 3.1.2 Main trends in Europe’s I&L Sector 34 3.1.3 Real estate market outlook 36 3.2 Operational Performance 40 3.2.1 Leasing demand 40 3.2.2 Standing portfolio 41 3.2.3 Development 45 3.2.4 Energy 48 3.3 Financial Performance 49 3.3.1 Revenues 49 3.3.2 Net other income and expenses 50 3.3.3 EBITDA 50 3.3.4 Foreign currency 50 3.3.5 Taxation 50 3.3.6 Profit 50 3.3.7 Dividend 50 3.3.8 Investment portfolio 50 3.3.9 EPRA NTA 51 3.3.10 Capital raise 51 3.3.11 Overview of cash flow 51 3.3.12 Post-period events 52 3.4 Funding and Hedging 53 3.4.1 Funding 53 3.4.2 Hedging 55 3.4.3 Covenants 55 3.4.4 EMTN Programme 55 3.5 Group-level Insights 60 3.6 Clients 65 3.7 Country Review 69
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 33 3.1 Overview of Business Environment & Trends CTP operates in ten European countries, from the North Sea to the Black Sea. The Group’s core business, the CTPark Network, services companies active in the industrial & logistics (“I&L”) sector. CTP is also focused on developing and operating advanced high-tech parks in conjunction with local universities and municipalities. The majority of CTP’s standing portfolio is in Central and Eastern Europe (“CEE”), with the remainder in Germany, the Netherlands, and Austria. In general, CEE markets remain undersupplied and are growing faster than Western European markets. The major trends driving the development and growth of the I&L sector across Europe relate to recent and ongo- ing changes to the international geopolitical landscape, with companies focusing on supply chain resiliency and energy security, among others. This has led the emer- gence of nearshoring strategies, particularly in the high- tech manufacturing and ICT sectors, with a “made in Europe, for Europe” focus. The push toward ESG compli- ance and the need to decarbonise supply chains are also driving change. Western Europe remains a highly attractive destina- tion for foreign investors due to its mature and estab- lished markets, which offer stability and reliability. While the region boasts a long history of excellence in manu- facturing and technology, and world-renowned academ- ic institutions, Western European economies are in the midst of re-invention. They are are being transformed by emerging new industries, and previous more energy- and labour-intensive industries are being displaced or disap- pearing. CEE remains the business-smart choice for a wide range of activities, from high-tech manufacturing and R&D to logistics and e-commerce. With its mix of strate- gic location, developed infrastructure, skilled workforce, and overall lower operational costs, CEE is emerging as a “hotspot” for the deployment of European nearshoring strategies. Market maturity varies from country to coun- try, but CEE overall offers more opportunity for green- field investments than Western European markets. The European Union (“EU”) continues to make largescale investments to further develop transport infrastructure, with a focus on CEE. Investment incentives from the Member States are available for qualifying projects, par- ticularly in high-tech. 3.1.1 Economic situation and outlook in CEE Since 2008, CEE economies have consistently outper- formed other European regions and are expected to maintain this trend in the near term (Fig. 3.1). The mac- roeconomic outlook for CEE economies remains strong. After hitting a low point in 2023, economic growth has rebounded, driven by domestic demand fuelled by disin- flation, wage increases, and relaxed fiscal policies. On average, the GDP of CEE economies are expected to have a compounded annual growth (“CAGR”) of 2.2% between 2024–2029 (Fig. 3.1). S&P Global Ratings an- ticipates that CEE GDP growth will also benefit from robust foreign direct investment and substantial EU fund inflows. These factors are expected to more than cover any modest current account deficits, following the region’s significant external adjustment after the 2022 energy price shock. Germany, the largest economy in Europe with a real GDP of €3.617 billion in 2023, is projected to maintain its leading position in the next few decades, although its share of the EU’s total real GDP is expected to decrease slightly, from 21% to 20%. In terms of private consump- tion and total real household disposable income, Germany significantly outpaces the rest of Europe."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 124 4.7.1.2 ESRS E5 – Material Resource Use and Circular Economy 4.7.1.2.1 Material IROs relating to material resource use and circular economy E5-IRO-1-11 As part of the 2024 DMA, material resource use and cir- cular economy (ESRS E5) was identified as a material top- ic, applicable to all business units and assets considering the development, construction, and operational phases of these assets. The IROs mentioned in this section of the report are based on a business-as-usual scenario. If CTP does not act on these IROs, there is a potential increase in construction cost. CTP’s 2024 DMA process identified the following cir- cular economy ESRS sub-topics as material: E5 – Resource use and circular economy Waste Resource inflows, including resource use Summary • Only actual negative impacts, and no risks or oppor- tunities, have been identified. Resource inflows and outflows are resources related to CTP’s construction activities. • No related risks and opportunities were identified. • The following materials are used by CTP as part of its business activities and prioritised in this order: 1) steel/iron; 2) concrete and related products; and 3) asphalt. • Affected communities were not identified for this topic. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or compulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material top- ics, including impacts of doing business as usual. 4.7.1.2.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5-1-12, E5-1-14, E5-ESRS-2-62 Waste management is part of CTP’s Environmental Pol- icy. The policy’s objective is to create a systemised ap- proach towards environmental matters and propose rel- evant actions. The policy applies to CTP’s own operations and activities, including incorporating waste manage- ment practices into its construction activities, and cli- ents are not required to comply. The waste hierarchy is not addressed in the current version of the policy, nor are other material matters such as transitioning away from use of virgin resources or sustainable sourcing. CTP plans to revise Environmental Policy in 2025 to develop section concerning waste and materials inflow. The Board of Di- rectors is responsible and accountable for implementing the policy. The ISO 14001 and 50001 management systems are part of the policy, and key stakeholders are considered in the policy. CTP’s Environmental Policy can be found on the Com- pany’s website. CTP also has internal waste management require- ments, which include requirements for new construction and refurbishments. CTP has yet to develop policies related to resource inflows."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 125 4.7.1.2.4 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3-21, E5-3-23, E5-ESRS-2-72 CTP generates a significant amount of waste during its construction activities. The Company has set a voluntary target related to waste management: increase the im- plementation of selective waste collection to 95% of all its construction activities by 2030, compared to 45% in 2023. This target applies to its own projects, independ- ent of location, size, or building type. The progress on this target is measured on an annual basis, through external reporting. This target promotes the reduction of the amount of waste going to landfill and has been formu- lated this way taking into account the maturity of waste handling systems in different countries and locations where CTP operates (stakeholders, such as suppliers and local teams, have been taken into account). For this reason, bearing in mind the limitations stem- ming from it, CTP decided to first focus on the promo- tion of waste-handling practices that allow for the re- use and recycling of materials. It is expected to support progress in waste management, allowing CTP to set up further targets in the future. CTP indirectly addresses the increase of circular materi- al use rate and the minimisation of primary raw materi- als. This is done through the embodied emissions reduc- tion target. CTP has not yet developed targets related to re- source inflows and circular economy. CTP is considering the development of targets, but has set no timeline. CTP tracks the effectiveness of its policies through internal processes, in which management and senior manage- ment are involved. 4.7.1.2.3 Actions and recourses E5-2-17, E5-2-19, E5-ESRS-2-62 Selective waste collection, which includes recycling, is an integral part of the BREEAM New Construction certi- fication process for CTP’s buildings. These actions are ongoing. Through their implementation, CTP expects to increase waste diverted from landfills, i.e., increasing re- cycling and reuse rates. This action is planned to assist CTP in achieving its 2030 target, as explained in Section 4.7.1.2.4. Actions will be further developed in the future. Additionally, CTP implements requirements for its con- struction and refurbishment activities to obtain EU tax- onomy alignment that include waste management. CTP considers CapEx and OpEx related to these ac- tions as part of business as usual. The resources allocated to managing material im- pacts are considered part of normal business operations. CTP is currently collecting data on the inflow of ma- terials, which will enable the creation of informed actions. CIRCULAR ECONOMY TARGETS Base Year (2023) 2024 2030 Target Selective waste collection construction activities (share of projects) 21% 56% 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 126 MATERIAL INFLOWS Material Material inflow (t) Material inflow (t) (%) Steel/iron 433,914 10% Concrete and related products 3,547,333 86% Asphalt 153,878 4% Total 4,135,125 100% Biological materials N/A MATERIAL OUTFLOWS Total Amount of Waste generated during construction/sqm Waste diverted from landfill (recycled) Percenage of waste diverted from landfill (recycled) 8,416.97 3,103.19 37% 4.7.1.2.5 Resource inflows and outflows E5-4-28, E5-4-30, E5-4-31, E5-4-32, E5-5-33, E5-5-35, E5-5-36, E5-5-37, E5-5-38, E5-5-39, E5-5-40 The data in the table “Material Inflows” is based on es- timates obtained from data that CTP collected from completed buildings and extrapolated to cover 100% of the gross floor area (“GFA”) completed in 2024. The base sample includes GFA of 485,277 sqm, whereas CTP com- pleted 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. As part of the BREEAM certification process, CTP received data on materials used in its buildings. As data is delivered in different metrics (cubic metre, sqm, or kg), CTP has made use of the information received in kg to cal- culate the reported numbers. CTP’s material inflow is related to building materials used in the construction process. Among others, impor- tant materials are steel, concrete, asphalt, and the water used in the process. CTP uses these materials as provid- ed by suppliers to construct its buildings. Some materi- als, such as steel and concrete, include recycled content. After completing the building lifecycle, a share of materi- als used in buildings can be reused or recycled. CTP has no available data related to biological materi- als or the weight in both absolute value and percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products, and secondary materials used to manufacture the undertaking’s products and services (in- cluding packaging). The data in the table “Material Outflows” is based on estimates obtained from data that CTP collected on pre- viously completed buildings and extrapolated to cover the GFA completed in 2024. For these estimates, CTP cre- ated a sample of reports related to waste-related data under BREEAM certification. The base sample includes GFA of 489,291 sqm, where- as CTP completed 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. The sample data does not include a breakdown of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and only information on waste diverted from landfills can be shared. Due to the limit- ed data availability, extrapolation of the sample leads to inaccuracies in the reported figures. Considering the na- ture of CTP’s buildings, no radioactive waste can be ex- pected. The waste streams relevant to the sector in which CTP operates is related to construction materials, such as gypsum, plastics, packaging, and insulation. The na- ture of waste in the construction sector makes it recy- clable to a great extent. The 37% of waste diverted from landfill is underestimated due to limited data availability; improvement of this numbers is possible through better onsite waste management and improved data quality. Currently, the available data informs the percentage of waste diverted from landfill. Due to the nature of the waste, this can be considered as recycled, with the rest being non-recycled. The available data does not inform on whether waste is hazardous or non-hazardous. The type of buildings CTP constructs, mostly light indus- trial and logistics buildings, have an expected average du- rability of 50–60 years, in line with the industry average. Beyond CTP’s assurance provider, no other validation took place. 4.7.1.2.6 Financial effects of IROs relating to resource use and circular economy E5-6-41, E5-6-43 CTP’s 2024 DMA process did not identify any risks or op- portunities related to circular economy; therefore, CTP does not foresee a financial impact. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material topics, including impacts of doing business as usual."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 127 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 128 4.7.2 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being CTP’s ESG strategy pillar “Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being” contains all social-related material disclo- sures as identified in the Group’s 2024 DMA process, which indicate the following ESRS categories as material for the Company: S1 Own workforce S2 Workers in the value chain As confirmed by the 2024 DMA, CTP’s impact goes be- yond the parks and buildings that it develops, owns and operates. For more information on the results of the DMA, please refer to Section 4.7.4. CTP employs close to 900 of its own employees, with nearly 1,500 clients. Both within the Company and in the communities where it operates, CTP, in collaboration with its clients, local municipalities and NGOs, introduces and/ or supports activities that promote well-being, includ- ing charity donations targeting disadvantaged youth and other vulnerable members of society, support for educa- tion, and job retraining programs. See Section 4.7.2.1.13 for more details. 4.7.2.1 ESRS S1 – Own workforce 4.7.2.1.1 Interests and views of own employees S1 SBM-2-12 Employees were included as a main stakeholder group in CTP’s 2024 DMA, and their views and feedback were taken into consideration in the process of identifying ma- terial topics. CTP’s Employee Engagement Survey, which was launched in 2024 as a yearly process, is another mechanism for Group leadership to gain insight into the interests and views of its employees. Through these two processes, information that informs CTP’s strategy and business model is collected. CTP’s strategy and goal are to increase the GLA and thereby the business. This increases opportunities for and expansion of the workforce, strengthening the identi- fied positive impacts. See Section 7.3.1 for the complete overview of mate- rial ESRS S1 topics. 4.7.2.1.2 Impact of material IROs on strategy and business model S1 SBM-3-13, S1 SBM-3-14, S1 SBM-3-15, S1 SBM-3-16 The Company’s IROs relating to its workforce are con- sidered in strategic decisions and ideas related to CTP’s business model. The identified positive impacts are based on the current strategy of growth within the existing business model. The employee-related IROs described in Section 7.3.1 include all types of employees at CTP. The DMA did not identify negative impacts, risks, or opportunities. The majority of CTP employees are white collar em- ployees, working in project management, business devel- opment, permitting, and different support functions such as finance, HR, legal, and others. While analysing IROs for employees and non-employees are taken into account, these employees are considered to be impacted similarly. Employee recruitment and development risks and opportunities, secure employment, adequate wag- es, social dialogue, work-life balance, training and de- velopment, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, diversity, and measures against violence and harassment apply to all CTP employees, includ- ing non-employees, independent of position, age, or gender. More details about employee demographics can be found in Section 4.7.2.1.8. Health and safety aspects apply mainly to employees working on construction sites. At CTP, non-employees are self-employed people. Self-employed is defined as someone pursuing a gainful activity for their own account, under the conditions laid down by national law. This excludes those employees of other companies providing services to CTP."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Strategy & Outlook 30 2.3 Outlook for 2025 Leasing dynamics remain strong, with robust occupier demand, and decreasing new supply leading to continued rental growth. CTP is well positioned to benefit from these trends. The Group’s pipeline is highly profitable, and tenant led. The YoC for CTP’s pipeline increased to 10.3%, thanks to decreasing construction costs and rental growth. The next stage of growth is built in and financed, with 1.8 million sqm under construction as at 31 December 2024, with a target to deliver between 1.2 million sqm–1.7 million sqm in 2025. CTP’s robust capital structure, disciplined financial policy, strong credit market access, industry-leading landbank, in-house construction expertise, and deep tenant relations allow the Company to deliver on its targets. CTP expects to reach €1.0 billion rental income in 2027, driven by development completions, indexation and reversion, and is on track to reach 20 million sqm of GLA and €1.2 billion rental income before the end of the decade. The Group sets a guidance of €0.86–€0.88 Compa- ny-specific adjusted EPRA EPS for 2025. This is driven by strong underlying growth, with around 4% like-for- like growth, partly offset by a higher average cost of debt due to the (re)-financing in 2024 and 2025."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 31 3 Business Environment & 2024 Performance
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 32 Section 3 3.1 Overview of Business Environment & Trends 33 3.1.1 Economic situation and outlook in CEE 33 3.1.2 Main trends in Europe’s I&L Sector 34 3.1.3 Real estate market outlook 36 3.2 Operational Performance 40 3.2.1 Leasing demand 40 3.2.2 Standing portfolio 41 3.2.3 Development 45 3.2.4 Energy 48 3.3 Financial Performance 49 3.3.1 Revenues 49 3.3.2 Net other income and expenses 50 3.3.3 EBITDA 50 3.3.4 Foreign currency 50 3.3.5 Taxation 50 3.3.6 Profit 50 3.3.7 Dividend 50 3.3.8 Investment portfolio 50 3.3.9 EPRA NTA 51 3.3.10 Capital raise 51 3.3.11 Overview of cash flow 51 3.3.12 Post-period events 52 3.4 Funding and Hedging 53 3.4.1 Funding 53 3.4.2 Hedging 55 3.4.3 Covenants 55 3.4.4 EMTN Programme 55 3.5 Group-level Insights 60 3.6 Clients 65 3.7 Country Review 69
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 33 3.1 Overview of Business Environment & Trends CTP operates in ten European countries, from the North Sea to the Black Sea. The Group’s core business, the CTPark Network, services companies active in the industrial & logistics (“I&L”) sector. CTP is also focused on developing and operating advanced high-tech parks in conjunction with local universities and municipalities. The majority of CTP’s standing portfolio is in Central and Eastern Europe (“CEE”), with the remainder in Germany, the Netherlands, and Austria. In general, CEE markets remain undersupplied and are growing faster than Western European markets. The major trends driving the development and growth of the I&L sector across Europe relate to recent and ongo- ing changes to the international geopolitical landscape, with companies focusing on supply chain resiliency and energy security, among others. This has led the emer- gence of nearshoring strategies, particularly in the high- tech manufacturing and ICT sectors, with a “made in Europe, for Europe” focus. The push toward ESG compli- ance and the need to decarbonise supply chains are also driving change. Western Europe remains a highly attractive destina- tion for foreign investors due to its mature and estab- lished markets, which offer stability and reliability. While the region boasts a long history of excellence in manu- facturing and technology, and world-renowned academ- ic institutions, Western European economies are in the midst of re-invention. They are are being transformed by emerging new industries, and previous more energy- and labour-intensive industries are being displaced or disap- pearing. CEE remains the business-smart choice for a wide range of activities, from high-tech manufacturing and R&D to logistics and e-commerce. With its mix of strate- gic location, developed infrastructure, skilled workforce, and overall lower operational costs, CEE is emerging as a “hotspot” for the deployment of European nearshoring strategies. Market maturity varies from country to coun- try, but CEE overall offers more opportunity for green- field investments than Western European markets. The European Union (“EU”) continues to make largescale investments to further develop transport infrastructure, with a focus on CEE. Investment incentives from the Member States are available for qualifying projects, par- ticularly in high-tech. 3.1.1 Economic situation and outlook in CEE Since 2008, CEE economies have consistently outper- formed other European regions and are expected to maintain this trend in the near term (Fig. 3.1). The mac- roeconomic outlook for CEE economies remains strong. After hitting a low point in 2023, economic growth has rebounded, driven by domestic demand fuelled by disin- flation, wage increases, and relaxed fiscal policies. On average, the GDP of CEE economies are expected to have a compounded annual growth (“CAGR”) of 2.2% between 2024–2029 (Fig. 3.1). S&P Global Ratings an- ticipates that CEE GDP growth will also benefit from robust foreign direct investment and substantial EU fund inflows. These factors are expected to more than cover any modest current account deficits, following the region’s significant external adjustment after the 2022 energy price shock. Germany, the largest economy in Europe with a real GDP of €3.617 billion in 2023, is projected to maintain its leading position in the next few decades, although its share of the EU’s total real GDP is expected to decrease slightly, from 21% to 20%. In terms of private consump- tion and total real household disposable income, Germany significantly outpaces the rest of Europe."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 34 3.1.2 Main trends in Europe’s I&L Sector The resiliency of Europe’s industrial & logistics sector is supported by multiple demand drivers and elevated bar- riers to new supply, which include land scarcity and in- creased regulations. Drivers of demand are diverse and include the ongoing trend of nearshoring and the contin- ued growth of e-commerce, where CEE markets in gen- eral offer lower costs and larger growth opportunities. Diverse demand and undersupplied markets in CEE help isolate market volatility. Nearshoring is the sustainable solution for clients to mitigate market volatility The ongoing trend of companies nearshoring manufac- turing and supply chains to be closer to final customers continued at pace in 2024, driving growth in Europe’s I&L sector and for CTP. Companies doing business in Europe are increasing- ly deploying “made in Europe, for Europe” nearshoring strategies to mitigate the risk of disruptions to global supply chains, with a large number of these companies choosing CEE to set up shop. Another reason to prioritise nearshoring is the ac- celerated wage growth in traditionally low-cost Asian manufacturing markets. Nearshoring can also reduce the carbon footprint of supply chains. CEE is the “business-smart” location for European nearshoring strategies The deployment of European nearshoring, near-sourcing, and friendshoring strategies to CEE is on the rise, thanks to the region’s strategic geographic position, which offers cost-effective access to the entire European market. CEE’s business-smart benefits include modern logis- tics infrastructure and connectivity, with major trans- portation hubs close to Europe’s largest markets with high purchasing power. The region also boasts high-tech manufacturing capabilities in locations close to univer- sity cities with access to a highly skilled and motivated workforce. Favourable labour costs further contribute to cost-effective operations. On average, net labour costs (including taxes minus subsidies) in the I&L sector in CEE are more than one-third of those incurred in Western Eu- rope (Fig. 3.3). In general, CEE markets offer business-friendly en- vironments, along with favourable personal tax regimes supporting rising consumer incomes and spending. (Fig. 3.4). CEE’s favourability is reflected in multiple surveys, including the 2023 sourcing strategy report by Maersk. For European companies, three of the top ten countries across the globe for nearshoring are in CEE. In addition to Poland, which heads the list, the ranking includes Ro- mania and the Czech Republic. Stable business environments in Western Europe While CEE countries like Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Serbia, and Romania offer competitive labour costs and growing markets—mature and established Western European markets, such as Germany, offer unparalleled advantages in terms of sta- bility and highly-skilled talent. Growth of high-tech in CEE CEE has emerged in recent years as a vibrant tech hot- spot, particularly in software development, ICT, and data management. Countries like Poland, the Czech Republic, and Romania are at the forefront, with a high number of startups and established enterprises driving the region’s tech growth. As part of the ongoing nearshoring trend, several big-ticket investments in advanced tech are heading to the CEE region. TSMC, the world’s largest chipmaker, recently announced plans to build its first European chip fabrication plant (or “fab”) in Dresden via a joint venture with German tech majors Infineon, Bosch, and NXP. Total investment is expected to reach €10 billion. US chip giant Intel has also announced plans to invest over $20 billion to build its first fabs in Europe—one in Saxony Germany, and the other across the border in Wrocław, Poland."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 124 4.7.1.2 ESRS E5 – Material Resource Use and Circular Economy 4.7.1.2.1 Material IROs relating to material resource use and circular economy E5-IRO-1-11 As part of the 2024 DMA, material resource use and cir- cular economy (ESRS E5) was identified as a material top- ic, applicable to all business units and assets considering the development, construction, and operational phases of these assets. The IROs mentioned in this section of the report are based on a business-as-usual scenario. If CTP does not act on these IROs, there is a potential increase in construction cost. CTP’s 2024 DMA process identified the following cir- cular economy ESRS sub-topics as material: E5 – Resource use and circular economy Waste Resource inflows, including resource use Summary • Only actual negative impacts, and no risks or oppor- tunities, have been identified. Resource inflows and outflows are resources related to CTP’s construction activities. • No related risks and opportunities were identified. • The following materials are used by CTP as part of its business activities and prioritised in this order: 1) steel/iron; 2) concrete and related products; and 3) asphalt. • Affected communities were not identified for this topic. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or compulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material top- ics, including impacts of doing business as usual. 4.7.1.2.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5-1-12, E5-1-14, E5-ESRS-2-62 Waste management is part of CTP’s Environmental Pol- icy. The policy’s objective is to create a systemised ap- proach towards environmental matters and propose rel- evant actions. The policy applies to CTP’s own operations and activities, including incorporating waste manage- ment practices into its construction activities, and cli- ents are not required to comply. The waste hierarchy is not addressed in the current version of the policy, nor are other material matters such as transitioning away from use of virgin resources or sustainable sourcing. CTP plans to revise Environmental Policy in 2025 to develop section concerning waste and materials inflow. The Board of Di- rectors is responsible and accountable for implementing the policy. The ISO 14001 and 50001 management systems are part of the policy, and key stakeholders are considered in the policy. CTP’s Environmental Policy can be found on the Com- pany’s website. CTP also has internal waste management require- ments, which include requirements for new construction and refurbishments. CTP has yet to develop policies related to resource inflows."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 125 4.7.1.2.4 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3-21, E5-3-23, E5-ESRS-2-72 CTP generates a significant amount of waste during its construction activities. The Company has set a voluntary target related to waste management: increase the im- plementation of selective waste collection to 95% of all its construction activities by 2030, compared to 45% in 2023. This target applies to its own projects, independ- ent of location, size, or building type. The progress on this target is measured on an annual basis, through external reporting. This target promotes the reduction of the amount of waste going to landfill and has been formu- lated this way taking into account the maturity of waste handling systems in different countries and locations where CTP operates (stakeholders, such as suppliers and local teams, have been taken into account). For this reason, bearing in mind the limitations stem- ming from it, CTP decided to first focus on the promo- tion of waste-handling practices that allow for the re- use and recycling of materials. It is expected to support progress in waste management, allowing CTP to set up further targets in the future. CTP indirectly addresses the increase of circular materi- al use rate and the minimisation of primary raw materi- als. This is done through the embodied emissions reduc- tion target. CTP has not yet developed targets related to re- source inflows and circular economy. CTP is considering the development of targets, but has set no timeline. CTP tracks the effectiveness of its policies through internal processes, in which management and senior manage- ment are involved. 4.7.1.2.3 Actions and recourses E5-2-17, E5-2-19, E5-ESRS-2-62 Selective waste collection, which includes recycling, is an integral part of the BREEAM New Construction certi- fication process for CTP’s buildings. These actions are ongoing. Through their implementation, CTP expects to increase waste diverted from landfills, i.e., increasing re- cycling and reuse rates. This action is planned to assist CTP in achieving its 2030 target, as explained in Section 4.7.1.2.4. Actions will be further developed in the future. Additionally, CTP implements requirements for its con- struction and refurbishment activities to obtain EU tax- onomy alignment that include waste management. CTP considers CapEx and OpEx related to these ac- tions as part of business as usual. The resources allocated to managing material im- pacts are considered part of normal business operations. CTP is currently collecting data on the inflow of ma- terials, which will enable the creation of informed actions. CIRCULAR ECONOMY TARGETS Base Year (2023) 2024 2030 Target Selective waste collection construction activities (share of projects) 21% 56% 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 126 MATERIAL INFLOWS Material Material inflow (t) Material inflow (t) (%) Steel/iron 433,914 10% Concrete and related products 3,547,333 86% Asphalt 153,878 4% Total 4,135,125 100% Biological materials N/A MATERIAL OUTFLOWS Total Amount of Waste generated during construction/sqm Waste diverted from landfill (recycled) Percenage of waste diverted from landfill (recycled) 8,416.97 3,103.19 37% 4.7.1.2.5 Resource inflows and outflows E5-4-28, E5-4-30, E5-4-31, E5-4-32, E5-5-33, E5-5-35, E5-5-36, E5-5-37, E5-5-38, E5-5-39, E5-5-40 The data in the table “Material Inflows” is based on es- timates obtained from data that CTP collected from completed buildings and extrapolated to cover 100% of the gross floor area (“GFA”) completed in 2024. The base sample includes GFA of 485,277 sqm, whereas CTP com- pleted 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. As part of the BREEAM certification process, CTP received data on materials used in its buildings. As data is delivered in different metrics (cubic metre, sqm, or kg), CTP has made use of the information received in kg to cal- culate the reported numbers. CTP’s material inflow is related to building materials used in the construction process. Among others, impor- tant materials are steel, concrete, asphalt, and the water used in the process. CTP uses these materials as provid- ed by suppliers to construct its buildings. Some materi- als, such as steel and concrete, include recycled content. After completing the building lifecycle, a share of materi- als used in buildings can be reused or recycled. CTP has no available data related to biological materi- als or the weight in both absolute value and percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products, and secondary materials used to manufacture the undertaking’s products and services (in- cluding packaging). The data in the table “Material Outflows” is based on estimates obtained from data that CTP collected on pre- viously completed buildings and extrapolated to cover the GFA completed in 2024. For these estimates, CTP cre- ated a sample of reports related to waste-related data under BREEAM certification. The base sample includes GFA of 489,291 sqm, where- as CTP completed 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. The sample data does not include a breakdown of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and only information on waste diverted from landfills can be shared. Due to the limit- ed data availability, extrapolation of the sample leads to inaccuracies in the reported figures. Considering the na- ture of CTP’s buildings, no radioactive waste can be ex- pected. The waste streams relevant to the sector in which CTP operates is related to construction materials, such as gypsum, plastics, packaging, and insulation. The na- ture of waste in the construction sector makes it recy- clable to a great extent. The 37% of waste diverted from landfill is underestimated due to limited data availability; improvement of this numbers is possible through better onsite waste management and improved data quality. Currently, the available data informs the percentage of waste diverted from landfill. Due to the nature of the waste, this can be considered as recycled, with the rest being non-recycled. The available data does not inform on whether waste is hazardous or non-hazardous. The type of buildings CTP constructs, mostly light indus- trial and logistics buildings, have an expected average du- rability of 50–60 years, in line with the industry average. Beyond CTP’s assurance provider, no other validation took place. 4.7.1.2.6 Financial effects of IROs relating to resource use and circular economy E5-6-41, E5-6-43 CTP’s 2024 DMA process did not identify any risks or op- portunities related to circular economy; therefore, CTP does not foresee a financial impact. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material topics, including impacts of doing business as usual."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 127 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 128 4.7.2 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being CTP’s ESG strategy pillar “Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being” contains all social-related material disclo- sures as identified in the Group’s 2024 DMA process, which indicate the following ESRS categories as material for the Company: S1 Own workforce S2 Workers in the value chain As confirmed by the 2024 DMA, CTP’s impact goes be- yond the parks and buildings that it develops, owns and operates. For more information on the results of the DMA, please refer to Section 4.7.4. CTP employs close to 900 of its own employees, with nearly 1,500 clients. Both within the Company and in the communities where it operates, CTP, in collaboration with its clients, local municipalities and NGOs, introduces and/ or supports activities that promote well-being, includ- ing charity donations targeting disadvantaged youth and other vulnerable members of society, support for educa- tion, and job retraining programs. See Section 4.7.2.1.13 for more details. 4.7.2.1 ESRS S1 – Own workforce 4.7.2.1.1 Interests and views of own employees S1 SBM-2-12 Employees were included as a main stakeholder group in CTP’s 2024 DMA, and their views and feedback were taken into consideration in the process of identifying ma- terial topics. CTP’s Employee Engagement Survey, which was launched in 2024 as a yearly process, is another mechanism for Group leadership to gain insight into the interests and views of its employees. Through these two processes, information that informs CTP’s strategy and business model is collected. CTP’s strategy and goal are to increase the GLA and thereby the business. This increases opportunities for and expansion of the workforce, strengthening the identi- fied positive impacts. See Section 7.3.1 for the complete overview of mate- rial ESRS S1 topics. 4.7.2.1.2 Impact of material IROs on strategy and business model S1 SBM-3-13, S1 SBM-3-14, S1 SBM-3-15, S1 SBM-3-16 The Company’s IROs relating to its workforce are con- sidered in strategic decisions and ideas related to CTP’s business model. The identified positive impacts are based on the current strategy of growth within the existing business model. The employee-related IROs described in Section 7.3.1 include all types of employees at CTP. The DMA did not identify negative impacts, risks, or opportunities. The majority of CTP employees are white collar em- ployees, working in project management, business devel- opment, permitting, and different support functions such as finance, HR, legal, and others. While analysing IROs for employees and non-employees are taken into account, these employees are considered to be impacted similarly. Employee recruitment and development risks and opportunities, secure employment, adequate wag- es, social dialogue, work-life balance, training and de- velopment, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, diversity, and measures against violence and harassment apply to all CTP employees, includ- ing non-employees, independent of position, age, or gender. More details about employee demographics can be found in Section 4.7.2.1.8. Health and safety aspects apply mainly to employees working on construction sites. At CTP, non-employees are self-employed people. Self-employed is defined as someone pursuing a gainful activity for their own account, under the conditions laid down by national law. This excludes those employees of other companies providing services to CTP."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 31 3 Business Environment & 2024 Performance
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 32 Section 3 3.1 Overview of Business Environment & Trends 33 3.1.1 Economic situation and outlook in CEE 33 3.1.2 Main trends in Europe’s I&L Sector 34 3.1.3 Real estate market outlook 36 3.2 Operational Performance 40 3.2.1 Leasing demand 40 3.2.2 Standing portfolio 41 3.2.3 Development 45 3.2.4 Energy 48 3.3 Financial Performance 49 3.3.1 Revenues 49 3.3.2 Net other income and expenses 50 3.3.3 EBITDA 50 3.3.4 Foreign currency 50 3.3.5 Taxation 50 3.3.6 Profit 50 3.3.7 Dividend 50 3.3.8 Investment portfolio 50 3.3.9 EPRA NTA 51 3.3.10 Capital raise 51 3.3.11 Overview of cash flow 51 3.3.12 Post-period events 52 3.4 Funding and Hedging 53 3.4.1 Funding 53 3.4.2 Hedging 55 3.4.3 Covenants 55 3.4.4 EMTN Programme 55 3.5 Group-level Insights 60 3.6 Clients 65 3.7 Country Review 69
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 33 3.1 Overview of Business Environment & Trends CTP operates in ten European countries, from the North Sea to the Black Sea. The Group’s core business, the CTPark Network, services companies active in the industrial & logistics (“I&L”) sector. CTP is also focused on developing and operating advanced high-tech parks in conjunction with local universities and municipalities. The majority of CTP’s standing portfolio is in Central and Eastern Europe (“CEE”), with the remainder in Germany, the Netherlands, and Austria. In general, CEE markets remain undersupplied and are growing faster than Western European markets. The major trends driving the development and growth of the I&L sector across Europe relate to recent and ongo- ing changes to the international geopolitical landscape, with companies focusing on supply chain resiliency and energy security, among others. This has led the emer- gence of nearshoring strategies, particularly in the high- tech manufacturing and ICT sectors, with a “made in Europe, for Europe” focus. The push toward ESG compli- ance and the need to decarbonise supply chains are also driving change. Western Europe remains a highly attractive destina- tion for foreign investors due to its mature and estab- lished markets, which offer stability and reliability. While the region boasts a long history of excellence in manu- facturing and technology, and world-renowned academ- ic institutions, Western European economies are in the midst of re-invention. They are are being transformed by emerging new industries, and previous more energy- and labour-intensive industries are being displaced or disap- pearing. CEE remains the business-smart choice for a wide range of activities, from high-tech manufacturing and R&D to logistics and e-commerce. With its mix of strate- gic location, developed infrastructure, skilled workforce, and overall lower operational costs, CEE is emerging as a “hotspot” for the deployment of European nearshoring strategies. Market maturity varies from country to coun- try, but CEE overall offers more opportunity for green- field investments than Western European markets. The European Union (“EU”) continues to make largescale investments to further develop transport infrastructure, with a focus on CEE. Investment incentives from the Member States are available for qualifying projects, par- ticularly in high-tech. 3.1.1 Economic situation and outlook in CEE Since 2008, CEE economies have consistently outper- formed other European regions and are expected to maintain this trend in the near term (Fig. 3.1). The mac- roeconomic outlook for CEE economies remains strong. After hitting a low point in 2023, economic growth has rebounded, driven by domestic demand fuelled by disin- flation, wage increases, and relaxed fiscal policies. On average, the GDP of CEE economies are expected to have a compounded annual growth (“CAGR”) of 2.2% between 2024–2029 (Fig. 3.1). S&P Global Ratings an- ticipates that CEE GDP growth will also benefit from robust foreign direct investment and substantial EU fund inflows. These factors are expected to more than cover any modest current account deficits, following the region’s significant external adjustment after the 2022 energy price shock. Germany, the largest economy in Europe with a real GDP of €3.617 billion in 2023, is projected to maintain its leading position in the next few decades, although its share of the EU’s total real GDP is expected to decrease slightly, from 21% to 20%. In terms of private consump- tion and total real household disposable income, Germany significantly outpaces the rest of Europe."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 34 3.1.2 Main trends in Europe’s I&L Sector The resiliency of Europe’s industrial & logistics sector is supported by multiple demand drivers and elevated bar- riers to new supply, which include land scarcity and in- creased regulations. Drivers of demand are diverse and include the ongoing trend of nearshoring and the contin- ued growth of e-commerce, where CEE markets in gen- eral offer lower costs and larger growth opportunities. Diverse demand and undersupplied markets in CEE help isolate market volatility. Nearshoring is the sustainable solution for clients to mitigate market volatility The ongoing trend of companies nearshoring manufac- turing and supply chains to be closer to final customers continued at pace in 2024, driving growth in Europe’s I&L sector and for CTP. Companies doing business in Europe are increasing- ly deploying “made in Europe, for Europe” nearshoring strategies to mitigate the risk of disruptions to global supply chains, with a large number of these companies choosing CEE to set up shop. Another reason to prioritise nearshoring is the ac- celerated wage growth in traditionally low-cost Asian manufacturing markets. Nearshoring can also reduce the carbon footprint of supply chains. CEE is the “business-smart” location for European nearshoring strategies The deployment of European nearshoring, near-sourcing, and friendshoring strategies to CEE is on the rise, thanks to the region’s strategic geographic position, which offers cost-effective access to the entire European market. CEE’s business-smart benefits include modern logis- tics infrastructure and connectivity, with major trans- portation hubs close to Europe’s largest markets with high purchasing power. The region also boasts high-tech manufacturing capabilities in locations close to univer- sity cities with access to a highly skilled and motivated workforce. Favourable labour costs further contribute to cost-effective operations. On average, net labour costs (including taxes minus subsidies) in the I&L sector in CEE are more than one-third of those incurred in Western Eu- rope (Fig. 3.3). In general, CEE markets offer business-friendly en- vironments, along with favourable personal tax regimes supporting rising consumer incomes and spending. (Fig. 3.4). CEE’s favourability is reflected in multiple surveys, including the 2023 sourcing strategy report by Maersk. For European companies, three of the top ten countries across the globe for nearshoring are in CEE. In addition to Poland, which heads the list, the ranking includes Ro- mania and the Czech Republic. Stable business environments in Western Europe While CEE countries like Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Serbia, and Romania offer competitive labour costs and growing markets—mature and established Western European markets, such as Germany, offer unparalleled advantages in terms of sta- bility and highly-skilled talent. Growth of high-tech in CEE CEE has emerged in recent years as a vibrant tech hot- spot, particularly in software development, ICT, and data management. Countries like Poland, the Czech Republic, and Romania are at the forefront, with a high number of startups and established enterprises driving the region’s tech growth. As part of the ongoing nearshoring trend, several big-ticket investments in advanced tech are heading to the CEE region. TSMC, the world’s largest chipmaker, recently announced plans to build its first European chip fabrication plant (or “fab”) in Dresden via a joint venture with German tech majors Infineon, Bosch, and NXP. Total investment is expected to reach €10 billion. US chip giant Intel has also announced plans to invest over $20 billion to build its first fabs in Europe—one in Saxony Germany, and the other across the border in Wrocław, Poland."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 35 E-commerce in CEE is maturing, resulting in diverse demand and continued long-term growth E-commerce revenue across CEE has grown consistently over the last few years. In general, the CEE region com- pares favourably with Western Europe in terms of the cumulative percentage growth of e-commerce revenue. Cumulative and projected e-commerce revenue growth from 2018–2029 indicates that CEE continues to outpace the EU-27, with a compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) of 10%, compared to Western Europe’s CAGR of 8% (Fig. 3.2). Professionalisation of CEE supply chains The CEE region’s integration into global supply chains has positioned it as a hub for manufacturing, logistics, and high-value-added industries, reinforcing its signifi- cance to the European and global economies. Combined with the growth of CEE consumer markets, this has led to the professionalisation of supply chains across the region and across industries, with third-party logistics providers (3PLs) handling the full range of supply-chain management and deliveries. Infrastructure investments in Europe Europe is receiving substantial infrastructure invest- ments from both public and private sectors, targeting areas such as transport, energy, and digital services. The EU has allocated approximately €392 billion to its Cohe- sion Policy during the 2021–2027 period. In July 2024, the European Commission selected 134 transport projects to receive over €7 billion in EU grants from the Connecting Europe Facility. The Three Seas Initiative addresses the infrastructure gap between CEE and Western Europe by driving investments in energy, digital technology, and transport. Long-term trend of diverse demand and undersupplied markets isolates market volatility CTP’s client base is diverse, particularly in CEE markets, given the higher share of final assembly and manufactur- ing services. This diverse demand is taking place in a market that is tight, as vacancy across Europe is below long-term av- erages. I&L in CEE is undersupplied, as the sector is a relatively young asset class compared to other commer- cial real estate. Undersupplied markets create struc- tural demand, as clients continue to upgrade to modern grade-A stock. Growth markets in CEE, such as Bulgaria and Serbia, have less than 0.25 sqm of grade-A stock per capita, which places them among the most under- supplied markets in Europe. These undersupplied mar- kets are catching up, fuelling demand as they move clos- er to European averages. Elevated supply barriers due to land scarcity and rising regulatory requirements create structural constraints Barriers to new supply are expected to rise in years to come. This mitigates the risk of potential oversupply and is expected to keep market vacancy rates at low levels. Land is scarce in more mature markets such as Germany, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic. Supply barriers are rising in other CEE markets as well, particularly at sites close to key economic clusters. The second driver of constraints are rising regulatory requirements. Ob- taining permits to (re)develop requires more time, de- laying future new supply. Long and expanding regulatory requirements is a trend seen across Europe but is most visible in markets with the tightest supply, such as the Czech Republic. Permitting timelines are expanding for multiple reasons, including lack of staff at public author- ities and/or stricter requirements. As supply barriers are rising, today’s infill markets are expected to become ultra-infill in the future. Therefore, supply barriers are also expected to be a driver of future rent growth per- formance."
"64 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 TOP 10 DEALS IN 2024 Rank Tenant Reported period Sqm signed Park Country Industry Existing client 1 LPP Q4'24 65,000 CTPark Bucharest West RO Retail Trade Y 2 H & M Q3'24 63,000 CTPark Warsaw West PL Retail Trade Y 3 NXT Logis Kft. Q2'24 57,000 CTPark Erd HU 3PL Y 4 Hitachi Energy Q4'24 52,000 CTPark Brno CZ Manufacturing Y 5 Douglas Q4'24 46,000 CTPark Warsaw South PL Retail Trade N 6 Aldi Q4'24 43,000 CTPark Emilianów PL Retail Trade Y 7 LPP Q2'24 43,000 CTPark Bucharest West RO Retail Trade Y 8 Gestamp Q3'24 39,000 CTPark Žatec CZ Automotive N 9 Milšped Q4'24 39,000 CTPark Belgrade West RS 3PL Y 10 Dogmates Q2'24 39,000 CTPark Zabrze PL Manufacturing N"
"65 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 3.6 Clients FIG. 3.50 CLIENT OCCUPIED GLA BY INDUSTRY (in %) (in %) FIG. 3.51 BUILDINGS BY TOTAL SIZE SHARE OF BUILDING'S GLA FIG. 3.52 LEASES SIGNED IN LAST 24 MONTHS GLA SPLIT BY INDUSTRY (% of GLA) Services 4% Other 2% <10k 12% Whosale Trade 7% 3PL 28% 40k+ 32% Retail Trade 12% Automotive 21% Automotive 16% Manufacturing 26% 10k–40k 56% CTP has a wide and diversified international client base of blue-chip companies with good credit ratings from a broad range of industries. These include manufacturing (high-tech/IT, automotive) and e-commerce, retail, wholesale, and third-party logis- tics. CTP’s client roster of over 1,000 companies repre- sents a solid balance between diversification and con- centration for the Group, with no single client accounting for more than 2.5% of its annual rent roll. A diversity of clients and industries are critical to build a resilient, fu- ture-proof portfolio. Warehousing & logistics is a key sector for CTP, and 3PLs, who may serve one or more clients at a specific location. They are in particular focused on strategic lo- cations to optimise their operations. Many clients in this category are international players, which provide oppor- tunities to cross-sell across markets and countries. Retail is a growing segment for CTP, as retailers have started looking more to CEE markets, driven by an emerg- ing middle class, higher growth of disposable income and faster pace of e-commerce growth in the region. Manufacturing is strongly represented in CTP’s port- folio, particularly high-tech activities, with clients gener- ally signing longer leases as relocating is costly and cap- ital intensive. CTP expects strong demand as a result of the ongoing nearshoring trend. Automotive is also strongly represented in CTP’s portfolio due to the large clusters of manufacturers mov- ing to the lower-cost but educated workforce that CEE offers. The growing trend to develop new electric vehicle (""EV"") innovations is expected to generate more demand in markets offering significant available workforce and technical education, government incentives, and proxim- ity to suppliers. Whosale Trade 10% Manufacturing 21% 3PL 30% Retail Trade 13% Services 5% Other 5%"
"66 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 TOP 50 CLIENTS (RENTAL INCOME, BY INDUSTRY, %) 3PL 14% E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution 10% Automotive 7% High Tech 4% Manufacturing 3% TOP 50 AS A % OF PORTFOLIO GLA 38.4% TOP 50 AS A % OF RENTAL INCOME 35.2%"
"67 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 TOP 50 CLIENTS IN 2024 1/2 Credit Ratings Rank Clients SQM Of Total rented GLA Buildings Parks Countries Industry Moodys S&P Fitch 1 Raben 261,000 2.2% 18 15 6 3PL - - - 2 DSV 231,000 2.0% 17 11 4 3PL A3 A- - 3 LPP 196,000 1.7% 2 1 1 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 4 DHL 188,000 1.6% 21 15 5 3PL A2 - A- 5 Yanfeng 184,000 1.6% 9 3 3 Automotive Baa3 BBB- - 6 Quehenberger 173,000 1.5% 11 7 4 3PL - - - 7 H&M 146,000 1.2% 2 2 2 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution BBB - - 8 Schwarz Group 140,000 1.2% 9 7 5 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 9 Loxxess 119,000 1.0% 3 1 1 3PL - - - 10 FM Logistic 106,000 0.9% 3 3 1 3PL - - - 11 Deli Home 104,000 0.9% 1 1 1 Manufacturing - - - 12 Kühne Nagel 103,000 0.9% 5 4 3 3PL - - - 13 Tesco 99,000 0.8% 1 1 1 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution Baa3 BBB- BBB- 14 Milšped Group 99,000 0.8% 5 4 1 3PL - - - 15 NXT Logis 98,000 0.8% 3 3 1 3PL - - - 16 Primark 94,000 0.8% 1 1 1 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 17 JV Europe 92,000 0.8% 5 4 1 Manufacturing - - - 18 Forvia 91,000 0.8% 5 5 3 Automotive Ba3 BB BB+ 19 Maersk 84,000 0.7% 2 1 1 3PL Baa1 BBB+ - 20 Grammer 80,000 0.7% 4 3 1 Automotive - - - 21 Inventec 78,000 0.7% 3 3 1 High Tech - - - 22 Hitachi 77,000 0.7% 4 2 2 High Tech A3 A - 23 ZETOR Tractors 76,000 0.7% 6 2 1 Manufacturing - - - 24 Ahold 74,000 0.6% 4 3 2 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution Baa1 BBB+ - 25 Honeywell 74,000 0.6% 6 2 1 High Tech A2 A A"
"68 Business Environment & 2024 Performance CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 TOP 50 CLIENTS IN 2024 2/2 Credit Ratings Rank Clients SQM Of Total rented GLA Buildings Parks Countries Industry Moodys S&P Fitch 26 GXO 72,000 0.6% 3 1 1 3PL Ba1 BBB- BBB 27 Brembo 69,000 0.6% 3 1 1 Automotive - - - 28 Renault 68,000 0.6% 1 1 1 Automotive Ba1 BB+ - 29 Valeo 68,000 0.6% 4 3 2 Automotive Ba1 BB+ - 30 Kompan Czech Republic 68,000 0.6% 5 1 1 Manufacturing - - - 31 Mercator 67,000 0.6% 1 1 1 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 32 Network One Distribution 65,000 0.6% 4 1 1 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 33 Wistron InfoComm 65,000 0.6% 2 1 1 High Tech - - - 34 Bosch 65,000 0.5% 5 5 4 High Tech A A - 35 METRO CASH AND CARRY 63,000 0.5% 3 3 2 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 36 Continental 60,000 0.5% 3 3 3 Automotive Baa2 BBB BBB 37 Thermo Fisher Scientific 60,000 0.5% 1 1 1 High Tech A3 A - A - 38 International Automotive Components 57,000 0.5% 4 2 2 Automotive - - - 39 TD Synnex 54,000 0.5% 1 1 1 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution Baa3 BBB- BBB- 40 Geis 54,000 0.5% 5 5 3 3PL - - - 41 Fiege 53,000 0.5% 2 2 2 3PL - - - 42 Hyundai 52,000 0.4% 4 3 2 Automotive A3 A- A- 43 Orbico 51,000 0.4% 3 2 2 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 44 Lenovo 50,000 0.4% 2 1 1 High Tech Baa2 BBB BBB 45 IMI 50,000 0.4% 7 3 1 Automotive - - - 46 Rohlík 49,000 0.4% 6 4 3 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 47 Adient 49,000 0.4% 2 2 1 Automotive BB - - 48 Dr. Max 48,000 0.4% 3 3 1 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - - 49 Mobexpert 47,000 0.4% 2 2 1 Manufacturing - - - 50 Douglas 47,000 0.4% 2 2 2 E-commerce, Retail, Wholesale and Distribution - - -"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 121 GHG EMISSIONS OPERATIONAL CONTROL Retrospective Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 6,782 6,488 −4% Percentage of scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) - - - Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 4,218 5,216 24% Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 3,935 2,889 −27% Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 581,002 963,234 66% 1 Purchased goods and services 213,308 370,525 74% 6 Business travel 184 1,024 455% 13 Downstream leased assets 367,510 591,684 61% Total GHG Emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) (tCO2eq) 592,002 974,938 65% Total GHG emissions (market- based) (tCO2eq) 591,718 972,610 64%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 122 GHG INTENSITY GHG intensity per net revenue (Financial control) Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/e) 0.000879 0.001120 27% Total GHG emissions (Market-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/€) 0.000790 0.000881 11% GHG intensity per net revenue (Operational control) Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/e) 0.000879 0.001120 27% Total GHG emissions (Market-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/€) 0.000878 0.001117 27% Categories 1 and 13 have significant impact on CTP, as the emissions in each category are more than 20% of to- tal emissions. For category 6 data is available within the organisation, and therefore it is reported. Scope 3 categories 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, and 15, are not significant to CTP’s business operations based on the size of the emission. CTP’s GHG intensity is calculated using the emis- sions of Scope 1 and 2, divided by the net revenue of 2024. A negligible percentage of net revenue was obtained from non-high-climate impact sectors; therefore, this revenue is included in the calculation. The denominator for GHG intensity is total revenue. In addition to the assurance provider, reported data in this section (energy consumption, refrigerant losses, and respective GHG emissions excluding intensities) is vali- dated by Arcadis in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2019. The process includes review of a sample and review against underlying evidence, verifying the correctness of the calculations and results. The GHG intensity reduction from 2023 to 2024 is driven mostly by an increase in net revenue Scope 3 category 1 was calculated using available data for completed buildings. The emission intensities have been determined on the country level. These intensities were used as the basis on which to calculate the reported figures for 2024 multiplying the intensities by the GLA (sqm) of completed buildings in each country in 2024. CTP’s emissions are not regulated under the Europe- an Union Emissions Trading System. There were no significant changes in 2024 to the definition of what constitutes CTP and its upstream and downstream value chain. Within its Scope 3 emissions, CTP has included the following categories: Category 1 Purchased goods and services Category 6 Business travel Category 13 Downstream leased assets"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 123 4.7.1.1.8 Financial effects of climate IROs E1-9-66, E1-9-67, E1-9-68, E1-9-69, SBM-3-48, E1-IRO-1-20 In 2022, as a part of overall risk management, CTP con- ducted its first physical climate risk assessment to evalu- ate the exposure of its properties to acute and chronic cli- mate-related risks using a third-party climate modelling tool. The assessment was expanded in 2023 and 2024 to cover properties acquired and developed since 2022. In this assessment, the Company used different RCP models made available by the IPCC, considering items such as, but not limited to, coastal flooding, extreme heat, and water stress. See Section 4.7.1.1.2 for more information related to CTP’s climate risk modelling. The climate-related risks identified as potentially the most impactful to CTP are coastal flooding and rising sea levels. These have been categorised into short-, mid-, and long-term risks. Even in the least severe scenarios (SSP2, medium challenges to mitigation and adaptation), projections indicate that sea levels will rise significantly enough that, in the long term, the Company’s portfolio in the Netherlands could be affected, with some assets po- tentially falling below sea level. This is similarly true for a limited number of properties along the German Wadden Sea coast. However, CTP regards these risks as policy risks, given that both Dutch and German governments are implementing measures to mitigate them. Based on its analysis, CTP concludes that five of its properties1 are at risk, representing, at most, 1.2% of the portfolio’s value. As part of the climate risk assessment mentioned above, transition climate risks were also examined. CTP utilised the CRREM tool developed by the Carbon Risk Real Es- tate Monitor to evaluate which buildings might need ad- ditional investment to increase energy efficiency in order to meet anticipated regulatory requirements. However, given that CTP buildings support a variety of uses, even within a CRREM category, the Company ac- knowledges limitations to the applicability of the CRREM tool on its portfolio. Client energy consumption is includ- ed in the analysis and can vary significantly depending on the client’s industry. For instance, the size of the cold storage area within a warehouse is not considered as an input, although it significantly influences the building’s energy consumption and thus affects the outcome of the assessment. With the expected impacts of the EU’s En- ergy Performance Buildings Directive (“EPBD”), which was revised in 2024, CTP considers other aspects such as the Energy Performance Certificate (“EPC”) to be more accurate indicators of the energy efficiency of its buildings. CRREM was used as a testing and indication tool, while EPCs were used for a more precise assessment of transition climate risks. CTP continuously upgrades its portfolio to ensure that it retains its high energy clas- sifications. Construction of new buildings follows up-to- date requirements and CTP’s internal ESG requirements, which in many cases go beyond local building code re- quirements. Expected costs related to material and tran- sition climate risks have been calculated for a sample of properties, the outcome of which is presented in Section 4.7.1.1.1. The impact of the both physical and transition related cli- mate risks is expressed in the property values, as these go through a bi-annual evaluation process. CTP uses re- nowned valuators to ensure all climate-related aspects are taking into account. Additionally, properties are in- sured. Therefore, CTP considers expected costs as part of business as usual. CTP has not identified transition risks that are financially material to the portfolio over the short and medium term. Additionally, the long-term impact of physical cli- mate risks is presented in the paragraphs above, while the long-term impact of transition risks is considered as too volatile to be reliable. The volatility of energy prices in Europe in recent years have made CTP’s clients more aware of the short- and long-term costs of energy. There was a visible increase in client demand for energy from renewable sources during 2024. CTP expects its abili- ty to provide clients with renewable energy generated onsite at its parks, as well as other energy-efficiency measures that the Company takes, to attract more com- panies that consider total cost of occupancy as a main driver. See Section 4.7.1.1.2 for more information related to CTP’s climate risk modelling. CTP is a dynamic company with continuous growth through construction and acquisitions. The consistent arrival of new clients and ongoing changes to their oper- ations affect the consumption of utilities within the port- folio. This makes the creation of metrics difficult and re- quires more detailed analysis. Despite these limitations, CTP carried out an analysis of its clients, which confirms that none of its clients operate in the coal, oil, or gas- related sectors. 1 Properties located in NUTS Code areas NL3, DE8, and DE9."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 124 4.7.1.2 ESRS E5 – Material Resource Use and Circular Economy 4.7.1.2.1 Material IROs relating to material resource use and circular economy E5-IRO-1-11 As part of the 2024 DMA, material resource use and cir- cular economy (ESRS E5) was identified as a material top- ic, applicable to all business units and assets considering the development, construction, and operational phases of these assets. The IROs mentioned in this section of the report are based on a business-as-usual scenario. If CTP does not act on these IROs, there is a potential increase in construction cost. CTP’s 2024 DMA process identified the following cir- cular economy ESRS sub-topics as material: E5 – Resource use and circular economy Waste Resource inflows, including resource use Summary • Only actual negative impacts, and no risks or oppor- tunities, have been identified. Resource inflows and outflows are resources related to CTP’s construction activities. • No related risks and opportunities were identified. • The following materials are used by CTP as part of its business activities and prioritised in this order: 1) steel/iron; 2) concrete and related products; and 3) asphalt. • Affected communities were not identified for this topic. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or compulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material top- ics, including impacts of doing business as usual. 4.7.1.2.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5-1-12, E5-1-14, E5-ESRS-2-62 Waste management is part of CTP’s Environmental Pol- icy. The policy’s objective is to create a systemised ap- proach towards environmental matters and propose rel- evant actions. The policy applies to CTP’s own operations and activities, including incorporating waste manage- ment practices into its construction activities, and cli- ents are not required to comply. The waste hierarchy is not addressed in the current version of the policy, nor are other material matters such as transitioning away from use of virgin resources or sustainable sourcing. CTP plans to revise Environmental Policy in 2025 to develop section concerning waste and materials inflow. The Board of Di- rectors is responsible and accountable for implementing the policy. The ISO 14001 and 50001 management systems are part of the policy, and key stakeholders are considered in the policy. CTP’s Environmental Policy can be found on the Com- pany’s website. CTP also has internal waste management require- ments, which include requirements for new construction and refurbishments. CTP has yet to develop policies related to resource inflows."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 125 4.7.1.2.4 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3-21, E5-3-23, E5-ESRS-2-72 CTP generates a significant amount of waste during its construction activities. The Company has set a voluntary target related to waste management: increase the im- plementation of selective waste collection to 95% of all its construction activities by 2030, compared to 45% in 2023. This target applies to its own projects, independ- ent of location, size, or building type. The progress on this target is measured on an annual basis, through external reporting. This target promotes the reduction of the amount of waste going to landfill and has been formu- lated this way taking into account the maturity of waste handling systems in different countries and locations where CTP operates (stakeholders, such as suppliers and local teams, have been taken into account). For this reason, bearing in mind the limitations stem- ming from it, CTP decided to first focus on the promo- tion of waste-handling practices that allow for the re- use and recycling of materials. It is expected to support progress in waste management, allowing CTP to set up further targets in the future. CTP indirectly addresses the increase of circular materi- al use rate and the minimisation of primary raw materi- als. This is done through the embodied emissions reduc- tion target. CTP has not yet developed targets related to re- source inflows and circular economy. CTP is considering the development of targets, but has set no timeline. CTP tracks the effectiveness of its policies through internal processes, in which management and senior manage- ment are involved. 4.7.1.2.3 Actions and recourses E5-2-17, E5-2-19, E5-ESRS-2-62 Selective waste collection, which includes recycling, is an integral part of the BREEAM New Construction certi- fication process for CTP’s buildings. These actions are ongoing. Through their implementation, CTP expects to increase waste diverted from landfills, i.e., increasing re- cycling and reuse rates. This action is planned to assist CTP in achieving its 2030 target, as explained in Section 4.7.1.2.4. Actions will be further developed in the future. Additionally, CTP implements requirements for its con- struction and refurbishment activities to obtain EU tax- onomy alignment that include waste management. CTP considers CapEx and OpEx related to these ac- tions as part of business as usual. The resources allocated to managing material im- pacts are considered part of normal business operations. CTP is currently collecting data on the inflow of ma- terials, which will enable the creation of informed actions. CIRCULAR ECONOMY TARGETS Base Year (2023) 2024 2030 Target Selective waste collection construction activities (share of projects) 21% 56% 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 126 MATERIAL INFLOWS Material Material inflow (t) Material inflow (t) (%) Steel/iron 433,914 10% Concrete and related products 3,547,333 86% Asphalt 153,878 4% Total 4,135,125 100% Biological materials N/A MATERIAL OUTFLOWS Total Amount of Waste generated during construction/sqm Waste diverted from landfill (recycled) Percenage of waste diverted from landfill (recycled) 8,416.97 3,103.19 37% 4.7.1.2.5 Resource inflows and outflows E5-4-28, E5-4-30, E5-4-31, E5-4-32, E5-5-33, E5-5-35, E5-5-36, E5-5-37, E5-5-38, E5-5-39, E5-5-40 The data in the table “Material Inflows” is based on es- timates obtained from data that CTP collected from completed buildings and extrapolated to cover 100% of the gross floor area (“GFA”) completed in 2024. The base sample includes GFA of 485,277 sqm, whereas CTP com- pleted 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. As part of the BREEAM certification process, CTP received data on materials used in its buildings. As data is delivered in different metrics (cubic metre, sqm, or kg), CTP has made use of the information received in kg to cal- culate the reported numbers. CTP’s material inflow is related to building materials used in the construction process. Among others, impor- tant materials are steel, concrete, asphalt, and the water used in the process. CTP uses these materials as provid- ed by suppliers to construct its buildings. Some materi- als, such as steel and concrete, include recycled content. After completing the building lifecycle, a share of materi- als used in buildings can be reused or recycled. CTP has no available data related to biological materi- als or the weight in both absolute value and percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products, and secondary materials used to manufacture the undertaking’s products and services (in- cluding packaging). The data in the table “Material Outflows” is based on estimates obtained from data that CTP collected on pre- viously completed buildings and extrapolated to cover the GFA completed in 2024. For these estimates, CTP cre- ated a sample of reports related to waste-related data under BREEAM certification. The base sample includes GFA of 489,291 sqm, where- as CTP completed 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. The sample data does not include a breakdown of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and only information on waste diverted from landfills can be shared. Due to the limit- ed data availability, extrapolation of the sample leads to inaccuracies in the reported figures. Considering the na- ture of CTP’s buildings, no radioactive waste can be ex- pected. The waste streams relevant to the sector in which CTP operates is related to construction materials, such as gypsum, plastics, packaging, and insulation. The na- ture of waste in the construction sector makes it recy- clable to a great extent. The 37% of waste diverted from landfill is underestimated due to limited data availability; improvement of this numbers is possible through better onsite waste management and improved data quality. Currently, the available data informs the percentage of waste diverted from landfill. Due to the nature of the waste, this can be considered as recycled, with the rest being non-recycled. The available data does not inform on whether waste is hazardous or non-hazardous. The type of buildings CTP constructs, mostly light indus- trial and logistics buildings, have an expected average du- rability of 50–60 years, in line with the industry average. Beyond CTP’s assurance provider, no other validation took place. 4.7.1.2.6 Financial effects of IROs relating to resource use and circular economy E5-6-41, E5-6-43 CTP’s 2024 DMA process did not identify any risks or op- portunities related to circular economy; therefore, CTP does not foresee a financial impact. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material topics, including impacts of doing business as usual."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 127 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 128 4.7.2 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being CTP’s ESG strategy pillar “Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being” contains all social-related material disclo- sures as identified in the Group’s 2024 DMA process, which indicate the following ESRS categories as material for the Company: S1 Own workforce S2 Workers in the value chain As confirmed by the 2024 DMA, CTP’s impact goes be- yond the parks and buildings that it develops, owns and operates. For more information on the results of the DMA, please refer to Section 4.7.4. CTP employs close to 900 of its own employees, with nearly 1,500 clients. Both within the Company and in the communities where it operates, CTP, in collaboration with its clients, local municipalities and NGOs, introduces and/ or supports activities that promote well-being, includ- ing charity donations targeting disadvantaged youth and other vulnerable members of society, support for educa- tion, and job retraining programs. See Section 4.7.2.1.13 for more details. 4.7.2.1 ESRS S1 – Own workforce 4.7.2.1.1 Interests and views of own employees S1 SBM-2-12 Employees were included as a main stakeholder group in CTP’s 2024 DMA, and their views and feedback were taken into consideration in the process of identifying ma- terial topics. CTP’s Employee Engagement Survey, which was launched in 2024 as a yearly process, is another mechanism for Group leadership to gain insight into the interests and views of its employees. Through these two processes, information that informs CTP’s strategy and business model is collected. CTP’s strategy and goal are to increase the GLA and thereby the business. This increases opportunities for and expansion of the workforce, strengthening the identi- fied positive impacts. See Section 7.3.1 for the complete overview of mate- rial ESRS S1 topics. 4.7.2.1.2 Impact of material IROs on strategy and business model S1 SBM-3-13, S1 SBM-3-14, S1 SBM-3-15, S1 SBM-3-16 The Company’s IROs relating to its workforce are con- sidered in strategic decisions and ideas related to CTP’s business model. The identified positive impacts are based on the current strategy of growth within the existing business model. The employee-related IROs described in Section 7.3.1 include all types of employees at CTP. The DMA did not identify negative impacts, risks, or opportunities. The majority of CTP employees are white collar em- ployees, working in project management, business devel- opment, permitting, and different support functions such as finance, HR, legal, and others. While analysing IROs for employees and non-employees are taken into account, these employees are considered to be impacted similarly. Employee recruitment and development risks and opportunities, secure employment, adequate wag- es, social dialogue, work-life balance, training and de- velopment, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, diversity, and measures against violence and harassment apply to all CTP employees, includ- ing non-employees, independent of position, age, or gender. More details about employee demographics can be found in Section 4.7.2.1.8. Health and safety aspects apply mainly to employees working on construction sites. At CTP, non-employees are self-employed people. Self-employed is defined as someone pursuing a gainful activity for their own account, under the conditions laid down by national law. This excludes those employees of other companies providing services to CTP."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 37 FIG. 3.3 COMPETITIVE LABOUR RATES Labour costs, Industrial & Logistics, €/hr, 2023 (in %) Source: Statista FIG. 3.2 RISING E-COMMERCE REVENUES Cumulative % growth in revenues since 2018 CEE avg. Western Europe avg. EU-27 avg. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 300% 250% 200% 150% 100% CAGR 18-29 = 7.8% CAGR 18-29 = 10.0% FIG. 3.1 ECONOMIC OUTPERFORMANCE Real GDP growth comparison, historic and outlook, CAGR% SK PL RO RS HU CZ 0 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 2.0% 2.5% 3.0% 3.5% 3.0% 2.5% 2.0% 1.5% 1.0% 0.5% 0 BG CAGR 2024-2029 Forecast CAGR 2008-2023 Transport/Storage Manufacturing BG RS RO PL HU SK CZ EU-27 avg. Western EU 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 EU-27 W. Europe Eurozone"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 38 FIG. 3.4 PERSONAL INCOME TAX RATES 2024 (in %) Denmark Finland Lithuania Bulgaria Serbia Estonia Sweden Germany Poland Croatia Spain Luxembourg Portugal Netherlands Ireland Malta EU-27 Greece CTP Portfolio Italy CEE Latvia Belgium France Austria Czech Republic Slovenia Romania Slovakia Cyprus 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 FIG. 3.5 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMIT TIME (DAYS), 2020 180 184 190 Source: World Bank 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Source: Trading Economics Bulgaria Romania Serbia Hungary CEE avg. Estonia Czech Republic Slovakia Croatia Lithuania Poland Latvia Cyprus Malta European Union Ireland Euro area Luxembourg Italy Greece France Germany Spain Netherlands Belgium Slovenia Sweden Austria Denmark Finland"
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 39 FIG. 3.6 EUROPEAN MARKET FUNDAMENTALS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Net Absorption (mil. of sqm) Net Completions (mil. of sqm) Vacancy Rate (in %) (mil. of sqm vs %) 30.0 25.0 20.0 15.0 10.0 5.0 0 8.0% 7.0% 6.0% 5.0% 4.0% 3.0% 2.0% 1.0% 0 Source: CBRE
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 40 3.2 Operational Performance While keeping its market-leading YoC above 10%, CTP was able to deliver yet another record year in 2024, with 1.3 million gross leasable area (“GLA”) delivered. LEASES SIGNED BY SQM Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY 2022 441,000 452,000 505,000 485,000 1,883,000 2023 297,000 552,000 585,000 542,000 1,976,000 2024 336,000 582,000 577,000 618,000 2,113,000 Increase +13% +5% -1% +14% +7% AVERAGE MONTHLY RENT LEASES SIGNED PER SQM (€) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY 2022 4.87 4.89 4.75 4.80 4.82 2023 5.31 5.56 5.77 5.81 5.69 2024 5.65 5.55 5.69 5.79 5.68 3.2.1 Leasing demand In line with its well-established model of growing main- ly with existing tenants in existing parks, in 2024 CTP signed around two-thirds of leases with existing clients totalling 2,113,000 sqm (2023: 1,976,000 sqm), with con- tracted annual rental income of €144 million and an aver- age monthly rent per sqm of €5.68 (2023: €5.69). CTP’s four Core markets—the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, and Slovakia—represent almost 73% of the Group’s total owned GLA. CTP’s average market share in those markets stood at 28.8% as at 31 Decem- ber 2024, and the Group remains the largest owner and developer of industrial and logistics real estate assets in each Core market. The Group is also the market leader in Serbia and Bulgaria. With over 1,000 clients, CTP has a wide and diversified international client base, consisting of blue-chip compa- nies with strong credit ratings. CTP’s clients represent a broad range of industries, including manufacturing, high- tech/IT, automotive, and e-commerce, retail, wholesale, and third-party logistics. This client base is highly di- versified, with no single client accounting for more than 2.5% of its annual rent roll, which leads to a stable income stream. CTP’s top 50 clients only account for 35.2% of its rent roll and most are in multiple CTPark locations."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 41 3.2.2 Standing portfolio CTP develops, owns and manages a high-quality portfo- lio of assets in over 250 locations. The Group increased its investment portfolio from 11.8 million sqm of owned GLA in 2023 to 13.3 million sqm at end-2024. Growth was mainly organic, with deliveries of 1.3 million sqm and the acquisition of 0.3 million sqm of value-add and in- come-producing assets. With its market-leading portfo- lio throughout continental Europe, the Group’s business generates strong cash flows. CTP can realise the highest incremental return with the development of new properties in our CTPark Network, as these are developed in-house, on land that it has already paid for and mostly for existing clients, which is why such deliveries are the main driver of the Company’s growth. The Group’s annualised income increased to €743 million (31 December 2023: €644 million), an increase year-on-year of 15%. An increasing proportion of the rental income gener- ated by CTP’s investment portfolio benefits from infla- tion protection. Since end-2019, all the Group’s new lease agreements include a double indexation clause, which cal- culates annual rental increases as the higher of: • a fixed increase of 1.5%–2.5% a year; or • the Consumer Price Index. As at 31 December 2024, 71% (31 December 2023: 66%) of income generated by the Group’s portfolio includes this double indexation clause, and the Group aims to in- crease this further. The remaining 29% of the portfolio has only a fixed increase of 1.5%–2.5% a year, and there- fore more reversionary potential built-in. The indexation takes place on 1 January of each year in the majority of the lease agreements. Therefore, the growth in rental in- come relating to 2024 inflation will only be recorded in the 2025. The Company’s occupancy stood at 93% at year-end (31 December 2023: 94%). CTP targets an occupancy rate around 95% with a few percentage points of va- cancy, as this flexibility is key to optimise client relation- ships and drive rental growth. CTP’s business model and strategy are focused on being a long-term business part- ner, to support existing clients to grow in their existing location or at another park within the CTPark Network. Some of CTP’s clients have already extended more than five times in their existing location. CTP therefore starts some developments before having secured pre-letting; however, this is concentrated in existing parks, where the Company has good visibility on future demand and deep market knowledge. This allows CTP to maintain a mar- ket-leading client retention rate of 87% (31 December 2023: 90%), which demonstrates CTP’s ability to lever- age long-standing client relationships. The rent collection level stabilised at 99.8% (31 De- cember 2023: 99.9%), with no deterioration in the pay- ment profile. In 2024, CTP realised a like-for-like growth of 4.0%, mainly driven by reversion and indexation. Countries with the highest like-for-like rental growth were Slovakia and Poland. The weighted average unexpired lease term (“WAULT”) of CTP’s investment portfolio stood at 6.4 years at the period end (31 December 2023: 6.6 years), in line with the Company’s target of >6 years. The reversionary potential stands at 14.5% as at 31 December 2024 (31 December 2023: 14.5%), illustrat- ing the future rental growth potential. The Group has the highest reversionary potential in the Germany with 25.9%. Based on the expiry schedule, the Group is expected to be able to capture more than 28% of the reversionary potential in the coming five years. During 2024, leases, on average, were signed above their estimated rental val- ue (“ERV”), supporting both the Group’s reversionary po- tential and valuations."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 124 4.7.1.2 ESRS E5 – Material Resource Use and Circular Economy 4.7.1.2.1 Material IROs relating to material resource use and circular economy E5-IRO-1-11 As part of the 2024 DMA, material resource use and cir- cular economy (ESRS E5) was identified as a material top- ic, applicable to all business units and assets considering the development, construction, and operational phases of these assets. The IROs mentioned in this section of the report are based on a business-as-usual scenario. If CTP does not act on these IROs, there is a potential increase in construction cost. CTP’s 2024 DMA process identified the following cir- cular economy ESRS sub-topics as material: E5 – Resource use and circular economy Waste Resource inflows, including resource use Summary • Only actual negative impacts, and no risks or oppor- tunities, have been identified. Resource inflows and outflows are resources related to CTP’s construction activities. • No related risks and opportunities were identified. • The following materials are used by CTP as part of its business activities and prioritised in this order: 1) steel/iron; 2) concrete and related products; and 3) asphalt. • Affected communities were not identified for this topic. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or compulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material top- ics, including impacts of doing business as usual. 4.7.1.2.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5-1-12, E5-1-14, E5-ESRS-2-62 Waste management is part of CTP’s Environmental Pol- icy. The policy’s objective is to create a systemised ap- proach towards environmental matters and propose rel- evant actions. The policy applies to CTP’s own operations and activities, including incorporating waste manage- ment practices into its construction activities, and cli- ents are not required to comply. The waste hierarchy is not addressed in the current version of the policy, nor are other material matters such as transitioning away from use of virgin resources or sustainable sourcing. CTP plans to revise Environmental Policy in 2025 to develop section concerning waste and materials inflow. The Board of Di- rectors is responsible and accountable for implementing the policy. The ISO 14001 and 50001 management systems are part of the policy, and key stakeholders are considered in the policy. CTP’s Environmental Policy can be found on the Com- pany’s website. CTP also has internal waste management require- ments, which include requirements for new construction and refurbishments. CTP has yet to develop policies related to resource inflows."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 125 4.7.1.2.4 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3-21, E5-3-23, E5-ESRS-2-72 CTP generates a significant amount of waste during its construction activities. The Company has set a voluntary target related to waste management: increase the im- plementation of selective waste collection to 95% of all its construction activities by 2030, compared to 45% in 2023. This target applies to its own projects, independ- ent of location, size, or building type. The progress on this target is measured on an annual basis, through external reporting. This target promotes the reduction of the amount of waste going to landfill and has been formu- lated this way taking into account the maturity of waste handling systems in different countries and locations where CTP operates (stakeholders, such as suppliers and local teams, have been taken into account). For this reason, bearing in mind the limitations stem- ming from it, CTP decided to first focus on the promo- tion of waste-handling practices that allow for the re- use and recycling of materials. It is expected to support progress in waste management, allowing CTP to set up further targets in the future. CTP indirectly addresses the increase of circular materi- al use rate and the minimisation of primary raw materi- als. This is done through the embodied emissions reduc- tion target. CTP has not yet developed targets related to re- source inflows and circular economy. CTP is considering the development of targets, but has set no timeline. CTP tracks the effectiveness of its policies through internal processes, in which management and senior manage- ment are involved. 4.7.1.2.3 Actions and recourses E5-2-17, E5-2-19, E5-ESRS-2-62 Selective waste collection, which includes recycling, is an integral part of the BREEAM New Construction certi- fication process for CTP’s buildings. These actions are ongoing. Through their implementation, CTP expects to increase waste diverted from landfills, i.e., increasing re- cycling and reuse rates. This action is planned to assist CTP in achieving its 2030 target, as explained in Section 4.7.1.2.4. Actions will be further developed in the future. Additionally, CTP implements requirements for its con- struction and refurbishment activities to obtain EU tax- onomy alignment that include waste management. CTP considers CapEx and OpEx related to these ac- tions as part of business as usual. The resources allocated to managing material im- pacts are considered part of normal business operations. CTP is currently collecting data on the inflow of ma- terials, which will enable the creation of informed actions. CIRCULAR ECONOMY TARGETS Base Year (2023) 2024 2030 Target Selective waste collection construction activities (share of projects) 21% 56% 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 126 MATERIAL INFLOWS Material Material inflow (t) Material inflow (t) (%) Steel/iron 433,914 10% Concrete and related products 3,547,333 86% Asphalt 153,878 4% Total 4,135,125 100% Biological materials N/A MATERIAL OUTFLOWS Total Amount of Waste generated during construction/sqm Waste diverted from landfill (recycled) Percenage of waste diverted from landfill (recycled) 8,416.97 3,103.19 37% 4.7.1.2.5 Resource inflows and outflows E5-4-28, E5-4-30, E5-4-31, E5-4-32, E5-5-33, E5-5-35, E5-5-36, E5-5-37, E5-5-38, E5-5-39, E5-5-40 The data in the table “Material Inflows” is based on es- timates obtained from data that CTP collected from completed buildings and extrapolated to cover 100% of the gross floor area (“GFA”) completed in 2024. The base sample includes GFA of 485,277 sqm, whereas CTP com- pleted 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. As part of the BREEAM certification process, CTP received data on materials used in its buildings. As data is delivered in different metrics (cubic metre, sqm, or kg), CTP has made use of the information received in kg to cal- culate the reported numbers. CTP’s material inflow is related to building materials used in the construction process. Among others, impor- tant materials are steel, concrete, asphalt, and the water used in the process. CTP uses these materials as provid- ed by suppliers to construct its buildings. Some materi- als, such as steel and concrete, include recycled content. After completing the building lifecycle, a share of materi- als used in buildings can be reused or recycled. CTP has no available data related to biological materi- als or the weight in both absolute value and percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products, and secondary materials used to manufacture the undertaking’s products and services (in- cluding packaging). The data in the table “Material Outflows” is based on estimates obtained from data that CTP collected on pre- viously completed buildings and extrapolated to cover the GFA completed in 2024. For these estimates, CTP cre- ated a sample of reports related to waste-related data under BREEAM certification. The base sample includes GFA of 489,291 sqm, where- as CTP completed 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. The sample data does not include a breakdown of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and only information on waste diverted from landfills can be shared. Due to the limit- ed data availability, extrapolation of the sample leads to inaccuracies in the reported figures. Considering the na- ture of CTP’s buildings, no radioactive waste can be ex- pected. The waste streams relevant to the sector in which CTP operates is related to construction materials, such as gypsum, plastics, packaging, and insulation. The na- ture of waste in the construction sector makes it recy- clable to a great extent. The 37% of waste diverted from landfill is underestimated due to limited data availability; improvement of this numbers is possible through better onsite waste management and improved data quality. Currently, the available data informs the percentage of waste diverted from landfill. Due to the nature of the waste, this can be considered as recycled, with the rest being non-recycled. The available data does not inform on whether waste is hazardous or non-hazardous. The type of buildings CTP constructs, mostly light indus- trial and logistics buildings, have an expected average du- rability of 50–60 years, in line with the industry average. Beyond CTP’s assurance provider, no other validation took place. 4.7.1.2.6 Financial effects of IROs relating to resource use and circular economy E5-6-41, E5-6-43 CTP’s 2024 DMA process did not identify any risks or op- portunities related to circular economy; therefore, CTP does not foresee a financial impact. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material topics, including impacts of doing business as usual."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 127 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 128 4.7.2 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being CTP’s ESG strategy pillar “Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being” contains all social-related material disclo- sures as identified in the Group’s 2024 DMA process, which indicate the following ESRS categories as material for the Company: S1 Own workforce S2 Workers in the value chain As confirmed by the 2024 DMA, CTP’s impact goes be- yond the parks and buildings that it develops, owns and operates. For more information on the results of the DMA, please refer to Section 4.7.4. CTP employs close to 900 of its own employees, with nearly 1,500 clients. Both within the Company and in the communities where it operates, CTP, in collaboration with its clients, local municipalities and NGOs, introduces and/ or supports activities that promote well-being, includ- ing charity donations targeting disadvantaged youth and other vulnerable members of society, support for educa- tion, and job retraining programs. See Section 4.7.2.1.13 for more details. 4.7.2.1 ESRS S1 – Own workforce 4.7.2.1.1 Interests and views of own employees S1 SBM-2-12 Employees were included as a main stakeholder group in CTP’s 2024 DMA, and their views and feedback were taken into consideration in the process of identifying ma- terial topics. CTP’s Employee Engagement Survey, which was launched in 2024 as a yearly process, is another mechanism for Group leadership to gain insight into the interests and views of its employees. Through these two processes, information that informs CTP’s strategy and business model is collected. CTP’s strategy and goal are to increase the GLA and thereby the business. This increases opportunities for and expansion of the workforce, strengthening the identi- fied positive impacts. See Section 7.3.1 for the complete overview of mate- rial ESRS S1 topics. 4.7.2.1.2 Impact of material IROs on strategy and business model S1 SBM-3-13, S1 SBM-3-14, S1 SBM-3-15, S1 SBM-3-16 The Company’s IROs relating to its workforce are con- sidered in strategic decisions and ideas related to CTP’s business model. The identified positive impacts are based on the current strategy of growth within the existing business model. The employee-related IROs described in Section 7.3.1 include all types of employees at CTP. The DMA did not identify negative impacts, risks, or opportunities. The majority of CTP employees are white collar em- ployees, working in project management, business devel- opment, permitting, and different support functions such as finance, HR, legal, and others. While analysing IROs for employees and non-employees are taken into account, these employees are considered to be impacted similarly. Employee recruitment and development risks and opportunities, secure employment, adequate wag- es, social dialogue, work-life balance, training and de- velopment, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, diversity, and measures against violence and harassment apply to all CTP employees, includ- ing non-employees, independent of position, age, or gender. More details about employee demographics can be found in Section 4.7.2.1.8. Health and safety aspects apply mainly to employees working on construction sites. At CTP, non-employees are self-employed people. Self-employed is defined as someone pursuing a gainful activity for their own account, under the conditions laid down by national law. This excludes those employees of other companies providing services to CTP."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 38 FIG. 3.4 PERSONAL INCOME TAX RATES 2024 (in %) Denmark Finland Lithuania Bulgaria Serbia Estonia Sweden Germany Poland Croatia Spain Luxembourg Portugal Netherlands Ireland Malta EU-27 Greece CTP Portfolio Italy CEE Latvia Belgium France Austria Czech Republic Slovenia Romania Slovakia Cyprus 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 FIG. 3.5 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMIT TIME (DAYS), 2020 180 184 190 Source: World Bank 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Source: Trading Economics Bulgaria Romania Serbia Hungary CEE avg. Estonia Czech Republic Slovakia Croatia Lithuania Poland Latvia Cyprus Malta European Union Ireland Euro area Luxembourg Italy Greece France Germany Spain Netherlands Belgium Slovenia Sweden Austria Denmark Finland"
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 39 FIG. 3.6 EUROPEAN MARKET FUNDAMENTALS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Net Absorption (mil. of sqm) Net Completions (mil. of sqm) Vacancy Rate (in %) (mil. of sqm vs %) 30.0 25.0 20.0 15.0 10.0 5.0 0 8.0% 7.0% 6.0% 5.0% 4.0% 3.0% 2.0% 1.0% 0 Source: CBRE
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 40 3.2 Operational Performance While keeping its market-leading YoC above 10%, CTP was able to deliver yet another record year in 2024, with 1.3 million gross leasable area (“GLA”) delivered. LEASES SIGNED BY SQM Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY 2022 441,000 452,000 505,000 485,000 1,883,000 2023 297,000 552,000 585,000 542,000 1,976,000 2024 336,000 582,000 577,000 618,000 2,113,000 Increase +13% +5% -1% +14% +7% AVERAGE MONTHLY RENT LEASES SIGNED PER SQM (€) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY 2022 4.87 4.89 4.75 4.80 4.82 2023 5.31 5.56 5.77 5.81 5.69 2024 5.65 5.55 5.69 5.79 5.68 3.2.1 Leasing demand In line with its well-established model of growing main- ly with existing tenants in existing parks, in 2024 CTP signed around two-thirds of leases with existing clients totalling 2,113,000 sqm (2023: 1,976,000 sqm), with con- tracted annual rental income of €144 million and an aver- age monthly rent per sqm of €5.68 (2023: €5.69). CTP’s four Core markets—the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, and Slovakia—represent almost 73% of the Group’s total owned GLA. CTP’s average market share in those markets stood at 28.8% as at 31 Decem- ber 2024, and the Group remains the largest owner and developer of industrial and logistics real estate assets in each Core market. The Group is also the market leader in Serbia and Bulgaria. With over 1,000 clients, CTP has a wide and diversified international client base, consisting of blue-chip compa- nies with strong credit ratings. CTP’s clients represent a broad range of industries, including manufacturing, high- tech/IT, automotive, and e-commerce, retail, wholesale, and third-party logistics. This client base is highly di- versified, with no single client accounting for more than 2.5% of its annual rent roll, which leads to a stable income stream. CTP’s top 50 clients only account for 35.2% of its rent roll and most are in multiple CTPark locations."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 41 3.2.2 Standing portfolio CTP develops, owns and manages a high-quality portfo- lio of assets in over 250 locations. The Group increased its investment portfolio from 11.8 million sqm of owned GLA in 2023 to 13.3 million sqm at end-2024. Growth was mainly organic, with deliveries of 1.3 million sqm and the acquisition of 0.3 million sqm of value-add and in- come-producing assets. With its market-leading portfo- lio throughout continental Europe, the Group’s business generates strong cash flows. CTP can realise the highest incremental return with the development of new properties in our CTPark Network, as these are developed in-house, on land that it has already paid for and mostly for existing clients, which is why such deliveries are the main driver of the Company’s growth. The Group’s annualised income increased to €743 million (31 December 2023: €644 million), an increase year-on-year of 15%. An increasing proportion of the rental income gener- ated by CTP’s investment portfolio benefits from infla- tion protection. Since end-2019, all the Group’s new lease agreements include a double indexation clause, which cal- culates annual rental increases as the higher of: • a fixed increase of 1.5%–2.5% a year; or • the Consumer Price Index. As at 31 December 2024, 71% (31 December 2023: 66%) of income generated by the Group’s portfolio includes this double indexation clause, and the Group aims to in- crease this further. The remaining 29% of the portfolio has only a fixed increase of 1.5%–2.5% a year, and there- fore more reversionary potential built-in. The indexation takes place on 1 January of each year in the majority of the lease agreements. Therefore, the growth in rental in- come relating to 2024 inflation will only be recorded in the 2025. The Company’s occupancy stood at 93% at year-end (31 December 2023: 94%). CTP targets an occupancy rate around 95% with a few percentage points of va- cancy, as this flexibility is key to optimise client relation- ships and drive rental growth. CTP’s business model and strategy are focused on being a long-term business part- ner, to support existing clients to grow in their existing location or at another park within the CTPark Network. Some of CTP’s clients have already extended more than five times in their existing location. CTP therefore starts some developments before having secured pre-letting; however, this is concentrated in existing parks, where the Company has good visibility on future demand and deep market knowledge. This allows CTP to maintain a mar- ket-leading client retention rate of 87% (31 December 2023: 90%), which demonstrates CTP’s ability to lever- age long-standing client relationships. The rent collection level stabilised at 99.8% (31 De- cember 2023: 99.9%), with no deterioration in the pay- ment profile. In 2024, CTP realised a like-for-like growth of 4.0%, mainly driven by reversion and indexation. Countries with the highest like-for-like rental growth were Slovakia and Poland. The weighted average unexpired lease term (“WAULT”) of CTP’s investment portfolio stood at 6.4 years at the period end (31 December 2023: 6.6 years), in line with the Company’s target of >6 years. The reversionary potential stands at 14.5% as at 31 December 2024 (31 December 2023: 14.5%), illustrat- ing the future rental growth potential. The Group has the highest reversionary potential in the Germany with 25.9%. Based on the expiry schedule, the Group is expected to be able to capture more than 28% of the reversionary potential in the coming five years. During 2024, leases, on average, were signed above their estimated rental val- ue (“ERV”), supporting both the Group’s reversionary po- tential and valuations."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 42 FIG. 3.7 GLA (‘000s sqm) 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 7,617 10,467 5,882 5,100 4,600 11,790 13,330 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 29% 28% 27% 26% 25% 24% 23% 22% 27.5% 23.9% 24.2% 27.8% 27.4% 28.8% FIG. 3.8 CTP MARKET SHARE EVOLUTION OF IN-PLACE GLA, (CORE MARKETS *) (in %) * CZ, RO, HU, SK Source: CBRE 14,000 13,000 12,000 11,000 10,000 9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 FIG. 3.9 GROWTH OF GLA 2021 – 2024 700 846 357 1,647 10,467 13,330 11,790 7,617 19 573 948 226 397 2021 YE Core market Expansion Western 2022 YE Core market Expansion Western 2023 YE Core market Expansion Western 2024 YE (‘000 sqm)"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 124 4.7.1.2 ESRS E5 – Material Resource Use and Circular Economy 4.7.1.2.1 Material IROs relating to material resource use and circular economy E5-IRO-1-11 As part of the 2024 DMA, material resource use and cir- cular economy (ESRS E5) was identified as a material top- ic, applicable to all business units and assets considering the development, construction, and operational phases of these assets. The IROs mentioned in this section of the report are based on a business-as-usual scenario. If CTP does not act on these IROs, there is a potential increase in construction cost. CTP’s 2024 DMA process identified the following cir- cular economy ESRS sub-topics as material: E5 – Resource use and circular economy Waste Resource inflows, including resource use Summary • Only actual negative impacts, and no risks or oppor- tunities, have been identified. Resource inflows and outflows are resources related to CTP’s construction activities. • No related risks and opportunities were identified. • The following materials are used by CTP as part of its business activities and prioritised in this order: 1) steel/iron; 2) concrete and related products; and 3) asphalt. • Affected communities were not identified for this topic. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or compulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material top- ics, including impacts of doing business as usual. 4.7.1.2.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5-1-12, E5-1-14, E5-ESRS-2-62 Waste management is part of CTP’s Environmental Pol- icy. The policy’s objective is to create a systemised ap- proach towards environmental matters and propose rel- evant actions. The policy applies to CTP’s own operations and activities, including incorporating waste manage- ment practices into its construction activities, and cli- ents are not required to comply. The waste hierarchy is not addressed in the current version of the policy, nor are other material matters such as transitioning away from use of virgin resources or sustainable sourcing. CTP plans to revise Environmental Policy in 2025 to develop section concerning waste and materials inflow. The Board of Di- rectors is responsible and accountable for implementing the policy. The ISO 14001 and 50001 management systems are part of the policy, and key stakeholders are considered in the policy. CTP’s Environmental Policy can be found on the Com- pany’s website. CTP also has internal waste management require- ments, which include requirements for new construction and refurbishments. CTP has yet to develop policies related to resource inflows."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 125 4.7.1.2.4 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3-21, E5-3-23, E5-ESRS-2-72 CTP generates a significant amount of waste during its construction activities. The Company has set a voluntary target related to waste management: increase the im- plementation of selective waste collection to 95% of all its construction activities by 2030, compared to 45% in 2023. This target applies to its own projects, independ- ent of location, size, or building type. The progress on this target is measured on an annual basis, through external reporting. This target promotes the reduction of the amount of waste going to landfill and has been formu- lated this way taking into account the maturity of waste handling systems in different countries and locations where CTP operates (stakeholders, such as suppliers and local teams, have been taken into account). For this reason, bearing in mind the limitations stem- ming from it, CTP decided to first focus on the promo- tion of waste-handling practices that allow for the re- use and recycling of materials. It is expected to support progress in waste management, allowing CTP to set up further targets in the future. CTP indirectly addresses the increase of circular materi- al use rate and the minimisation of primary raw materi- als. This is done through the embodied emissions reduc- tion target. CTP has not yet developed targets related to re- source inflows and circular economy. CTP is considering the development of targets, but has set no timeline. CTP tracks the effectiveness of its policies through internal processes, in which management and senior manage- ment are involved. 4.7.1.2.3 Actions and recourses E5-2-17, E5-2-19, E5-ESRS-2-62 Selective waste collection, which includes recycling, is an integral part of the BREEAM New Construction certi- fication process for CTP’s buildings. These actions are ongoing. Through their implementation, CTP expects to increase waste diverted from landfills, i.e., increasing re- cycling and reuse rates. This action is planned to assist CTP in achieving its 2030 target, as explained in Section 4.7.1.2.4. Actions will be further developed in the future. Additionally, CTP implements requirements for its con- struction and refurbishment activities to obtain EU tax- onomy alignment that include waste management. CTP considers CapEx and OpEx related to these ac- tions as part of business as usual. The resources allocated to managing material im- pacts are considered part of normal business operations. CTP is currently collecting data on the inflow of ma- terials, which will enable the creation of informed actions. CIRCULAR ECONOMY TARGETS Base Year (2023) 2024 2030 Target Selective waste collection construction activities (share of projects) 21% 56% 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 126 MATERIAL INFLOWS Material Material inflow (t) Material inflow (t) (%) Steel/iron 433,914 10% Concrete and related products 3,547,333 86% Asphalt 153,878 4% Total 4,135,125 100% Biological materials N/A MATERIAL OUTFLOWS Total Amount of Waste generated during construction/sqm Waste diverted from landfill (recycled) Percenage of waste diverted from landfill (recycled) 8,416.97 3,103.19 37% 4.7.1.2.5 Resource inflows and outflows E5-4-28, E5-4-30, E5-4-31, E5-4-32, E5-5-33, E5-5-35, E5-5-36, E5-5-37, E5-5-38, E5-5-39, E5-5-40 The data in the table “Material Inflows” is based on es- timates obtained from data that CTP collected from completed buildings and extrapolated to cover 100% of the gross floor area (“GFA”) completed in 2024. The base sample includes GFA of 485,277 sqm, whereas CTP com- pleted 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. As part of the BREEAM certification process, CTP received data on materials used in its buildings. As data is delivered in different metrics (cubic metre, sqm, or kg), CTP has made use of the information received in kg to cal- culate the reported numbers. CTP’s material inflow is related to building materials used in the construction process. Among others, impor- tant materials are steel, concrete, asphalt, and the water used in the process. CTP uses these materials as provid- ed by suppliers to construct its buildings. Some materi- als, such as steel and concrete, include recycled content. After completing the building lifecycle, a share of materi- als used in buildings can be reused or recycled. CTP has no available data related to biological materi- als or the weight in both absolute value and percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products, and secondary materials used to manufacture the undertaking’s products and services (in- cluding packaging). The data in the table “Material Outflows” is based on estimates obtained from data that CTP collected on pre- viously completed buildings and extrapolated to cover the GFA completed in 2024. For these estimates, CTP cre- ated a sample of reports related to waste-related data under BREEAM certification. The base sample includes GFA of 489,291 sqm, where- as CTP completed 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. The sample data does not include a breakdown of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and only information on waste diverted from landfills can be shared. Due to the limit- ed data availability, extrapolation of the sample leads to inaccuracies in the reported figures. Considering the na- ture of CTP’s buildings, no radioactive waste can be ex- pected. The waste streams relevant to the sector in which CTP operates is related to construction materials, such as gypsum, plastics, packaging, and insulation. The na- ture of waste in the construction sector makes it recy- clable to a great extent. The 37% of waste diverted from landfill is underestimated due to limited data availability; improvement of this numbers is possible through better onsite waste management and improved data quality. Currently, the available data informs the percentage of waste diverted from landfill. Due to the nature of the waste, this can be considered as recycled, with the rest being non-recycled. The available data does not inform on whether waste is hazardous or non-hazardous. The type of buildings CTP constructs, mostly light indus- trial and logistics buildings, have an expected average du- rability of 50–60 years, in line with the industry average. Beyond CTP’s assurance provider, no other validation took place. 4.7.1.2.6 Financial effects of IROs relating to resource use and circular economy E5-6-41, E5-6-43 CTP’s 2024 DMA process did not identify any risks or op- portunities related to circular economy; therefore, CTP does not foresee a financial impact. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material topics, including impacts of doing business as usual."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 127 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 128 4.7.2 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being CTP’s ESG strategy pillar “Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being” contains all social-related material disclo- sures as identified in the Group’s 2024 DMA process, which indicate the following ESRS categories as material for the Company: S1 Own workforce S2 Workers in the value chain As confirmed by the 2024 DMA, CTP’s impact goes be- yond the parks and buildings that it develops, owns and operates. For more information on the results of the DMA, please refer to Section 4.7.4. CTP employs close to 900 of its own employees, with nearly 1,500 clients. Both within the Company and in the communities where it operates, CTP, in collaboration with its clients, local municipalities and NGOs, introduces and/ or supports activities that promote well-being, includ- ing charity donations targeting disadvantaged youth and other vulnerable members of society, support for educa- tion, and job retraining programs. See Section 4.7.2.1.13 for more details. 4.7.2.1 ESRS S1 – Own workforce 4.7.2.1.1 Interests and views of own employees S1 SBM-2-12 Employees were included as a main stakeholder group in CTP’s 2024 DMA, and their views and feedback were taken into consideration in the process of identifying ma- terial topics. CTP’s Employee Engagement Survey, which was launched in 2024 as a yearly process, is another mechanism for Group leadership to gain insight into the interests and views of its employees. Through these two processes, information that informs CTP’s strategy and business model is collected. CTP’s strategy and goal are to increase the GLA and thereby the business. This increases opportunities for and expansion of the workforce, strengthening the identi- fied positive impacts. See Section 7.3.1 for the complete overview of mate- rial ESRS S1 topics. 4.7.2.1.2 Impact of material IROs on strategy and business model S1 SBM-3-13, S1 SBM-3-14, S1 SBM-3-15, S1 SBM-3-16 The Company’s IROs relating to its workforce are con- sidered in strategic decisions and ideas related to CTP’s business model. The identified positive impacts are based on the current strategy of growth within the existing business model. The employee-related IROs described in Section 7.3.1 include all types of employees at CTP. The DMA did not identify negative impacts, risks, or opportunities. The majority of CTP employees are white collar em- ployees, working in project management, business devel- opment, permitting, and different support functions such as finance, HR, legal, and others. While analysing IROs for employees and non-employees are taken into account, these employees are considered to be impacted similarly. Employee recruitment and development risks and opportunities, secure employment, adequate wag- es, social dialogue, work-life balance, training and de- velopment, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, diversity, and measures against violence and harassment apply to all CTP employees, includ- ing non-employees, independent of position, age, or gender. More details about employee demographics can be found in Section 4.7.2.1.8. Health and safety aspects apply mainly to employees working on construction sites. At CTP, non-employees are self-employed people. Self-employed is defined as someone pursuing a gainful activity for their own account, under the conditions laid down by national law. This excludes those employees of other companies providing services to CTP."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 39 FIG. 3.6 EUROPEAN MARKET FUNDAMENTALS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Net Absorption (mil. of sqm) Net Completions (mil. of sqm) Vacancy Rate (in %) (mil. of sqm vs %) 30.0 25.0 20.0 15.0 10.0 5.0 0 8.0% 7.0% 6.0% 5.0% 4.0% 3.0% 2.0% 1.0% 0 Source: CBRE
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 40 3.2 Operational Performance While keeping its market-leading YoC above 10%, CTP was able to deliver yet another record year in 2024, with 1.3 million gross leasable area (“GLA”) delivered. LEASES SIGNED BY SQM Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY 2022 441,000 452,000 505,000 485,000 1,883,000 2023 297,000 552,000 585,000 542,000 1,976,000 2024 336,000 582,000 577,000 618,000 2,113,000 Increase +13% +5% -1% +14% +7% AVERAGE MONTHLY RENT LEASES SIGNED PER SQM (€) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY 2022 4.87 4.89 4.75 4.80 4.82 2023 5.31 5.56 5.77 5.81 5.69 2024 5.65 5.55 5.69 5.79 5.68 3.2.1 Leasing demand In line with its well-established model of growing main- ly with existing tenants in existing parks, in 2024 CTP signed around two-thirds of leases with existing clients totalling 2,113,000 sqm (2023: 1,976,000 sqm), with con- tracted annual rental income of €144 million and an aver- age monthly rent per sqm of €5.68 (2023: €5.69). CTP’s four Core markets—the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, and Slovakia—represent almost 73% of the Group’s total owned GLA. CTP’s average market share in those markets stood at 28.8% as at 31 Decem- ber 2024, and the Group remains the largest owner and developer of industrial and logistics real estate assets in each Core market. The Group is also the market leader in Serbia and Bulgaria. With over 1,000 clients, CTP has a wide and diversified international client base, consisting of blue-chip compa- nies with strong credit ratings. CTP’s clients represent a broad range of industries, including manufacturing, high- tech/IT, automotive, and e-commerce, retail, wholesale, and third-party logistics. This client base is highly di- versified, with no single client accounting for more than 2.5% of its annual rent roll, which leads to a stable income stream. CTP’s top 50 clients only account for 35.2% of its rent roll and most are in multiple CTPark locations."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 41 3.2.2 Standing portfolio CTP develops, owns and manages a high-quality portfo- lio of assets in over 250 locations. The Group increased its investment portfolio from 11.8 million sqm of owned GLA in 2023 to 13.3 million sqm at end-2024. Growth was mainly organic, with deliveries of 1.3 million sqm and the acquisition of 0.3 million sqm of value-add and in- come-producing assets. With its market-leading portfo- lio throughout continental Europe, the Group’s business generates strong cash flows. CTP can realise the highest incremental return with the development of new properties in our CTPark Network, as these are developed in-house, on land that it has already paid for and mostly for existing clients, which is why such deliveries are the main driver of the Company’s growth. The Group’s annualised income increased to €743 million (31 December 2023: €644 million), an increase year-on-year of 15%. An increasing proportion of the rental income gener- ated by CTP’s investment portfolio benefits from infla- tion protection. Since end-2019, all the Group’s new lease agreements include a double indexation clause, which cal- culates annual rental increases as the higher of: • a fixed increase of 1.5%–2.5% a year; or • the Consumer Price Index. As at 31 December 2024, 71% (31 December 2023: 66%) of income generated by the Group’s portfolio includes this double indexation clause, and the Group aims to in- crease this further. The remaining 29% of the portfolio has only a fixed increase of 1.5%–2.5% a year, and there- fore more reversionary potential built-in. The indexation takes place on 1 January of each year in the majority of the lease agreements. Therefore, the growth in rental in- come relating to 2024 inflation will only be recorded in the 2025. The Company’s occupancy stood at 93% at year-end (31 December 2023: 94%). CTP targets an occupancy rate around 95% with a few percentage points of va- cancy, as this flexibility is key to optimise client relation- ships and drive rental growth. CTP’s business model and strategy are focused on being a long-term business part- ner, to support existing clients to grow in their existing location or at another park within the CTPark Network. Some of CTP’s clients have already extended more than five times in their existing location. CTP therefore starts some developments before having secured pre-letting; however, this is concentrated in existing parks, where the Company has good visibility on future demand and deep market knowledge. This allows CTP to maintain a mar- ket-leading client retention rate of 87% (31 December 2023: 90%), which demonstrates CTP’s ability to lever- age long-standing client relationships. The rent collection level stabilised at 99.8% (31 De- cember 2023: 99.9%), with no deterioration in the pay- ment profile. In 2024, CTP realised a like-for-like growth of 4.0%, mainly driven by reversion and indexation. Countries with the highest like-for-like rental growth were Slovakia and Poland. The weighted average unexpired lease term (“WAULT”) of CTP’s investment portfolio stood at 6.4 years at the period end (31 December 2023: 6.6 years), in line with the Company’s target of >6 years. The reversionary potential stands at 14.5% as at 31 December 2024 (31 December 2023: 14.5%), illustrat- ing the future rental growth potential. The Group has the highest reversionary potential in the Germany with 25.9%. Based on the expiry schedule, the Group is expected to be able to capture more than 28% of the reversionary potential in the coming five years. During 2024, leases, on average, were signed above their estimated rental val- ue (“ERV”), supporting both the Group’s reversionary po- tential and valuations."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 42 FIG. 3.7 GLA (‘000s sqm) 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 7,617 10,467 5,882 5,100 4,600 11,790 13,330 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 29% 28% 27% 26% 25% 24% 23% 22% 27.5% 23.9% 24.2% 27.8% 27.4% 28.8% FIG. 3.8 CTP MARKET SHARE EVOLUTION OF IN-PLACE GLA, (CORE MARKETS *) (in %) * CZ, RO, HU, SK Source: CBRE 14,000 13,000 12,000 11,000 10,000 9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 FIG. 3.9 GROWTH OF GLA 2021 – 2024 700 846 357 1,647 10,467 13,330 11,790 7,617 19 573 948 226 397 2021 YE Core market Expansion Western 2022 YE Core market Expansion Western 2023 YE Core market Expansion Western 2024 YE (‘000 sqm)"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Business Environment & 2024 Performance 43 FIG. 3.11 OCCUPANCY (in %) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 95% 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 94% 94% 95% 95% 94% 93% FIG. 3.10 CTP MARKET SHARE OF TAKE-UP (LAST FOUR QUARTERS, CORE MARKETS*) (in %) * CZ, RO, HU, SK Source: CBRE Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2024 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0 32.1% 38.0% 30.3% 27.6% FIG. 3.12 CLIENT RETENTION (in %) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 90% 92% 83% 86% 90% 87% 92% (€ million) 1 No ERV growth assumed, only reversion to current ERVs. Figures may not add up due to rounding. FIG. 3.14 COLLECTION RATE (in %) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 99.7% 98.5% 99.2% 99.8% 99.9% 99.8% 99.4% FIG. 3.13 ANNUALIZED RENT POTENTIAL Annualized rent 31/12/2024 Reversion 2025-2027 (14.5%)1 Future deliveries Annualized rent short-term Reversion (14.5%)1 20 million GLA in 202X Potential long-term annualized rent 0 743 142 21 53 15 >1,000 >1,200 96 Medium short-term Short-term Full landbank development Completions of existing pipeline Indexation 2025-2027 Filling up vacancy to 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 124 4.7.1.2 ESRS E5 – Material Resource Use and Circular Economy 4.7.1.2.1 Material IROs relating to material resource use and circular economy E5-IRO-1-11 As part of the 2024 DMA, material resource use and cir- cular economy (ESRS E5) was identified as a material top- ic, applicable to all business units and assets considering the development, construction, and operational phases of these assets. The IROs mentioned in this section of the report are based on a business-as-usual scenario. If CTP does not act on these IROs, there is a potential increase in construction cost. CTP’s 2024 DMA process identified the following cir- cular economy ESRS sub-topics as material: E5 – Resource use and circular economy Waste Resource inflows, including resource use Summary • Only actual negative impacts, and no risks or oppor- tunities, have been identified. Resource inflows and outflows are resources related to CTP’s construction activities. • No related risks and opportunities were identified. • The following materials are used by CTP as part of its business activities and prioritised in this order: 1) steel/iron; 2) concrete and related products; and 3) asphalt. • Affected communities were not identified for this topic. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or compulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material top- ics, including impacts of doing business as usual. 4.7.1.2.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5-1-12, E5-1-14, E5-ESRS-2-62 Waste management is part of CTP’s Environmental Pol- icy. The policy’s objective is to create a systemised ap- proach towards environmental matters and propose rel- evant actions. The policy applies to CTP’s own operations and activities, including incorporating waste manage- ment practices into its construction activities, and cli- ents are not required to comply. The waste hierarchy is not addressed in the current version of the policy, nor are other material matters such as transitioning away from use of virgin resources or sustainable sourcing. CTP plans to revise Environmental Policy in 2025 to develop section concerning waste and materials inflow. The Board of Di- rectors is responsible and accountable for implementing the policy. The ISO 14001 and 50001 management systems are part of the policy, and key stakeholders are considered in the policy. CTP’s Environmental Policy can be found on the Com- pany’s website. CTP also has internal waste management require- ments, which include requirements for new construction and refurbishments. CTP has yet to develop policies related to resource inflows."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 125 4.7.1.2.4 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3-21, E5-3-23, E5-ESRS-2-72 CTP generates a significant amount of waste during its construction activities. The Company has set a voluntary target related to waste management: increase the im- plementation of selective waste collection to 95% of all its construction activities by 2030, compared to 45% in 2023. This target applies to its own projects, independ- ent of location, size, or building type. The progress on this target is measured on an annual basis, through external reporting. This target promotes the reduction of the amount of waste going to landfill and has been formu- lated this way taking into account the maturity of waste handling systems in different countries and locations where CTP operates (stakeholders, such as suppliers and local teams, have been taken into account). For this reason, bearing in mind the limitations stem- ming from it, CTP decided to first focus on the promo- tion of waste-handling practices that allow for the re- use and recycling of materials. It is expected to support progress in waste management, allowing CTP to set up further targets in the future. CTP indirectly addresses the increase of circular materi- al use rate and the minimisation of primary raw materi- als. This is done through the embodied emissions reduc- tion target. CTP has not yet developed targets related to re- source inflows and circular economy. CTP is considering the development of targets, but has set no timeline. CTP tracks the effectiveness of its policies through internal processes, in which management and senior manage- ment are involved. 4.7.1.2.3 Actions and recourses E5-2-17, E5-2-19, E5-ESRS-2-62 Selective waste collection, which includes recycling, is an integral part of the BREEAM New Construction certi- fication process for CTP’s buildings. These actions are ongoing. Through their implementation, CTP expects to increase waste diverted from landfills, i.e., increasing re- cycling and reuse rates. This action is planned to assist CTP in achieving its 2030 target, as explained in Section 4.7.1.2.4. Actions will be further developed in the future. Additionally, CTP implements requirements for its con- struction and refurbishment activities to obtain EU tax- onomy alignment that include waste management. CTP considers CapEx and OpEx related to these ac- tions as part of business as usual. The resources allocated to managing material im- pacts are considered part of normal business operations. CTP is currently collecting data on the inflow of ma- terials, which will enable the creation of informed actions. CIRCULAR ECONOMY TARGETS Base Year (2023) 2024 2030 Target Selective waste collection construction activities (share of projects) 21% 56% 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 126 MATERIAL INFLOWS Material Material inflow (t) Material inflow (t) (%) Steel/iron 433,914 10% Concrete and related products 3,547,333 86% Asphalt 153,878 4% Total 4,135,125 100% Biological materials N/A MATERIAL OUTFLOWS Total Amount of Waste generated during construction/sqm Waste diverted from landfill (recycled) Percenage of waste diverted from landfill (recycled) 8,416.97 3,103.19 37% 4.7.1.2.5 Resource inflows and outflows E5-4-28, E5-4-30, E5-4-31, E5-4-32, E5-5-33, E5-5-35, E5-5-36, E5-5-37, E5-5-38, E5-5-39, E5-5-40 The data in the table “Material Inflows” is based on es- timates obtained from data that CTP collected from completed buildings and extrapolated to cover 100% of the gross floor area (“GFA”) completed in 2024. The base sample includes GFA of 485,277 sqm, whereas CTP com- pleted 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. As part of the BREEAM certification process, CTP received data on materials used in its buildings. As data is delivered in different metrics (cubic metre, sqm, or kg), CTP has made use of the information received in kg to cal- culate the reported numbers. CTP’s material inflow is related to building materials used in the construction process. Among others, impor- tant materials are steel, concrete, asphalt, and the water used in the process. CTP uses these materials as provid- ed by suppliers to construct its buildings. Some materi- als, such as steel and concrete, include recycled content. After completing the building lifecycle, a share of materi- als used in buildings can be reused or recycled. CTP has no available data related to biological materi- als or the weight in both absolute value and percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products, and secondary materials used to manufacture the undertaking’s products and services (in- cluding packaging). The data in the table “Material Outflows” is based on estimates obtained from data that CTP collected on pre- viously completed buildings and extrapolated to cover the GFA completed in 2024. For these estimates, CTP cre- ated a sample of reports related to waste-related data under BREEAM certification. The base sample includes GFA of 489,291 sqm, where- as CTP completed 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. The sample data does not include a breakdown of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and only information on waste diverted from landfills can be shared. Due to the limit- ed data availability, extrapolation of the sample leads to inaccuracies in the reported figures. Considering the na- ture of CTP’s buildings, no radioactive waste can be ex- pected. The waste streams relevant to the sector in which CTP operates is related to construction materials, such as gypsum, plastics, packaging, and insulation. The na- ture of waste in the construction sector makes it recy- clable to a great extent. The 37% of waste diverted from landfill is underestimated due to limited data availability; improvement of this numbers is possible through better onsite waste management and improved data quality. Currently, the available data informs the percentage of waste diverted from landfill. Due to the nature of the waste, this can be considered as recycled, with the rest being non-recycled. The available data does not inform on whether waste is hazardous or non-hazardous. The type of buildings CTP constructs, mostly light indus- trial and logistics buildings, have an expected average du- rability of 50–60 years, in line with the industry average. Beyond CTP’s assurance provider, no other validation took place. 4.7.1.2.6 Financial effects of IROs relating to resource use and circular economy E5-6-41, E5-6-43 CTP’s 2024 DMA process did not identify any risks or op- portunities related to circular economy; therefore, CTP does not foresee a financial impact. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material topics, including impacts of doing business as usual."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 127 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 128 4.7.2 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being CTP’s ESG strategy pillar “Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being” contains all social-related material disclo- sures as identified in the Group’s 2024 DMA process, which indicate the following ESRS categories as material for the Company: S1 Own workforce S2 Workers in the value chain As confirmed by the 2024 DMA, CTP’s impact goes be- yond the parks and buildings that it develops, owns and operates. For more information on the results of the DMA, please refer to Section 4.7.4. CTP employs close to 900 of its own employees, with nearly 1,500 clients. Both within the Company and in the communities where it operates, CTP, in collaboration with its clients, local municipalities and NGOs, introduces and/ or supports activities that promote well-being, includ- ing charity donations targeting disadvantaged youth and other vulnerable members of society, support for educa- tion, and job retraining programs. See Section 4.7.2.1.13 for more details. 4.7.2.1 ESRS S1 – Own workforce 4.7.2.1.1 Interests and views of own employees S1 SBM-2-12 Employees were included as a main stakeholder group in CTP’s 2024 DMA, and their views and feedback were taken into consideration in the process of identifying ma- terial topics. CTP’s Employee Engagement Survey, which was launched in 2024 as a yearly process, is another mechanism for Group leadership to gain insight into the interests and views of its employees. Through these two processes, information that informs CTP’s strategy and business model is collected. CTP’s strategy and goal are to increase the GLA and thereby the business. This increases opportunities for and expansion of the workforce, strengthening the identi- fied positive impacts. See Section 7.3.1 for the complete overview of mate- rial ESRS S1 topics. 4.7.2.1.2 Impact of material IROs on strategy and business model S1 SBM-3-13, S1 SBM-3-14, S1 SBM-3-15, S1 SBM-3-16 The Company’s IROs relating to its workforce are con- sidered in strategic decisions and ideas related to CTP’s business model. The identified positive impacts are based on the current strategy of growth within the existing business model. The employee-related IROs described in Section 7.3.1 include all types of employees at CTP. The DMA did not identify negative impacts, risks, or opportunities. The majority of CTP employees are white collar em- ployees, working in project management, business devel- opment, permitting, and different support functions such as finance, HR, legal, and others. While analysing IROs for employees and non-employees are taken into account, these employees are considered to be impacted similarly. Employee recruitment and development risks and opportunities, secure employment, adequate wag- es, social dialogue, work-life balance, training and de- velopment, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, diversity, and measures against violence and harassment apply to all CTP employees, includ- ing non-employees, independent of position, age, or gender. More details about employee demographics can be found in Section 4.7.2.1.8. Health and safety aspects apply mainly to employees working on construction sites. At CTP, non-employees are self-employed people. Self-employed is defined as someone pursuing a gainful activity for their own account, under the conditions laid down by national law. This excludes those employees of other companies providing services to CTP."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 122 GHG INTENSITY GHG intensity per net revenue (Financial control) Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/e) 0.000879 0.001120 27% Total GHG emissions (Market-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/€) 0.000790 0.000881 11% GHG intensity per net revenue (Operational control) Base year (2023) N (2024) % 2024 / 2023 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/e) 0.000879 0.001120 27% Total GHG emissions (Market-based) per net revenue (tCO2e/€) 0.000878 0.001117 27% Categories 1 and 13 have significant impact on CTP, as the emissions in each category are more than 20% of to- tal emissions. For category 6 data is available within the organisation, and therefore it is reported. Scope 3 categories 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, and 15, are not significant to CTP’s business operations based on the size of the emission. CTP’s GHG intensity is calculated using the emis- sions of Scope 1 and 2, divided by the net revenue of 2024. A negligible percentage of net revenue was obtained from non-high-climate impact sectors; therefore, this revenue is included in the calculation. The denominator for GHG intensity is total revenue. In addition to the assurance provider, reported data in this section (energy consumption, refrigerant losses, and respective GHG emissions excluding intensities) is vali- dated by Arcadis in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2019. The process includes review of a sample and review against underlying evidence, verifying the correctness of the calculations and results. The GHG intensity reduction from 2023 to 2024 is driven mostly by an increase in net revenue Scope 3 category 1 was calculated using available data for completed buildings. The emission intensities have been determined on the country level. These intensities were used as the basis on which to calculate the reported figures for 2024 multiplying the intensities by the GLA (sqm) of completed buildings in each country in 2024. CTP’s emissions are not regulated under the Europe- an Union Emissions Trading System. There were no significant changes in 2024 to the definition of what constitutes CTP and its upstream and downstream value chain. Within its Scope 3 emissions, CTP has included the following categories: Category 1 Purchased goods and services Category 6 Business travel Category 13 Downstream leased assets"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 123 4.7.1.1.8 Financial effects of climate IROs E1-9-66, E1-9-67, E1-9-68, E1-9-69, SBM-3-48, E1-IRO-1-20 In 2022, as a part of overall risk management, CTP con- ducted its first physical climate risk assessment to evalu- ate the exposure of its properties to acute and chronic cli- mate-related risks using a third-party climate modelling tool. The assessment was expanded in 2023 and 2024 to cover properties acquired and developed since 2022. In this assessment, the Company used different RCP models made available by the IPCC, considering items such as, but not limited to, coastal flooding, extreme heat, and water stress. See Section 4.7.1.1.2 for more information related to CTP’s climate risk modelling. The climate-related risks identified as potentially the most impactful to CTP are coastal flooding and rising sea levels. These have been categorised into short-, mid-, and long-term risks. Even in the least severe scenarios (SSP2, medium challenges to mitigation and adaptation), projections indicate that sea levels will rise significantly enough that, in the long term, the Company’s portfolio in the Netherlands could be affected, with some assets po- tentially falling below sea level. This is similarly true for a limited number of properties along the German Wadden Sea coast. However, CTP regards these risks as policy risks, given that both Dutch and German governments are implementing measures to mitigate them. Based on its analysis, CTP concludes that five of its properties1 are at risk, representing, at most, 1.2% of the portfolio’s value. As part of the climate risk assessment mentioned above, transition climate risks were also examined. CTP utilised the CRREM tool developed by the Carbon Risk Real Es- tate Monitor to evaluate which buildings might need ad- ditional investment to increase energy efficiency in order to meet anticipated regulatory requirements. However, given that CTP buildings support a variety of uses, even within a CRREM category, the Company ac- knowledges limitations to the applicability of the CRREM tool on its portfolio. Client energy consumption is includ- ed in the analysis and can vary significantly depending on the client’s industry. For instance, the size of the cold storage area within a warehouse is not considered as an input, although it significantly influences the building’s energy consumption and thus affects the outcome of the assessment. With the expected impacts of the EU’s En- ergy Performance Buildings Directive (“EPBD”), which was revised in 2024, CTP considers other aspects such as the Energy Performance Certificate (“EPC”) to be more accurate indicators of the energy efficiency of its buildings. CRREM was used as a testing and indication tool, while EPCs were used for a more precise assessment of transition climate risks. CTP continuously upgrades its portfolio to ensure that it retains its high energy clas- sifications. Construction of new buildings follows up-to- date requirements and CTP’s internal ESG requirements, which in many cases go beyond local building code re- quirements. Expected costs related to material and tran- sition climate risks have been calculated for a sample of properties, the outcome of which is presented in Section 4.7.1.1.1. The impact of the both physical and transition related cli- mate risks is expressed in the property values, as these go through a bi-annual evaluation process. CTP uses re- nowned valuators to ensure all climate-related aspects are taking into account. Additionally, properties are in- sured. Therefore, CTP considers expected costs as part of business as usual. CTP has not identified transition risks that are financially material to the portfolio over the short and medium term. Additionally, the long-term impact of physical cli- mate risks is presented in the paragraphs above, while the long-term impact of transition risks is considered as too volatile to be reliable. The volatility of energy prices in Europe in recent years have made CTP’s clients more aware of the short- and long-term costs of energy. There was a visible increase in client demand for energy from renewable sources during 2024. CTP expects its abili- ty to provide clients with renewable energy generated onsite at its parks, as well as other energy-efficiency measures that the Company takes, to attract more com- panies that consider total cost of occupancy as a main driver. See Section 4.7.1.1.2 for more information related to CTP’s climate risk modelling. CTP is a dynamic company with continuous growth through construction and acquisitions. The consistent arrival of new clients and ongoing changes to their oper- ations affect the consumption of utilities within the port- folio. This makes the creation of metrics difficult and re- quires more detailed analysis. Despite these limitations, CTP carried out an analysis of its clients, which confirms that none of its clients operate in the coal, oil, or gas- related sectors. 1 Properties located in NUTS Code areas NL3, DE8, and DE9."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 124 4.7.1.2 ESRS E5 – Material Resource Use and Circular Economy 4.7.1.2.1 Material IROs relating to material resource use and circular economy E5-IRO-1-11 As part of the 2024 DMA, material resource use and cir- cular economy (ESRS E5) was identified as a material top- ic, applicable to all business units and assets considering the development, construction, and operational phases of these assets. The IROs mentioned in this section of the report are based on a business-as-usual scenario. If CTP does not act on these IROs, there is a potential increase in construction cost. CTP’s 2024 DMA process identified the following cir- cular economy ESRS sub-topics as material: E5 – Resource use and circular economy Waste Resource inflows, including resource use Summary • Only actual negative impacts, and no risks or oppor- tunities, have been identified. Resource inflows and outflows are resources related to CTP’s construction activities. • No related risks and opportunities were identified. • The following materials are used by CTP as part of its business activities and prioritised in this order: 1) steel/iron; 2) concrete and related products; and 3) asphalt. • Affected communities were not identified for this topic. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or compulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material top- ics, including impacts of doing business as usual. 4.7.1.2.2 Policies related to resource use and circular economy E5-1-12, E5-1-14, E5-ESRS-2-62 Waste management is part of CTP’s Environmental Pol- icy. The policy’s objective is to create a systemised ap- proach towards environmental matters and propose rel- evant actions. The policy applies to CTP’s own operations and activities, including incorporating waste manage- ment practices into its construction activities, and cli- ents are not required to comply. The waste hierarchy is not addressed in the current version of the policy, nor are other material matters such as transitioning away from use of virgin resources or sustainable sourcing. CTP plans to revise Environmental Policy in 2025 to develop section concerning waste and materials inflow. The Board of Di- rectors is responsible and accountable for implementing the policy. The ISO 14001 and 50001 management systems are part of the policy, and key stakeholders are considered in the policy. CTP’s Environmental Policy can be found on the Com- pany’s website. CTP also has internal waste management require- ments, which include requirements for new construction and refurbishments. CTP has yet to develop policies related to resource inflows."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 125 4.7.1.2.4 Targets related to resource use and circular economy E5-3-21, E5-3-23, E5-ESRS-2-72 CTP generates a significant amount of waste during its construction activities. The Company has set a voluntary target related to waste management: increase the im- plementation of selective waste collection to 95% of all its construction activities by 2030, compared to 45% in 2023. This target applies to its own projects, independ- ent of location, size, or building type. The progress on this target is measured on an annual basis, through external reporting. This target promotes the reduction of the amount of waste going to landfill and has been formu- lated this way taking into account the maturity of waste handling systems in different countries and locations where CTP operates (stakeholders, such as suppliers and local teams, have been taken into account). For this reason, bearing in mind the limitations stem- ming from it, CTP decided to first focus on the promo- tion of waste-handling practices that allow for the re- use and recycling of materials. It is expected to support progress in waste management, allowing CTP to set up further targets in the future. CTP indirectly addresses the increase of circular materi- al use rate and the minimisation of primary raw materi- als. This is done through the embodied emissions reduc- tion target. CTP has not yet developed targets related to re- source inflows and circular economy. CTP is considering the development of targets, but has set no timeline. CTP tracks the effectiveness of its policies through internal processes, in which management and senior manage- ment are involved. 4.7.1.2.3 Actions and recourses E5-2-17, E5-2-19, E5-ESRS-2-62 Selective waste collection, which includes recycling, is an integral part of the BREEAM New Construction certi- fication process for CTP’s buildings. These actions are ongoing. Through their implementation, CTP expects to increase waste diverted from landfills, i.e., increasing re- cycling and reuse rates. This action is planned to assist CTP in achieving its 2030 target, as explained in Section 4.7.1.2.4. Actions will be further developed in the future. Additionally, CTP implements requirements for its con- struction and refurbishment activities to obtain EU tax- onomy alignment that include waste management. CTP considers CapEx and OpEx related to these ac- tions as part of business as usual. The resources allocated to managing material im- pacts are considered part of normal business operations. CTP is currently collecting data on the inflow of ma- terials, which will enable the creation of informed actions. CIRCULAR ECONOMY TARGETS Base Year (2023) 2024 2030 Target Selective waste collection construction activities (share of projects) 21% 56% 95%"
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 126 MATERIAL INFLOWS Material Material inflow (t) Material inflow (t) (%) Steel/iron 433,914 10% Concrete and related products 3,547,333 86% Asphalt 153,878 4% Total 4,135,125 100% Biological materials N/A MATERIAL OUTFLOWS Total Amount of Waste generated during construction/sqm Waste diverted from landfill (recycled) Percenage of waste diverted from landfill (recycled) 8,416.97 3,103.19 37% 4.7.1.2.5 Resource inflows and outflows E5-4-28, E5-4-30, E5-4-31, E5-4-32, E5-5-33, E5-5-35, E5-5-36, E5-5-37, E5-5-38, E5-5-39, E5-5-40 The data in the table “Material Inflows” is based on es- timates obtained from data that CTP collected from completed buildings and extrapolated to cover 100% of the gross floor area (“GFA”) completed in 2024. The base sample includes GFA of 485,277 sqm, whereas CTP com- pleted 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. As part of the BREEAM certification process, CTP received data on materials used in its buildings. As data is delivered in different metrics (cubic metre, sqm, or kg), CTP has made use of the information received in kg to cal- culate the reported numbers. CTP’s material inflow is related to building materials used in the construction process. Among others, impor- tant materials are steel, concrete, asphalt, and the water used in the process. CTP uses these materials as provid- ed by suppliers to construct its buildings. Some materi- als, such as steel and concrete, include recycled content. After completing the building lifecycle, a share of materi- als used in buildings can be reused or recycled. CTP has no available data related to biological materi- als or the weight in both absolute value and percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products, and secondary materials used to manufacture the undertaking’s products and services (in- cluding packaging). The data in the table “Material Outflows” is based on estimates obtained from data that CTP collected on pre- viously completed buildings and extrapolated to cover the GFA completed in 2024. For these estimates, CTP cre- ated a sample of reports related to waste-related data under BREEAM certification. The base sample includes GFA of 489,291 sqm, where- as CTP completed 1,283,570 sqm of GFA in 2024. The sample data does not include a breakdown of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and only information on waste diverted from landfills can be shared. Due to the limit- ed data availability, extrapolation of the sample leads to inaccuracies in the reported figures. Considering the na- ture of CTP’s buildings, no radioactive waste can be ex- pected. The waste streams relevant to the sector in which CTP operates is related to construction materials, such as gypsum, plastics, packaging, and insulation. The na- ture of waste in the construction sector makes it recy- clable to a great extent. The 37% of waste diverted from landfill is underestimated due to limited data availability; improvement of this numbers is possible through better onsite waste management and improved data quality. Currently, the available data informs the percentage of waste diverted from landfill. Due to the nature of the waste, this can be considered as recycled, with the rest being non-recycled. The available data does not inform on whether waste is hazardous or non-hazardous. The type of buildings CTP constructs, mostly light indus- trial and logistics buildings, have an expected average du- rability of 50–60 years, in line with the industry average. Beyond CTP’s assurance provider, no other validation took place. 4.7.1.2.6 Financial effects of IROs relating to resource use and circular economy E5-6-41, E5-6-43 CTP’s 2024 DMA process did not identify any risks or op- portunities related to circular economy; therefore, CTP does not foresee a financial impact. See Section 7.3.1 for a complete overview of material topics, including impacts of doing business as usual."
CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 127 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 128 4.7.2 Pillar 2: Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being CTP’s ESG strategy pillar “Stimulating Social Impact & Well-being” contains all social-related material disclo- sures as identified in the Group’s 2024 DMA process, which indicate the following ESRS categories as material for the Company: S1 Own workforce S2 Workers in the value chain As confirmed by the 2024 DMA, CTP’s impact goes be- yond the parks and buildings that it develops, owns and operates. For more information on the results of the DMA, please refer to Section 4.7.4. CTP employs close to 900 of its own employees, with nearly 1,500 clients. Both within the Company and in the communities where it operates, CTP, in collaboration with its clients, local municipalities and NGOs, introduces and/ or supports activities that promote well-being, includ- ing charity donations targeting disadvantaged youth and other vulnerable members of society, support for educa- tion, and job retraining programs. See Section 4.7.2.1.13 for more details. 4.7.2.1 ESRS S1 – Own workforce 4.7.2.1.1 Interests and views of own employees S1 SBM-2-12 Employees were included as a main stakeholder group in CTP’s 2024 DMA, and their views and feedback were taken into consideration in the process of identifying ma- terial topics. CTP’s Employee Engagement Survey, which was launched in 2024 as a yearly process, is another mechanism for Group leadership to gain insight into the interests and views of its employees. Through these two processes, information that informs CTP’s strategy and business model is collected. CTP’s strategy and goal are to increase the GLA and thereby the business. This increases opportunities for and expansion of the workforce, strengthening the identi- fied positive impacts. See Section 7.3.1 for the complete overview of mate- rial ESRS S1 topics. 4.7.2.1.2 Impact of material IROs on strategy and business model S1 SBM-3-13, S1 SBM-3-14, S1 SBM-3-15, S1 SBM-3-16 The Company’s IROs relating to its workforce are con- sidered in strategic decisions and ideas related to CTP’s business model. The identified positive impacts are based on the current strategy of growth within the existing business model. The employee-related IROs described in Section 7.3.1 include all types of employees at CTP. The DMA did not identify negative impacts, risks, or opportunities. The majority of CTP employees are white collar em- ployees, working in project management, business devel- opment, permitting, and different support functions such as finance, HR, legal, and others. While analysing IROs for employees and non-employees are taken into account, these employees are considered to be impacted similarly. Employee recruitment and development risks and opportunities, secure employment, adequate wag- es, social dialogue, work-life balance, training and de- velopment, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, diversity, and measures against violence and harassment apply to all CTP employees, includ- ing non-employees, independent of position, age, or gender. More details about employee demographics can be found in Section 4.7.2.1.8. Health and safety aspects apply mainly to employees working on construction sites. At CTP, non-employees are self-employed people. Self-employed is defined as someone pursuing a gainful activity for their own account, under the conditions laid down by national law. This excludes those employees of other companies providing services to CTP."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 129 Summary • CTP’s 2024 DMA identified positive impacts on CTP’s own workforce. CTP’s focus on personal health and well-being is demonstrated by providing regular Group-wide events and managing health and safety at the workplace. • For actions leading to positive impacts, see Section 4.7.2.1.6. • No risks or opportunities were identified in relation to dependencies on the workforce. • The growth of CTP’s business creates employment opportunities for new candidates and offers opportu- nities for existing staff. • CTP has not identified any operations or geographies at significant risk of incidents of forced, child, or com- pulsory labour. • No types of employees who could be negatively af- fected by the Group’s strategy or business model have been identified. • CTP does not see impacts on its employees stemming from material topics E1, E5, S2, and G1. CTP does not see any impact on the IROs arising from the execution of its Transition Plan for Climate Change Mit- igation. 4.7.2.1.3 Policies related to CTP’s workforce S1-1-17, S1-1-19, S1-1-20, S1-1-21, S1-1-22, S1-1-23, S1-1-24, S1-ESRS-2-62 GRI 3-3, GRI 403-1 Multiple CTP policies cover workforce-related material topics. CTP respects human rights and embraces major human rights-related documents and conventions, such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the OECD Guidelines for Multi- national Enterprises, through its policies. These are out- lined below. Code of Conduct CTP’s Code of Conduct covers IROs related to health and safety. This code sets out the expected behaviour of, and therefore applying to, CTP’s Execu- tive Directors and Company staff. The specific topics mentioned in the Code of Conduct are working relationships and workplace safety. CTP’s Executive Direc- tors are accountable for the implementa- tion of the code. CTP’s Code of Conduct has been established in accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and references multiple internation- al conventions as applicable, including the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the ILO core conventions, and the International Bill of Human Rights. The Code of Conduct explicitly prohibits human trafficking, forced labour, and child labour. CTP’s Code of Conduct describes the process in detail and is available on the Company’s website. Diversity and Inclusion Policy CTP’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy cov- ers IROs related to diversity and inclusion within the Company. This policy sets out the rules for diversity and inclusion regarding the composition of the Board and senior management, policy imple- mentation, and annual reporting on its implementation during the year. CTP’s Executive Directors are accountable for implementing the policy. The policy was developed in line with provision 2.1.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The policy applies to the Board of Direc- tors and senior management. See Section 5.5 for more details on CTP’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy. Anti-discrimination and Harassment Policy The goal of CTP’s Anti-discrimination and Harassment Policy is to foster safe, equal and inclusive working environments for CTP’s own employees as well as for workers in CTP’s value chain. CTP’s Anti-discrimination and Harassment Pol- icy covers the topic of measures against violence and harassment, including known grounds of discrimination, at the work- place and applies to all CTP employees with an employment contract and to individuals associated with CTP, e.g., agents, guests, customers, vendors, and other third parties. In this way, the policy covers material impacts related to “equal treatment and opportunities for all”. The policy is structured in such a manner that it prevents discrimination and harass- ment, mitigates the risk of occurrence, and has methods of remediation in place. The Executive Directors are accountable for the implementation of the policy. The policy is implemented in accordance with local labour and anti-discrimination leg- islation and other respective regulations, including but not limited to International Labour Organisation (“ILO”) conventions."
"CTP N.V. Annual Report 2024 Sustainability 130 All above-mentioned policies are available on CTP’s web- site and cover all employees without being directed at specific groups; there are no specific policy commitments directed towards positive action or for people from groups at risk of vulnarability. Policy commitments relat- ed to inclusion are part of CTP’s Diverstity and Inclusion Policy. Internal and external stakeholders were involved in the setting of these policies. CTP has yet to develop policies that cover social dia- logue, work-life balance, training and development skills, recruitment, and workplace accident prevention. 4.7.2.1.4 Employee engagement S1-2-25, S1-2-27, S1-2-28 To gain better insight into actual or potential impacts, both positive and negative, that may affect CTP’s work- force, the Company includes its own employees as a stakeholder group in the DMA process, which takes place every two years. The Group Head of ESG Management is responsible for this process. Additionally, CTP launched an annual Employee En- gagement Survey in 2024 to gain further understanding of and insights into the level of engagement and satis- faction of its employees. See Section 4.7.2.1.6 for further details. 4.7.2.1.5 Remediation of negative impacts and channels to raise concerns S1-3-30, S1-3-32, S1-3-33, S1-3-34 GRI-2-26 CTP offers its employees multiple, layered channels that enable them to raise concerns about negative impacts. The access to these channels is communicated and made available through CTP’s policies. See Section 4.7.2.1.3 for more information on these policies. These include: • the appropriate supervisor; • a designated Company contact; • the Group AML Compliance Officer (compliance@ctp.eu); • an anonymous grievance channel. Both the reporter and the receiver of the report must fol- low the procedures set out in the Group Grievance Inves- tigation Procedure and the Group Anti-discrimination and Harassment Policy. At CTP, the tracking and monitoring of issues raised through the Company’s grievance channels are managed using the FaceUp website application, which provides re- al-time oversight and detailed reporting capabilities. This system, overseen by the Group AML Compliance Officer, ensures that all concerns are promptly addressed and al- lows for the active involvement of stakeholders in verifying the effectiveness of the grievance mechanisms. Further- more, to ensure continuous improvement and accountabil- ity, a comprehensive report on the handling and resolution of these issues is regularly presented to the Audit Com- mittee/Board, demonstrating the Company’s commit- ment to transparency and effective issue resolution. The grievance channel can be used for all non-compli- ance concerns, including ESG matters. Currently, CTP assess the effectiveness of remediation of negative impacts on a case-by-case basis. An external provider manages the grievance channel to ensure anonymity. CTP’s Whistleblower Policy ensures non-retaliation. The mechanisms CTP uses to ensure familiarity with these channels are described in Section 4.7.3.1.4 as part of CTP’s governance policies. The fact that cases stem from internal reporters shows that em- ployees are aware of and trust the process. 4.7.2.1.6 Actions and resources S1-4-35, S1-4-37, S1-4-38, S1-4-39, S1-4-40, S1-4-41, S1-4-42, S1-4-43 As CTP’s 2024 DMA did not identify negative impacts, no mitigating actions were taken and no actions are planned. The resources allocated to managing material impacts are considered part of normal business operations. The employee Engagement Survey and Employee Share Pur- chase Plan are managed and financed at the Group level. Other actions have budgets available; these are managed locally as part of the business process. The actions executed in 2024 address selected topics and are directed towards collecting data to develop tar- gets, and with those, actions. CTP has also developed the HR function to plan actions to address other IROs. In 2024, CTP initiated two new actions to strengthen employee engagement, and bolster all positive impacts:"

--- 2024 ING Groep NV annual report ---
"We have updated the 2023 financed emissions table to make the 2024 values comparable. With respect to the financed emissions as disclosed in the 2023 report we made the following changes: 1) we included the scope 3 emissions, 2) we have broken down scope 1 and 2 emissions per sector in scope of Terra. Financed emissions 2023 Asset class Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3 Outstanding EUR billion Measured outstanding in EUR billion Financed emissions in ktCO2e PCAF data quality score Share of financed emissions for clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach1 Economic intensity in ktCO2e/ EUR billion2 Financed emissions in ktCO2e PCAF data quality score Share of financed emissions for clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach1 Economic intensity in ktCO2e/ EUR billion2 Residential Real Estate (Mortgages) 332.4 332.0 6,034 3.4 18.2 Commercial Real Estate WB 22.7 16.6 421 3.2 86 % 25.4 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 15.2 360 3.3 86 % 23.7 - Clients not in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 1.4 61 3.0 43.6 Commercial Real Estate BB 23.7 11.6 272 3.0 80 % 23.4 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 11.1 218 3.0 80 % 19.6 - Clients not in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 0.5 54 3.0 108.0 Business Loans - Retail Banking 76.8 76.8 10,789 5.0 140.5 71,886 4.4 936.0 Business Loans - Wholesale Banking 191.4 191.0 39,772 3.7 54 % 208.2 178,436 3.7 29 % 934.0 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Power 10.1 10,410 4.5 26 % 1,026.3 4,413 4.5 2 % 435.1 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Upstream Oil & Gas 1.2 1,569 3.9 4 % 1,358.4 23,668 4.9 13 % 20,494.5 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Mid- & Downstream Oil & Gas 7.2 2,881 3.5 7 % 400.8 16,853 3.4 9 % 2,344.6 - Clients in scope of Transition plan under Terra approach: Cement 0.6 1,232 2.8 3 % 2,113.2 375 2.8 0 % 643.5 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Steel 0.7 528 3.2 1 % 747.1 867 3.1 0 % 1,225.5 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Automotive 2.9 24 2.3 0 % 8.3 2,571 2.3 1 % 884.0 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Aviation 3.5 2,610 4.0 7 % 755.3 1,566 3.9 1 % 453.0 - Clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach: Shipping 4.9 2,343 4.0 6 % 481.3 1,944 4.0 1 % 399.4 - Clients not in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach 160.0 18,174 3.7 113.6 126,179 3.7 788.4 Total Lending in scope 647.0 628.1 57,288 3.7 91.2 250,322 3.9 934.6 Total Equity investments 3.5 78 5.0 22.3 544 4.3 155.4 Total Corporate bonds 1.0 263 5.0 263.0 316 2.4 316.0 1 Share of financed emissions for clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra Approach is calculated as a ratio of financed emissions for clients in scope of Transition Plan under Terra approach to the total financed emission of the asset class. 2 Economic intensity is calculated as a ratio of financed emissions to the measured outstanding. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 125"
"Other information related to our transition plan Disclosure related to decarbonisation levers Decarbonisation levers can be considered as both sector-wide levers, and the levers that are within ING’s control. Quantitative data related to these decarbonisation levers is not yet sufficiently available, as a majority of the counterparties are either not in scope for CSRD or will only be reporting this information starting from 2025. However, for the decarbonisation levers that are within ING’s control, they can be achieved through our financing strategy, as proposed in the NZBA Transition Finance Guide. For that, we see our client-engagement approach following our Client Transition Plan assessment (e.g. growing business for green finance or managed phase out for misaligned clients), committed financing targets (e.g. targets for renewable energy financing), and our exclusion and restriction in financing activities as the key levers of our portfolio transition. While we continue to collect information from our clients and counterparties, we expect more data will be available in the future to refine our transition plan. This will help us to identify and quantify how the decarbonisation levers influence our forward-looking targets. Disclosure related to locked-in GHG emissions Locked-in emissions refer to the estimates of future GHG emissions that are likely to be caused by the key assets or products sold within the operating lifetime. As a financial institution, locked-in emissions may not be directly applicable to us, but we acknowledge that the clients that we finance may continue to invest in stranded assets that jeopardise their net-zero transition. According to our Pillar 3 Template 1 disclosure, as of December 2024, the average weighted maturity of our financing towards sectors that highly contributed to climate change is around five years. While this relatively short maturity allows us to constantly review our portfolio mix, our sector and Client Transition Plan support us in managing the locked-in emissions challenge. When establishing our sector transition plan, we tailor the plan for each sector by taking into account the specific conditions, opportunities, and challenges of that particular industry. This approach helps us translate sector strategies and targets into tangible actions. For example, in the oil & gas sector, recognising that infrastructure such as LNG terminals could become locked in, as guided by the IEA, we have decided to stop providing new financing for new LNG export terminals after 2025. Similarly, in the aviation sector, we focus on increasing the proportion of next-generation aircraft in our portfolio to support investment in future-proof assets. At a client level, our Client Transition Plan assesses whether clients have set targets, strategies and actions to reduce emissions. This guides our engagement approach and the dialogues with our clients, which may also help us to identify if locked-in emissions could impact their goals. Disclosure related to the EU Paris-aligned benchmarks Under the Climate Benchmark Standards Regulation, companies are excluded from benchmark indices of companies if their emissions levels are not aligned with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Under articles 12.1 (d) to (g) of this regulation, companies are excluded from such benchmarks if their revenue originates from the activities including electricity generation, as well as the exploration, mining, extraction, refining, manufacturing or distribution related to hard coal, lignite, oil fuels and gaseous fuel. In addition, as per Article 12 (2) of the aforementioned regulation, companies that significantly harm one or more of the environmental objectives referred to in Article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 shall also be excluded from the Paris-aligned benchmarks. The screening and assessments of such exclusions are assessed internally and / or independently by the Administrators of EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks based on publicly available information and subject to the rules of estimation. Although ING Groep N.V.’s revenue does not meet the revenue-related threshold for exclusion, ING does not have the additional necessary information to disclose if ING itself is excluded from any benchmark. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 126"
"Policies, actions and performance With our sector transition plan we focus on the most carbon-intensive sectors and steering them towards net zero, as described in the previous section. As a bank, we have more measures in place to manage our impacts, risks and opportunities. These actions are not part of our sector transition plan, but do present our strategic direction and are an integral part of how we do and manage our business. This next section includes the relevant policies and guidelines to address the material impacts, risks and opportunities and the related actions to execute those policies and guidelines. Where the Environmental, Social and Governance Risk Policy addresses our negative impacts and risks, our sustainable finance guidelines and green bond framework address our opportunities. The Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Risk Policy The ESG Risk Framework, as further described in the 'ESG risk’ section, outlines ING’s approach to managing ESG risk as a risk driver of existing risk types. The framework is supported by the double materiality assessment (DMA1) and the ESG Risk Policy, ensuring the implementation of obligations, processes and control requirements from the policy. The ESG Risk Policy outlines ING’s approach to effectively identify, assess, mitigate, monitor and report ESG related risks as per ING’s ESG risk appetite, by considering applicable and material risks and negative impacts across the value chain as per ING’s DMA. The policy is applicable to ING Groep N.V. and all majority-owned and/or controlled ING entities, unless deviation is allowed by pursuant to local laws, regulations and/or supervisory acts. Relevant legislation and supervisory guidance on risk management practices, as well as ESG-related disclosures including the EBA Implementing Technical Standards (ITS) on Pillar 3 disclosures on ESG risk, the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), the EU taxonomy for sustainable activities, and Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR) are taken into account when drafting the policy. The ESG Risk Policy outlines its objectives and purpose, referencing relevant laws, regulations and global documentation. It also details the high-level obligations for entities, including control objectives to manage and mitigate ESG risks. The obligations are provided for applicable value-chain components. The ESG Risk Department, as the policy owner, performs oversight and monitoring of the policy implementation to obtain sufficient comfort of compliance with policy obligations across ING. ESG risks are an overarching set of risk drivers affecting financial, non-financial, and other overarching risks. Consequently, ESG risk management is embedded within existing risk processes and procedures related to credit granting criteria, risk appetite steering, and credit risk management. ING local entities integrate global requirements into local policy annexes, taking into account specifics of local regulations and market practices. Mostly such adjustments are done through lending criteria, local systems of loan management, systems of records and sales force procedures. Actions to implement the ESG Risk Policy As part of the risk management cycle (see the ‘ESG risk section’), ING takes a proactive approach to mitigating identified risks in line with its risk appetite. This is achieved through various risk mitigation strategies, such as reducing, avoiding, accepting, or transferring the risk. These measures are embedded in updates to existing policies and procedures across different risk categories. In the following paragraphs we elaborate on the key initiatives for each of the business lines where climate change has been identified as a material risk. Retail Banking: Residential mortgages ING regularly analyses different transmission channels and takes actions to manage associated risks. Transition and physical risks for the mortgage portfolio have been incorporated into ING’s business strategy, data controls, risk appetite, lending criteria and collateral valuation processes for local retail entities. Each local entity implements the ESG Risk Policy via the global guidance on material identified topics. Local adaptations are made in line with local regulations and market practices (reference: Organisational bodies, ‘ESG risk’ section). • Some local entities have already implemented policies to increase financing amounts and reduce pricing for properties with high-quality EPCs. Additionally, customer-engagement procedures, supported by advisory services and duty of care, aim at shifting customer interest towards low-emitting buildings. • One of the most crucial actions ING took to achieve more accurate emissions-based target setting and to better understand the effectiveness of its business strategy was implementing a set of mandatory data controls. For new originations, ING local entities implemented controls to ensure the mandatory collection of EPC data. Additionally, for the existing portfolio, controls on the development of energy performance proxy models facilitated high-quality data remediation. • Risk appetite is aligned with the business strategy and includes specific metrics for managing low-quality EPCs at new origination. Breaches in risk appetite are managed within the Risk Appetite Framework, with timely escalation to the ESG Risk Committee and top management. • The incorporation of climate-related risks into lending criteria is aligned with our risk appetite and business strategy. • Transition and physical risks are incorporated into collateral valuation through external valuers or by internally managing collateral haircuts and loan-to-value limitations for high-emitting properties. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 127 1 In addition to the results of the DMA, ING considers some ESG factors to be important (such as the negative impact of some sectors on affected communities) and the risk assessment and due diligence processes that follow will consider these factors as well. Important ESG factors are determined on a case by case basis and considers international standards such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on responsible business conduct and the UNGPs on Business and Human Rights"
"Retail Banking: Business Banking lending ING regularly reviews its business strategy and sets decarbonisation goals for sectors identified as major drivers of negative impact. Decarbonisation efforts are supported by defining relevant processes and actions, such as data collection and controls (e.g. EPC data for income-producing real estate), specifying dedicated lending criteria for these sectors, and implementing regular monitoring procedures. ING also engages with a selection of clients that have a negative impact to better understand their current situation and plans, and to support them in their transition process. ING takes actions to manage associated risks. In line with its risk appetite, ING accepts exposure to risks inherent to its business model and its commitment to financing the transition to a net-zero economy. These risks are regularly assessed, monitored and managed through client-specific assessments across different entities, defining risk-appetite limits for exposure to transition risks, key risk indicators related to physical risks, and additional acceptance criteria for specific segments like income-producing real estate. Risks that do not align with ING’s risk appetite should be effectively mitigated or may not be accepted. Mitigation strategies may include insurance for physical risks, if possible, incorporating transition and physical risks into collateral valuation, or setting covenants that require certain investments in line with the client’s transition plan. For specific sectors, lending policies are adjusted to ensure that transition and physical risks are properly assessed and mitigated as needed. All these initiatives are supported by data collection procedures and controls tailored to specific sectors, enabling a better assessment of the current portfolio and facilitating active portfolio management. Wholesale Banking lending ING conducts regular reviews of its business strategy and sets decarbonisation objectives for Terra sectors identified as having a high negative impact. These initiatives are supported by the establishment of relevant processes and mitigation actions to address the risks associated with operating in these high-emitting sectors. • Climate Risk Appetite Statement: The primary source of negative impact in Terra sectors arises from financing high-emitting corporate clients. However, the contribution varies among clients. We assess the severity of negative impact at the client level, considering their current emissions, financial capacity for transitioning to net-zero, and the quality of their transition plans. Our client-level transition risk assessment enables us to differentiate risks effectively. High-severity impact clients are managed by setting risk appetite limits to control financing, including imposing growth constraints. A specific metric is established to manage high-risk clients in sectors with the highest GHG emissions, aligning with our decarbonisation targets and guiding future lending. • Lending policies and steering signals: All sector lending policies and steering signals reference the ESG Risk Policy and apply its minimum requirements. In the steering signals, sector transition plans, addressing climate change mitigation and adaptation challenges, are crucial in defining these signals. Lending criteria are established per sector, aligned with the steering. The lending policies include ESG factors and transmission channels relevant to each sector, detailing acceptable mitigants to address potential financial risks from ESG factors. • ESG risk assessment tool: For WB, ING has developed a new ESG risk-assessment approach, which considers the Environmental (including Climate), Social and Governance risk factors, negative impacts and dependencies of our WB customers, and fully integrates the previous ESR framework. Tooling was developed to support the implementation of the assessment approach in the credit granting process. The new approach (including addition of S&G factors) was gradually rolled out over 2024, and enhancements and refinements will continue during 2025. Depending on the ESG risk-assessment outcome, mitigation actions and escalation to the ESR team, for additional due diligence and (binding) advice, might be required. The process steps are as follows: • First, a materiality check is performed for all clients and transactions to determine if a company is likely to have a significant negative impact and/or dependency on an ESG factor, based on its business model. This check is data-driven and relies on the company’s primary sector and the typical negative impacts and dependencies of that sector. • Second, for material ESG factors, an initial assessment for the entity/transaction is provided. Assessing the impact of the ESG factor and reputational risk. • Third, the front office conducts a qualitative assessment and identifies potential mitigants to either reduce the impact or the financial risk of a given transaction. Additionally, the transaction is checked against the minimum standards for the sector and the list of restricted activities and companies. • Fourth, for (very) high-risk outcomes, the ESR desk performs due diligence and provides advice which may contain additional conditions or a go/no go decision. • Fifth, credit risk experts review the ESG factor assessment. Mitigants are reviewed if deemed material for credit risk. • Client-engagement strategy: A business-driven client-engagement strategy is aimed at enhancing clients’ performance and management in terms of climate change. • Data infrastructure: The ESG data infrastructure is being improved to integrate external and internal ESG data sources across the entire business line. This integration provides a foundation for ESG data-driven solutions, such as centralised corporate-client location data and EPC label data for commercial real estate, ensuring the highest possible level of granularity. • Collateral valuation for commercial real estate: Material risks affecting property value are integrated into ING’s collateral valuation practices, including initial valuation, collateral monitoring and re-valuation. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 128"
"Guidelines addressing our opportunities Based on our DMA outcome and publicly disclosed voluntary commitments, we identified several opportunities where we aim to increase our Wholesale Banking volumes mobilised, our ambition to fund the transition to a low carbon economy via our Green funding framework, and via our Terra approach through our renewable financing ambition. Our renewable financing ambition is part of our Terra approach where we aim to triple the financing of renewable power generation to EUR 7.5 billion annually by 2025. For more information, see the power sector in our ‘transition plan’. Sustainable Finance Guidelines The Sustainable Finance Guidelines provide a framework that sets out how Sustainable Finance engages with clients and specifies the products we offer. Depending on sectors, lending, debt & capital advisory, and financial markets solutions, we tailor our proposition to each client's individual needs and sustainability ambitions. This translates into different solutions, which supports the acceleration of sustainable businesses in areas including the energy transition, the circular economy and water. The guidelines are continuously updated following new product offerings (solutions) and changes in regulatory requirements. Actions to support our clients' transition Via our volume mobilised, we are committed to supporting our Wholesale Banking clients in their sustainable transition through our product offering. In 2024, we saw EUR 130 billion of volumes mobilised and updated our ambition with the new target to mobilise EUR 150 billion of annual financing by 2027, up from our previous target of EUR 125 billion annually by 2025. The volume mobilised methodology was developed as one metric for all Wholesale Banking departments that would measure the engagement with our clients on environmental, social or governance topics, regardless of sector and jurisdiction. We differentiate between green and social products and sustainability- linked products, and align with market guidance such as the Green or Social Loan/Bond Principles and the Sustainable Linked Loan/Bond Principles when structuring these sustainable finance products. Generally, for green and social products, the proceedings are dedicated to financing a specific economic activity or asset. Sustainability-linked products are a client-engagement tool and designed to change the behaviour of a client to steer their ESG transition. For more information on the detailed methodology, see the ‘Appendix to the Executive Board report’ and ing.com. The Global Green Funding Framework Our Global Green Funding Framework promotes opportunities for ING and its investors and clients in transitioning to a low-carbon economy on both sides of the balance sheet. On the asset side, we finance sustainable projects that support ING’s sustainability ambition. In particular, we finance two main portfolios. Firstly, we finance a Green Buildings portfolio in the Netherlands and Germany, where we seek to reduce significant financed emissions in real estate and contribute to the transition towards a low-carbon economy. Secondly, we finance a Global Renewables Energy Portfolio, as we strive to lead the banking sector in driving the energy transition with our renewable financing targets. On the liability side, green funding attracts investors and clients that increasingly prioritise sustainability in their investment decisions. By issuing green bonds and other green funding instruments, ING can tap into a growing market of investors, diversify our funding sources, potentially reduce our cost of capital, and provide opportunities for our investors and clients to participate in the transition towards a low-carbon economy through our green-funding product offerings. Actions to implement Green Funding Framework The framework was updated in 2024 and incorporates ING’s revised sustainability strategy and governance. It also considers the latest developments in ESG disclosure regulations. Additionally, we are implementing a sustainable asset classification system to clearly define sustainable activities within ING and its business lines, in line with the EU Taxonomy and other market standards. Furthermore, we have extended our range of green liability instruments, offering a more diversified approach to funding green initiatives. As of 31 December 2024, ING Groep N.V. has an outstanding of EUR 9.9 billion issued green bonds. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 129"
"Retail Banking: Business Banking lending ING regularly reviews its business strategy and sets decarbonisation goals for sectors identified as major drivers of negative impact. Decarbonisation efforts are supported by defining relevant processes and actions, such as data collection and controls (e.g. EPC data for income-producing real estate), specifying dedicated lending criteria for these sectors, and implementing regular monitoring procedures. ING also engages with a selection of clients that have a negative impact to better understand their current situation and plans, and to support them in their transition process. ING takes actions to manage associated risks. In line with its risk appetite, ING accepts exposure to risks inherent to its business model and its commitment to financing the transition to a net-zero economy. These risks are regularly assessed, monitored and managed through client-specific assessments across different entities, defining risk-appetite limits for exposure to transition risks, key risk indicators related to physical risks, and additional acceptance criteria for specific segments like income-producing real estate. Risks that do not align with ING’s risk appetite should be effectively mitigated or may not be accepted. Mitigation strategies may include insurance for physical risks, if possible, incorporating transition and physical risks into collateral valuation, or setting covenants that require certain investments in line with the client’s transition plan. For specific sectors, lending policies are adjusted to ensure that transition and physical risks are properly assessed and mitigated as needed. All these initiatives are supported by data collection procedures and controls tailored to specific sectors, enabling a better assessment of the current portfolio and facilitating active portfolio management. Wholesale Banking lending ING conducts regular reviews of its business strategy and sets decarbonisation objectives for Terra sectors identified as having a high negative impact. These initiatives are supported by the establishment of relevant processes and mitigation actions to address the risks associated with operating in these high-emitting sectors. • Climate Risk Appetite Statement: The primary source of negative impact in Terra sectors arises from financing high-emitting corporate clients. However, the contribution varies among clients. We assess the severity of negative impact at the client level, considering their current emissions, financial capacity for transitioning to net-zero, and the quality of their transition plans. Our client-level transition risk assessment enables us to differentiate risks effectively. High-severity impact clients are managed by setting risk appetite limits to control financing, including imposing growth constraints. A specific metric is established to manage high-risk clients in sectors with the highest GHG emissions, aligning with our decarbonisation targets and guiding future lending. • Lending policies and steering signals: All sector lending policies and steering signals reference the ESG Risk Policy and apply its minimum requirements. In the steering signals, sector transition plans, addressing climate change mitigation and adaptation challenges, are crucial in defining these signals. Lending criteria are established per sector, aligned with the steering. The lending policies include ESG factors and transmission channels relevant to each sector, detailing acceptable mitigants to address potential financial risks from ESG factors. • ESG risk assessment tool: For WB, ING has developed a new ESG risk-assessment approach, which considers the Environmental (including Climate), Social and Governance risk factors, negative impacts and dependencies of our WB customers, and fully integrates the previous ESR framework. Tooling was developed to support the implementation of the assessment approach in the credit granting process. The new approach (including addition of S&G factors) was gradually rolled out over 2024, and enhancements and refinements will continue during 2025. Depending on the ESG risk-assessment outcome, mitigation actions and escalation to the ESR team, for additional due diligence and (binding) advice, might be required. The process steps are as follows: • First, a materiality check is performed for all clients and transactions to determine if a company is likely to have a significant negative impact and/or dependency on an ESG factor, based on its business model. This check is data-driven and relies on the company’s primary sector and the typical negative impacts and dependencies of that sector. • Second, for material ESG factors, an initial assessment for the entity/transaction is provided. Assessing the impact of the ESG factor and reputational risk. • Third, the front office conducts a qualitative assessment and identifies potential mitigants to either reduce the impact or the financial risk of a given transaction. Additionally, the transaction is checked against the minimum standards for the sector and the list of restricted activities and companies. • Fourth, for (very) high-risk outcomes, the ESR desk performs due diligence and provides advice which may contain additional conditions or a go/no go decision. • Fifth, credit risk experts review the ESG factor assessment. Mitigants are reviewed if deemed material for credit risk. • Client-engagement strategy: A business-driven client-engagement strategy is aimed at enhancing clients’ performance and management in terms of climate change. • Data infrastructure: The ESG data infrastructure is being improved to integrate external and internal ESG data sources across the entire business line. This integration provides a foundation for ESG data-driven solutions, such as centralised corporate-client location data and EPC label data for commercial real estate, ensuring the highest possible level of granularity. • Collateral valuation for commercial real estate: Material risks affecting property value are integrated into ING’s collateral valuation practices, including initial valuation, collateral monitoring and re-valuation. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 128"
"Guidelines addressing our opportunities Based on our DMA outcome and publicly disclosed voluntary commitments, we identified several opportunities where we aim to increase our Wholesale Banking volumes mobilised, our ambition to fund the transition to a low carbon economy via our Green funding framework, and via our Terra approach through our renewable financing ambition. Our renewable financing ambition is part of our Terra approach where we aim to triple the financing of renewable power generation to EUR 7.5 billion annually by 2025. For more information, see the power sector in our ‘transition plan’. Sustainable Finance Guidelines The Sustainable Finance Guidelines provide a framework that sets out how Sustainable Finance engages with clients and specifies the products we offer. Depending on sectors, lending, debt & capital advisory, and financial markets solutions, we tailor our proposition to each client's individual needs and sustainability ambitions. This translates into different solutions, which supports the acceleration of sustainable businesses in areas including the energy transition, the circular economy and water. The guidelines are continuously updated following new product offerings (solutions) and changes in regulatory requirements. Actions to support our clients' transition Via our volume mobilised, we are committed to supporting our Wholesale Banking clients in their sustainable transition through our product offering. In 2024, we saw EUR 130 billion of volumes mobilised and updated our ambition with the new target to mobilise EUR 150 billion of annual financing by 2027, up from our previous target of EUR 125 billion annually by 2025. The volume mobilised methodology was developed as one metric for all Wholesale Banking departments that would measure the engagement with our clients on environmental, social or governance topics, regardless of sector and jurisdiction. We differentiate between green and social products and sustainability- linked products, and align with market guidance such as the Green or Social Loan/Bond Principles and the Sustainable Linked Loan/Bond Principles when structuring these sustainable finance products. Generally, for green and social products, the proceedings are dedicated to financing a specific economic activity or asset. Sustainability-linked products are a client-engagement tool and designed to change the behaviour of a client to steer their ESG transition. For more information on the detailed methodology, see the ‘Appendix to the Executive Board report’ and ing.com. The Global Green Funding Framework Our Global Green Funding Framework promotes opportunities for ING and its investors and clients in transitioning to a low-carbon economy on both sides of the balance sheet. On the asset side, we finance sustainable projects that support ING’s sustainability ambition. In particular, we finance two main portfolios. Firstly, we finance a Green Buildings portfolio in the Netherlands and Germany, where we seek to reduce significant financed emissions in real estate and contribute to the transition towards a low-carbon economy. Secondly, we finance a Global Renewables Energy Portfolio, as we strive to lead the banking sector in driving the energy transition with our renewable financing targets. On the liability side, green funding attracts investors and clients that increasingly prioritise sustainability in their investment decisions. By issuing green bonds and other green funding instruments, ING can tap into a growing market of investors, diversify our funding sources, potentially reduce our cost of capital, and provide opportunities for our investors and clients to participate in the transition towards a low-carbon economy through our green-funding product offerings. Actions to implement Green Funding Framework The framework was updated in 2024 and incorporates ING’s revised sustainability strategy and governance. It also considers the latest developments in ESG disclosure regulations. Additionally, we are implementing a sustainable asset classification system to clearly define sustainable activities within ING and its business lines, in line with the EU Taxonomy and other market standards. Furthermore, we have extended our range of green liability instruments, offering a more diversified approach to funding green initiatives. As of 31 December 2024, ING Groep N.V. has an outstanding of EUR 9.9 billion issued green bonds. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 129"
"Biodiversity and ecosystems Biodiversity is the variety of and interaction between all living things (red. species) which work together in ecosystems to maintain, balance and support life. It supports in nature all we need to survive, but since we put increasing pressure on the earth by using and consuming more natural resources, we are upsetting the balance of ecosystems, leading to the loss of biodiversity. Identified impacts, risks and opportunities Our double materiality assessment concluded the below negative impact and risk for ‘state of species’ within biodiversity and ecosystems as material for our Wholesale Banking portfolio: • Negative impact on the state of species occurs due to lending to clients whose operations cause irreversible damage, such as some species disappearing entirely and others undergoing significant changes in behaviour, genetic variability, distribution, and population dynamics. • Risks can materialise following the severity of a negative impact and varies across sectors. This can result in a demise in natural resources, and can disrupt clients’ operations, leading to financial losses. Financial losses can also occur due to reputational damage and litigation risks. This section only focuses on the ‘state of species’ as per our DMA outcome. The identified negative impact for state of species is driven by our portfolio composition in the downstream value chain and the irremediable nature of the negative effects. By financing these downstream activities, we contribute to a cumulative impact on species that goes beyond the initial stages of resource extraction, land use changes, overexploitation of natural resources, increased emissions, and waste (i.e. the drivers of biodiversity loss). The cumulative impact refers to the ongoing and interconnected effects that unfold over time, leading to a significant and often irreversible decline in biodiversity and ecosystem health. Some impacts, such as species extinction, are permanent. Once a species is lost, it cannot be brought back, leading to a permanent reduction in biodiversity. In addition, a significant loss in genetic variability or niche habitat also makes it immensely difficult to bring back a species to a safe state without the risk of extinction. The impact on the state of species by different activities has very different time horizons from short- to long-term. A sudden decline in species can, for example, be caused by a spill of dangerous substances, immediately killing surrounding life. Habitat fragmentation leads to a medium-term decline of the number of species and genetic variability within a species. Climate change can lead to the extinction of species and disrupt ecosystems over decades. See the ‘Technical notes to the double materiality assessment’ for more details on the approach. There is currently still a lack of well-established and scenario-based quantification methods when it comes to the topic of biodiversity and ecosystems, and nature more broadly. However, this field is rapidly developing and is looking at both transition risks, such as nature-related policy and technology changes, as well as physical risks caused by ecosystem losses and climate–nature interactions in order to integrate them into stress testing and modelling. It is estimated that more than 50 percent of global GDP depends on biodiversity, which includes the state of species. As our portfolio reflects the real economy, we expect it to have a similar dependency.1 Assessment of current financial effects is based on ING’s internal risk database. We rely on the existing approach based on the recognition and measurement criteria of provisions in the Financial Statements, for more information see Note 15 'Provisions' and Note 41 'Legal proceedings'. For 2024, there were no significant current financial effects. At this stage, we are not able to provide a more quantitative or qualitative resilience analysis or more specific time horizons. As our business is diverse and distributed across the globe, we do not consider the opinion of location-based stakeholders into our general resilience analysis; these are considered on a transaction level. Before financing specific large-scale projects, we do consider the resilience of our clients’ businesses to local biodiversity-related transition and physical risks, including those with impacts on the local population. In environmental and social management assessments, local stakeholders give key inputs into the outcome of the analysis according to the Equator Principles. For the mid- and long-term horizons, we depend on customer engagement and the ability of our borrowers to understand possible implications of biodiversity loss on their business. ING is currently developing such expertise and so are our borrowers. We are also expecting increasing regulatory pressure from the implementation of the Global Biodiversity Framework, as well as EU-led initiatives to reduce pollution, production and use of plastics and water, and increased concern about species and protected habitats. Our nature strategy The overarching ambition of our nature strategy2 is to empower our clients to contribute to halting and reversing nature loss and support the goals of the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF). Our nature approach, available on ing.com, addresses all the main drivers of nature loss that are inextricably linked to the state of species3. While these drivers are not material for our portfolio, they are relevant for the assessment of all transactions. We are currently developing a transition plan that should become operational in the coming years, building on the structure and experience of our Terra approach for climate, enabling us to engage our clients on relevant environmental topics. Although this approach is focused on nature as a Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 130 1 World Economic Forum, New Nature Economy Report 2020. 2 More information on our nature strategy, also called our nature approach, can be found on ing.com. 3 Habitat loss, over-exploitation of natural resources, pollution, and invasive species (those not native to a specific area)."
"whole, this is relevant for our material sub-topic, state of species. The below visual illustrates our current strategic approach towards nature. Policies, actions and performance As a financial institution, we can make the largest impact through our financing activities. Therefore, we have policies and guidelines in place to manage nature-related risks and impacts. ESG Risk Policy ING’s strategic objectives of managing nature-related risks and impacts are being implemented by the ESG Risk Policy. The ESG Risk Policy is a comprehensive environmental and social risk policy that evaluates material environmental risk factors in relation to our financing. This entails the evaluation of the direct drivers of biodiversity loss, climate change, land-use, sea-use or freshwater use change, pollution and the exploitation of natural resources, as well as the extent to which the company’s operations and products/ services likely impact the state of species and habitats, and the extent and condition of ecosystems, given its sector. It further assesses the extent to which the company is likely dependent on ecosystem services for its operations, products and services, given its sector. The ESG Risk Policy addresses our negative impact on the state of species, our dependencies on species and ecosystems, and our risk related to that. Our risk is lower if we finance fewer transactions that are harmful to the state of species, or support our clients in reducing their impact by implementing minimum requirements and encouraging them to improve. The ESG Risk Policy contains several biodiversity and ecosystem-specific requirements for our financing activities with the aim of avoiding further habitat destruction and species loss. These include, but are not limited to: • We will not finance any operations located in, or that significantly impact, based on experts’ assessments, UNESCO World Heritage Sites, wetlands registered by the Ramsar Convention, or critical natural habitats registered by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Category I and II. • We will not finance operations or any newly developed asset that involves illegal logging, deforestation or burning down of tropical forests, or removal of primary or High Conservation (HCV) forests. • We conduct enhanced due diligence before financing projects requiring significant land-use change, and for operations impacting IUCN Category III and IV sites or potentially vulnerable ecosystems including ‘Key Biodiversity Areas’. These are home to critical populations of the world’s threatened species. Furthermore, we have sector-specific minimum standards that aim at minimising impacts within the industry. They especially target the industry sectors chemicals, bioenergy, forestry & agricultural commodities, manufacturing, metals & mining, and shipping. Examples of restrictions to the most harmful practices within sectors with a high risk of impacting the state of species are: • ING has no intention of expanding its palm oil client base. For existing clients, ING performs strict assessment criteria that are closely monitored; • ING will not directly finance artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) companies or activities; • Use of endangered species or non-human primates for all testing/experimental purposes; and • Arctic offshore oil & gas exploration and production. Specific requirements under the ESG Risk Policy support the traceability of products, components and raw materials. For example, ING requires all relevant clients to adopt the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) schemes or the programme for the endorsement of forest certification schemes. This includes wood plantations, traders, pulp producers, and secondary processors. ING also requires production, sourcing and consumption from ecosystems to limit the impact on species. For example, we expect that our clients producing biofuels or involved in the value chain to understand and assess the climate-related, environmental and social risks related to their biofuels business, and manage and mitigate these risks Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 131"
"responsibly. This includes a request to the client to have a sustainable sourcing policy, including supplier standards, in place together with regular monitoring. As a financial institution, we do not have sustainable land, agriculture, oceans or seas policies in places for our own operations. Under our ESG Risk Policy, we do however encourage our clients to have such policies in accordance with sector initiatives such as the Rainforest Alliance Sustainable Agriculture Standard, UTZ Certified Sustainable Agriculture Practice Standard, and Sustainable Agriculture Initiative Platform. For deforestation information, see the next section. While the ESG Risk Policy and its assessment addresses both environmental and social risks, only if risks are identified does a more in-depth assessment take place that may connect biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts to social consequences. Our deforestation and ecosystem conversion approach Deforestation and other forms of ecosystem conversion is contributing significantly to the demise of species, reducing population sizes, potentially up to the point of extinction. ING’s impact is largely connected to the activities of global Wholesale Banking clients in the commodity, food and agriculture sectors, active in cattle, palm oil, soy, cocoa, and coffee. Even though ING is not in scope of EU Deforestation Regulation, we did develop an engagement approach to address deforestation and ecosystem conversion, which was updated in 2024. We map high-risk commodities and clients via an annually published assessment1, and encourage in-scope clients to put in place: 1. Commitments to achieve no-deforestation and no-ecosystem conversion2; and 2. Actions and targets to work towards full traceability in their supply chains. Full traceability helps to verify whether and where adverse impacts occur. We recognise, however, that not all our clients currently have full traceability, and therefore we plan to engage with our clients to discuss where they stand and what their commitment is. Biodiversity offsetting and the incorporation of local and indigenous knowledge or nature-based solutions may occur but are currently not formally part of this approach. For the proportion of clients unable or unwilling to progress on the conditions set by ING, we may as of 2027, on a case-by-case basis, apply stricter credit conditions on the client, or cease financing them altogether. Our Equator Principles actions The Equator Principles (EPs) are a risk management framework adopted by financial institutions for determining, assessing, and managing environmental and social risk in large infrastructure and industrial projects3 of our Wholesale Banking project clients (downstream value chain). The application of the EPs reduces negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems and therefore (reputational) risks for ING on an ongoing basis whereby time horizons depend on the relevant project. Projects are categorised depending on the impact on human rights, climate change and biodiversity as well as the country where the project will be implemented, and requirements vary depending on the category. Activities under the EPs include: environmental and social assessments; compliance with local laws; regulations and permits or international best practice standards (often supported by independent consultants); developing an environmental and social management system; biodiversity action plan (or similar); and stakeholder engagement (especially with those having local and indigenous knowledge, monitoring and reporting). Furthermore, grievance mechanisms have to be incorporated as part of the EPs to remedy those harmed. In cases where a client does not follow the conditions, ING has the right to adjust or terminate the contract. Within the EPs, ING also follows the IFC Performance Standard PS6 – Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. The standard has the aim of avoiding, minimising, and where residual impacts remain, compensating/offsetting for risks and impacts to biodiversity and ecosystems. Depending on the habitat, the standard sets restrictions and conditions on the permitted activities. The modification of the composition of the state of species is thereby used as a distinctive factor. If biodiversity offsets are proposed as a last resort, the client has the obligation to assess the project’s residual impacts and adequate mitigation. Our planned actions and targets ING aims to integrate nature in the 'Client Transition Plan'in 2025, and in our sustainability approach more generally, and started to identify and collect data that will help us to address nature and climate performance in a holistic manner. With this information we aim to strengthen ING's environmental risk assessments and enrich engagements with clients. We also aim to incentivise them to make business decisions that benefit nature and ecosystems, such as sustainability-linked loans, and reward clients for their sustainability performance linked to positive change. ING does not currently have nature-related metrics or targets in place. This is challenging due to e.g. the lack of sectoral, science-based pathways. Steering our loan book on nature is new terrain. Therefore, we collaborate with external stakeholders to advance knowledge, standards and methodologies (e.g. TNFD Forum) to ‘mainstream nature’. Internally, we are building capabilities in our own organisation e.g. by providing trainings on nature and biodiversity to colleagues, including senior management. We also use recommendations of the UN PRB Nature Target-Setting Guidance to inform on our actions to start aligning our strategy and financing activities with the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework goals. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 132 1 More information on our deforestation and ecosystem conversion approach can be found on ing.com. 2 We check such commitments based on the Accountability Framework: https://accountability-framework.org/use-the-accountability-framework/definitions/. 3 The EPs apply globally to all industry sectors and to five financial products: 1) project finance advisory services, 2) project finance, 3) project-related corporate loans, 4) bridge loans, and 5) project-related refinance and project-related acquisition finance."
"EU Taxonomy regulation The EU Taxonomy regulation is a published regulation in the Official Journal (Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of 18 June 2020) of the European Commission (EC). The EU Taxonomy is part of the EC’s overarching Green Deal and serves as a common classification system for economic activities. The regulation, which introduces a reporting obligation for non-financial and financial corporates to disclose environmentally sustainable economic activities, is based on the six environmental objectives set out by the EU: • Climate change mitigation (CCM); • Climate change adaptation (CCA); • Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources (WTR); • Transition to a circular economy (CE); • Pollution prevention and control (PPC); and • Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO). Next to the overarching regulation, two main reporting concepts are introduced in Article 8, Delegated Act EU 2021/2178 (DA): eligibility and alignment. An activity or asset is deemed eligible when it is described in the Climate Delegated Act or the Environmental Delegated Act, after which an assessment can be performed on whether it is also Taxonomy-aligned. The following visual shows when an activity or asset is deemed aligned, also referred to as ‘environmentally sustainable’: Alignment criteria Eligible activities Activities identified in the EU Taxonomy for each environmental objective Aligned activities Activities that meet the aligned criteria SC: Substantial contribution to at least one of the six environmental objectives DNSH: Do no significant harm to any of the other five environmental objectives MS: Complying with minimum safeguards Besides intrinsically sustainable activities, the EU Taxonomy also defined two specific categories: Transitional and Enabling activities. Enabling activities allow other sustainable activities to occur, like changes to the electricity grid to allow more renewable energy to be used. Transitional activities are economic activities for which there are no technologically and economically feasible low-carbon alternatives available yet, and can only qualify where the activity supports the transition to a climate-neutral economy under strict criteria. Examples are energy-efficient vessels and aircrafts. Green Asset Ratio (GAR) and other relevant key performance indicators The most relevant key performance indicator (KPI) for credit institutions is the GAR. This is determined as the proportion of taxonomy-aligned assets (numerator) that we finance in relation to total assets covered by that financing, also referred to as ‘Total GAR assets’ (denominator). The GAR is supported by the granular templates following Annex VI of DA 2021/2178. These regulatory- required templates are included in the ‘Appendix to the Executive Board report’. These templates present a detailed breakdown of ING’s balance sheet items through the lens of the EU Taxonomy, for which the Taxonomy-aligned assets are used to calculate our Green Asset Ratio. For more information on the scope of assets included with Taxonomy information, see the ‘Technical notes to the EU Taxonomy reporting’. Moreover, following Annex XII of DA 2021/2178, ING will report on Taxonomy information for gas & nuclear exposure via additional templates. The aim of these additional templates is to provide details on six specific gas & nuclear activities that are included in the Climate Delegated Act under the CCM or CCA environmental objectives that are on ING’s balance sheet and assets under management. Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model and value creation Our financial performance Our leadership and corporate governance Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Other information and appendices > Environment ING Group Annual Report 2024 133"

--- fy-2024-download-sag-annual-report-en-data ---
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 154 Start Y – Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective N – No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective N/EL – Not eligible, Taxonomy non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective EL – Taxonomy eligible activity for the relevant objective CCM - Climate change mitigation CCA – Climate change adaption WTR – Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources PPC – Pollution prevention and control CE – Transition to circular economy BIO – Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems N.R. – Not relevant"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 155 Start Templates in accordance with Annex XII of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 Template 1: Activities in the nuclear energy and fossil gas sectors Nuclear energy related activities 1 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. No 2 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. No 3 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. No Fossil gas related activities 4 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. No 5 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. No 6 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels. No Templates 2–5: Not relevant"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 156 Start Climate change Strategy Disclosure Requirement E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation As early as 2021, Sartorius identified key levers for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on the basis of a GHG emissions screening and initiated actions to reduce them. Building on this, the company is developing an ESRS-compliant climate change mitigation transition plan in fiscal 2025. Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation Sartorius’ ambition is to reduce the Group’s total GHG emissions to net zero by 2045. The Corporate Sustainability department is responsible for coordinating the topic of climate change mitigation. The company has not yet drawn up a comprehensive policy that includes general management principles and guidelines and the determination of specific responsibilities, as the initial focus – prioritized in line with resource constraints – was on launching specific climate change mitigation actions. Sartorius is currently working with internal and external experts to define a formal policy in this respect. The key content of the policy will include reducing GHG emissions and improving energy efficiency by putting various levers in place. Adapting the data basis so that the company can manage the resulting actions is fundamental to the policy. Sartorius aims to complete and publish the policy in fiscal 2025. Disclosure Requirement E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies Sartorius has already undertaken many actions at various levels to reduce GHG emissions in order to achieve its company-wide climate targets and continued to do so in the reporting year. Examples of actions underpinning the individual levers are: ▪ Energy & infrastructure: Supply contracts are gradually being converted to the purchase of electricity from renewable sources. Where it makes sense, Sartorius is installing solar panels on its own buildings. ▪ Supply chain: Sartorius has entered into dialogue with selected suppliers to discuss and agree on ways to reduce emissions. In particular, this includes the use of renewable energy. The Group is continually extending this dialogue to other suppliers. ▪ Logistics: The company is examining opportunities for reducing emissions by changing over to less GHG-intensive means of transportation. Specifically, transportation was switched from air to sea in the fiscal year. In addition, some established supply routes were converted to electric trucks with selected partners. ▪ Eco design for packaging: Packaging is being optimized in terms of its size and weight as well as the choice of material. This includes selecting less GHG-intensive materials and switching to mono-materials."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 157 Start ▪ Eco design for products: The design of products with regard to their GHG impact is particularly challenging in the pharmaceutical sector. Nevertheless, Sartorius is facing up to the task and has already launched a number of projects in this regard – including in collaboration with customers and suppliers. In particular, the focus is on alternatives to GHG-intensive crude oil-based virgin plastic. Sartorius is unable to report on the required MDR-A disclosures at this time as the Group has not yet formalized its action plan due to resource constraints. Consequently, the actions have not yet been fully quantified, scheduled, and assigned dedicated responsibilities and financial resources. The company is currently working on these steps. The results of these activities in terms of achieved and expected GHG reductions will be presented in future reports as soon as the action plan has been finalized and a consistent methodology for measuring GHG reductions has been implemented. Aside from the taxonomy-aligned operating expenditures (OpEx) and capital expenditures (CapEx) presented in the section on “Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)”, Sartorius has not reported any further OpEx and CapEx relating to climate change mitigation for the reporting year, as its climate change mitigation action plan has not yet been defined. Metrics and targets Disclosure Requirement E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation Scope 1 and 2 The Sartorius Executive Board has decided to reduce avoidable gross Scope 1 and market-based gross Scope 2 GHG emissions to zero by 2030. Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions resulting from the use of solvents and refrigerants are considered unavoidable emissions given the current state of technology. Accordingly, avoidable emissions include all energy consumption-related emissions. As vehicle fleet emissions were not available when the target was being set and so were not included in the base year, avoidable emissions are therefore defined as all stationary emissions. Likewise, biogenic CO2 emissions were not taken into account. The aforementioned Scope 1 and 2 target is an absolute GHG reduction target measured in tons of CO2eq. In addition, the Executive Board has decided that all external electricity procurement is to come from 100% renewable sources by 2030. The above-mentioned Scope 1 and 2 targets are designed to reduce GHG emissions and consequently the company’s climate-related impacts, thereby helping Sartorius achieve its ambition of reducing GHG emissions to net zero by 2045. The targets cover the stationary energy consumption-related business activities of Sartorius in its own operations worldwide and are based on the assumption that renewable energy will actually be available at Sartorius sites in 2030. The targets are based on Sartorius’ own ambitions along with the requirements of stakeholder groups and a comparison with the political and market environment. The main lever for reducing the targeted gross Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions is the use of renewable electricity and an energy-efficient building infrastructure. If Sartorius can electrify its whole building infrastructure, these targets would be fully achievable. Reduction of CO2 emission intensity In addition to the Scope 1 and Scope 2 targets, Sartorius has set itself the goal of reducing total gross GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) relative to consolidated turnover in 2021. Sartorius-specific “CO2eq emission"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 158 Start intensity” is to be reduced by an average of 10% by 2030 compared with the base year 2019. This target is integrated in the long-term remuneration components of the Executive Board, as presented in ESRS 2 GOV- 3. It is calculated from the total gross GHG emissions (see disclosure E1-6) adjusted for the GHG emissions of purchased goods and services that were not used to generate turnover in the reporting year, relative to current consolidated turnover. A relative baseline of 308 g CO2eq/EUR in 2019 calculated in this way gives a relative target of 97 g CO2eq/EUR in 2030. The relative baseline equates to an absolute baseline of 563,232 t CO2eq in 2019, and the relative target to an absolute target of 663,050 t CO2eq in 2030. In absolute terms, this means an increase in total gross GHG emissions of 18% in 2030 compared to the base year 2019. The conversion to absolute gross GHG emissions was based on the calculated CO2 emission intensity for 2030 and the anticipated consolidated turnover for 2030, multiplying the 2030 CO2 emission intensity in grams by the anticipated consolidated turnover for 2030, and converting it to tons. A growth rate of 12.5% for Group sales in the period from 2024 to 2030 was assumed. A Sartorius-specific adjustment of 10,307 t CO2eq is included in the base year and of 1,506 t Co2eq in fiscal 2024, per the GHG Protocol requirements. Sartorius has set its intensity target on the assumption of continued strong economic growth. It is based on a screening of the main GHG emission sources and the corresponding GHG reduction potentials from 2021. Scientific findings are not incorporated into the way the target is set. Without the above adjustment, the baseline for the total gross Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions is 573,539 t CO2e and the absolute target for 2030 is approximately 675,184 t CO2eq, with gross Scope 3 GHG emissions accounting for 93% of total gross GHG emissions in the base year. In Scope 3, the main lever is switching to renewable energy in the supply chain. If this lever is fully implemented, a linear increase proportional to turnover can be avoided for a large proportion of Scope 3 emissions. Evaluation of Sartorius’ climate targets No publicly recognized framework, such as the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), was used to set the Sartorius climate targets. This means for example that some of the requirements for emission coverage and the emission pathway specified in those frameworks are not met. Although the Scope 1 and 2 target achieves the required cross-sector reduction pathway of 46.2% according to SBTi (Sartorius: around 70%) on the basis of a rough estimate and assuming full electrification of the building infrastructure, it does not meet the required coverage of 95% (Sartorius: around 70%). The average annual reduction of 10% in Sartorius-specific CO2eq emission intensity achieves the necessary coverage of 95% (Sartorius: around 96%), but is not designed to achieve an absolute reduction in GHG emissions. Rather, the calculated absolute target figures indicate an increase in GHG emissions, meaning that the Group would not be in line with the cross-sector reduction path of 46.2% (Sartorius: +18%). In addition, basing an intensity target across all three scopes is only formally permissible if the actual scope-specific ambitions are identifiable. The Sartorius intensity target is not designed for this. As such, Sartorius’ climate targets are not science based and 1.5-degree-aligned. Sartorius’ climate targets will be revised in fiscal 2025 and submitted to the SBTi for external validation by October 2025. Year-on year changes No changes were made to the defined climate targets in the reporting year. However, the company has now specified the collection of GHG metrics."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 159 Start The calculation of GHG emissions was changed in the reporting year: ▪ In Scope°1, the GHG emissions of the vehicle fleet were recorded for the first time. ▪ In Scope°2, the emission factors for the market-based calculation were converted to residual mix factors where these were available and if there was no contract-specific emission factor. For the remaining emissions, the company is still using a location-based emission factor. ▪ In Scope°3, the data basis for calculating category 3.12 “End-of-life treatment of sold products” was harmonized with the data basis used in E5-5 to classify resource outflows. For the first time, category 3.4 “Upstream transportation and distribution” was calculated almost entirely based on primary data, and category 3.2 Capital goods entirely on the basis of the asset classes in the statement of changes in fixed assets. Furthermore, the calculated GHG emissions in category 3.15 “Investments” are included in the GHG inventory for the first time. In accordance with the Sartorius Restatement Policy, the base year was not adjusted due to the above-mentioned changes in the calculation of GHG emissions. The Restatement Policy provides for an adjustment if the cumulative effects from changes in the scope of consolidation and methodological adjustments exceed the company-specific limits (Scope 1-3 in total a maximum of 10% compared to the base year, individually Scope 1, 2 or 3 each a maximum of 15% compared to the base year). Monitoring target achievement The achievement of Sartorius’ climate targets is monitored based on the absolute GHG emissions in Scopes 1 and 2 and the Sartorius-specific intensity across Scopes 1, 2 and 3. Stationary energy consumption-related Scope 1 GHG gross emissions increased by 11% compared to the base year 2019. Market-related Scope 2 GHG gross emissions also increased by 11% compared to the base year 2019. Total adjusted gross GHG emissions increased by 23% compared to the base year 2019. The respective increases are due in particular to acquisitions and an expansion in production. The company-specific reduction in CO2 emissions intensity compared to the base year amounted to 7.8% and was therefore below the agreed target value of 10%. This is partly due to the fact that total GHG emissions have not yet been sufficiently reduced, particularly in Scope 3."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 165 Start Category Methodology Scope 1 The fuel consumption and fugitive emissions for solvents and refrigerants reported by the consolidated companies via the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Tool were multiplied by a specific emission factor. Scope 2 The consumption of electricity, heating, and cooling reported by the consolidated companies via the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Tool were multiplied by a specific emission factor. Scope 3 1 Purchased goods and services The weight or grouped operating expenditures for purchased goods and services from the business warehouse (BW) were multiplied by a specific emission factor. In the Purchased goods and services GHG category, the “CO2eq emission intensity” accounts only for the goods and services actually consumed for the manufacture of Sartorius’ products and services sold during the fiscal year. This means that the GHG emissions are adjusted for emissions from goods stored in the warehouse. 2 Capital goods The gross fixed asset additions from the financial consolidation system were multiplied by a specific emission factor. 3 Fuel and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) The fuel and energy consumption used to calculate Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reported by the consolidated companies via the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Tool was each multiplied by specific emission factors. 4 Upstream transportation and distribution The GHG emissions for services provided were requested direct from the carriers and added together. A small proportion that could not be covered by emission reports was either extrapolated, or to a minor extent determined based on expenditure. 5 Waste generated in operations The waste reported by the consolidated companies via the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Tool was multiplied in each case by material- and disposal-specific emission factors. 6 Business travel The train, airplane and rental car routes recorded in the central travel booking system along with the number of nights spent in hotels were each multiplied by specific emission factors. Routes and nights spent in hotels that were not recorded were extrapolated based on reported data in each case and also multiplied by a specific emission factor. 7 Employee commuting The average employee commuting distance per day was determined based on an internal employee survey from 2021. The distance was then extrapolated using the number of employees in the HR system. Next, it was adjusted using the data for on-site attendance days and estimated work weeks requested from the consolidated companies. Finally, the result was multiplied by transportation-specific emission factors. 8 Upstream leased assets The category Upstream leased assets is not applicable for Sartorius and is therefore excluded. 9 Downstream transportation and distribution GHG emissions accounted for in the Downstream transportation category were multiplied by an estimated factor for the ratio of paid to unpaid transportation activities to customers. The factor was based on an estimate prepared by an external industry expert. The expert estimate is based on the ratio of paid to unpaid transportation activities to customers from an external Sartorius warehouse that was selected based on data availability. 10 Processing of sold products The category Processing of sold products is not applicable for Sartorius. Sartorius mainly sells finished products. A small part of the portfolio can be regarded as semi- finished products, but the additional processing that they undergo is highly heterogeneous. As such, the GHG profile of the additional processing cannot be clearly mapped or plausibly calculated. Sartorius refers here to the guidance in Section 6.4 of the GHG Protocol. 11 Use of sold products Turnover generated with energy-consuming product groups was multiplied by specific energy factors determined on the basis of representative products. The resulting total energy consumption of the products sold was multiplied by a global emission factor for electricity. 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products The resource outflow weight calculated for the metrics in E5-5 was used and a percentage breakdown of disposal was calculated based on historical values, which in turn was multiplied in each case by disposal-specific emission factors. 13 Downstream leased assets The category Downstream leased assets is not applicable for Sartorius and is therefore excluded. 14 Franchises The category Franchises is not applicable for Sartorius and is therefore excluded. 15 Investments The Scope 1 and 2 emissions were extrapolated based on the head counts of the affiliates concerned, using Sartorius data."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 166 Start CO2 emission intensity is calculated from the total gross GHG emissions in E1-6, adjusted for the GHG emissions for purchased goods and services that were not used to generate turnover in the reporting year, relative to current consolidated turnover. The GHG accounting was carried out in the company’s Corporate Sustainability Tool, which is also used by the company to collect and consolidate its environmental and occupational safety-related figures. Sartorius has been using this software from a market leader for many years. Among other things, it provides the necessary emission factors for a corporate carbon footprint. The emission factors used provide the necessary country- specific granularity for the market- and location-based calculation methods and for the emissions from nights spent in hotels, for example. Another reason for using listed factors is that Sartorius relies on spend-based factors in some categories. The listed emission factor databases have provided some specific spend-based factors that, for example, covered our expenditure profile well. The table below provides a summary of the emission factors used. The emissions factors took account of all CO2 equivalents except for the AIB factors, which only include pure CO2 emissions. Emission factor database/provider Version Applied to GHG Scope Includes all relevant GHGs in accordance with IPCC VfU (03/2023) 2018 V1.4 1 Yes MLC V16.1 (05/2024) 1.2, 3 Yes DEFRA V13 (09/2024) 1.3 Yes AIB Residual Mixes V13 2023 (11/2024) 2 No Ecoinvent 3.9, 2022 3 Yes EPA V6 (10/2024) 3 Yes EPA Spend Factors 2020 3 Yes GHG Protocol V20 (07/2024) - eGRID 2022 3 Yes IEA V6 - IEA 2023 (01/2024) 3 Yes Ecometrica 2022 3 Yes Self-calculated average factors - 3 - Sartorius has not taken inflation into account when calculating expenditure- and turnover-based gross GHG emissions. This affects the categories Purchased goods and services, Capital goods, Upstream transportation and distribution, Downstream transportation, Use of sold products and End-of-life treatment of sold products. The aim here is to avoid distorting the reported turnover figure used to calculate GHG intensity and the Sartorius-specific CO2 emission intensity. Validation: There is no external validation of the metrics as a whole or the individual components. Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances: Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty: As described earlier, some Scope 3 GHG categories were calculated using estimates. ▪ 1 Purchased goods and services: Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated mainly on the basis of expenditures, with only a small portion based on the actual weight of purchased goods and services."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 167 Start ▪ 2 Capital goods: Here, emissions were calculated entirely on the basis of expenditures, i.e., without data from life cycle assessments of the capital goods. ▪ 9 Downstream transportation: Here, the emissions were estimated entirely on the basis of an expert opinion. ▪ 11 Use of sold products: The emissions were not measured by the actual energy consumption of the products, but calculated based on the estimated consumption of typical products. ▪ 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products: The emissions were based entirely on assumptions about global waste disposal, as no information was available on how customers actually disposed of the products Given the many estimates and assumptions involved, Sartorius currently treats the GHG emissions calculated on the basis of the methodologies described above as merely an indication. The GHG accounting will gradually be specified in more detail in the coming years so as to enable better management of emissions. In particular, this will involve switching from the spend-based calculation method to a more specific driver-based calculation method. Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits In the reporting period, Sartorius did not develop any projects for the removal or storage of greenhouse gases, nor did it contribute to any such projects in the upstream or downstream value chain. Please also note that the company did not purchase or plan to purchase any carbon credits during this period. As such, no emission reductions or removals were financed or intended to be financed by climate change mitigation projects outside the value chain. Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing No internal carbon pricing schemes were used or implemented in the reporting period. As such, there are no internal shadow prices, carbon fees or carbon funds that influenced decision-making or provided incentives for implementing climate-related policies and targets. Disclosure requirement E1-9 – Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks This disclosure is not currently relevant for Sartorius because no material physical risks or transition risks were identified in the reporting year."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 168 Start Pollution Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution Compliance with local environmental protection laws and requirements is a core component of the Sartorius Group-wide Code of Conduct. Sartorius also endeavors to go above and beyond legal requirements in countries where the company operates and to minimize the environmental impacts of its business activities. Responsibility for this lies with the Sartorius sites, which have put in place corresponding management systems for this purpose. These systems not only guarantee legal compliance but also promote continuous improvement in environmental performance. They also use procedural instructions to govern the handling of hazardous substances at Sartorius sites as well as emergency planning for unexpected events such as sudden pollution, an accident or a natural disaster. Some of these systems are externally certified to the recognized ISO 14001 standard. To ensure that suppliers also take responsibility, Sartorius’ Code of Conduct for Business Partners requires that its business partners have an appropriate environmental protection management system in place and take appropriate environmental protection measures. The current policy at Sartorius is not yet coordinated and monitored Group-wide. The company is currently working with internal and external experts to develop and formalize a policy in this respect that will include definitions of general management principles and guidelines and the determination of specific responsibilities. Sartorius aims to complete and publish the policy in fiscal 2025. Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution The Sartorius Group’s environmentally sensitive sites pursue environmental protection independently and provide the necessary human and financial resources. Preventing pollution caused by the use of hazardous substances is a particular priority. High volumes of hazardous substances are required in membrane production. So, for example, distillation plants are operated at the relevant sites in Göttingen, Germany, and Yauco, Puerto Rico so as to almost fully recycle the solvents in the production water and enable them to be reused. Non-recyclable solvent residues are disposed of professionally by contracted service providers. In accordance with official approvals, production wastewater is discharged into the sewage system or undergoes further treatment by external service providers. In addition, Sartorius provides transparency both locally and centrally about the hazardous substances it purchases and their use in the final products. In line with the EU Regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) or other equivalent regulations on international markets, hazardous substances are managed and customers are informed about hazardous substances in products. Suppliers’ compliance with environmental protection requirements is monitored by self-assessments and audits under Sartorius’ human rights due diligence system. The company refers to its explanations in S2-1. The actions specified are ongoing, without a fixed time horizon. The company is currently working on formalizing its actions by scoping strategic targets, i.e. quantified actions with defined time-horizons and"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 169 Start responsibilities and the requisite financial resources along with specific effectiveness monitoring. As such, the company cannot provide disclosures on financial resources at present. Likewise, achieved and expected progress on pollution as a result of these actions can also be presented in future reports as soon as a consistent methodology for measuring progress is in place. Metrics and targets Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution The company has not yet set any Group-wide targets for pollution. This is because existing management is decentralized. In formalizing the pollution prevention policy, the company is working on setting up measurable, time-bound and outcome-oriented targets, including metrics to measure effectiveness for the entire Group. The company has decided not to define Group-wide targets at present as it is concentrating on the core development and implementation of policies and actions that address the main impacts, risks and opportunities relating to environmental pollution, such as the use of hazardous substances. Disclosure Requirement E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high concern In the reporting year, the total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that were generated, used or procured during production (inflow amount) was 879 t. Most of this was reprotoxic or carcinogenic. The total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (outflow amount) was 288 t. Most of this was carcinogenic (199 t). The difference between the inflow and outflow is mainly due to the fact that Sartorius sends a certain solvent to a recycling company for treatment after several usage cycles, then repurchases it. Total amounts of substances of concern 2024 Inflow: Total amount of substances of concern that were generated, used or procured during production (t) by main hazard class: 879 Reprotoxic 672 Carcinogenic 199 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Specific target organ toxicity (single exposure) 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 Outflow: Total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (t) by main hazard class: 288 Reprotoxic 80 Carcinogenic 199 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Specific target organ toxicity (single exposure) 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 The total amount of substances of very high concern under ESRS that were generated, used or procured during production (inflow amount) was 17 t. The total amount of substances of very high concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (outflow amount) was also 17 t."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 166 Start CO2 emission intensity is calculated from the total gross GHG emissions in E1-6, adjusted for the GHG emissions for purchased goods and services that were not used to generate turnover in the reporting year, relative to current consolidated turnover. The GHG accounting was carried out in the company’s Corporate Sustainability Tool, which is also used by the company to collect and consolidate its environmental and occupational safety-related figures. Sartorius has been using this software from a market leader for many years. Among other things, it provides the necessary emission factors for a corporate carbon footprint. The emission factors used provide the necessary country- specific granularity for the market- and location-based calculation methods and for the emissions from nights spent in hotels, for example. Another reason for using listed factors is that Sartorius relies on spend-based factors in some categories. The listed emission factor databases have provided some specific spend-based factors that, for example, covered our expenditure profile well. The table below provides a summary of the emission factors used. The emissions factors took account of all CO2 equivalents except for the AIB factors, which only include pure CO2 emissions. Emission factor database/provider Version Applied to GHG Scope Includes all relevant GHGs in accordance with IPCC VfU (03/2023) 2018 V1.4 1 Yes MLC V16.1 (05/2024) 1.2, 3 Yes DEFRA V13 (09/2024) 1.3 Yes AIB Residual Mixes V13 2023 (11/2024) 2 No Ecoinvent 3.9, 2022 3 Yes EPA V6 (10/2024) 3 Yes EPA Spend Factors 2020 3 Yes GHG Protocol V20 (07/2024) - eGRID 2022 3 Yes IEA V6 - IEA 2023 (01/2024) 3 Yes Ecometrica 2022 3 Yes Self-calculated average factors - 3 - Sartorius has not taken inflation into account when calculating expenditure- and turnover-based gross GHG emissions. This affects the categories Purchased goods and services, Capital goods, Upstream transportation and distribution, Downstream transportation, Use of sold products and End-of-life treatment of sold products. The aim here is to avoid distorting the reported turnover figure used to calculate GHG intensity and the Sartorius-specific CO2 emission intensity. Validation: There is no external validation of the metrics as a whole or the individual components. Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances: Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty: As described earlier, some Scope 3 GHG categories were calculated using estimates. ▪ 1 Purchased goods and services: Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated mainly on the basis of expenditures, with only a small portion based on the actual weight of purchased goods and services."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 167 Start ▪ 2 Capital goods: Here, emissions were calculated entirely on the basis of expenditures, i.e., without data from life cycle assessments of the capital goods. ▪ 9 Downstream transportation: Here, the emissions were estimated entirely on the basis of an expert opinion. ▪ 11 Use of sold products: The emissions were not measured by the actual energy consumption of the products, but calculated based on the estimated consumption of typical products. ▪ 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products: The emissions were based entirely on assumptions about global waste disposal, as no information was available on how customers actually disposed of the products Given the many estimates and assumptions involved, Sartorius currently treats the GHG emissions calculated on the basis of the methodologies described above as merely an indication. The GHG accounting will gradually be specified in more detail in the coming years so as to enable better management of emissions. In particular, this will involve switching from the spend-based calculation method to a more specific driver-based calculation method. Disclosure Requirement E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits In the reporting period, Sartorius did not develop any projects for the removal or storage of greenhouse gases, nor did it contribute to any such projects in the upstream or downstream value chain. Please also note that the company did not purchase or plan to purchase any carbon credits during this period. As such, no emission reductions or removals were financed or intended to be financed by climate change mitigation projects outside the value chain. Disclosure Requirement E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing No internal carbon pricing schemes were used or implemented in the reporting period. As such, there are no internal shadow prices, carbon fees or carbon funds that influenced decision-making or provided incentives for implementing climate-related policies and targets. Disclosure requirement E1-9 – Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks This disclosure is not currently relevant for Sartorius because no material physical risks or transition risks were identified in the reporting year."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 168 Start Pollution Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement E2-1 – Policies related to pollution Compliance with local environmental protection laws and requirements is a core component of the Sartorius Group-wide Code of Conduct. Sartorius also endeavors to go above and beyond legal requirements in countries where the company operates and to minimize the environmental impacts of its business activities. Responsibility for this lies with the Sartorius sites, which have put in place corresponding management systems for this purpose. These systems not only guarantee legal compliance but also promote continuous improvement in environmental performance. They also use procedural instructions to govern the handling of hazardous substances at Sartorius sites as well as emergency planning for unexpected events such as sudden pollution, an accident or a natural disaster. Some of these systems are externally certified to the recognized ISO 14001 standard. To ensure that suppliers also take responsibility, Sartorius’ Code of Conduct for Business Partners requires that its business partners have an appropriate environmental protection management system in place and take appropriate environmental protection measures. The current policy at Sartorius is not yet coordinated and monitored Group-wide. The company is currently working with internal and external experts to develop and formalize a policy in this respect that will include definitions of general management principles and guidelines and the determination of specific responsibilities. Sartorius aims to complete and publish the policy in fiscal 2025. Disclosure Requirement E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution The Sartorius Group’s environmentally sensitive sites pursue environmental protection independently and provide the necessary human and financial resources. Preventing pollution caused by the use of hazardous substances is a particular priority. High volumes of hazardous substances are required in membrane production. So, for example, distillation plants are operated at the relevant sites in Göttingen, Germany, and Yauco, Puerto Rico so as to almost fully recycle the solvents in the production water and enable them to be reused. Non-recyclable solvent residues are disposed of professionally by contracted service providers. In accordance with official approvals, production wastewater is discharged into the sewage system or undergoes further treatment by external service providers. In addition, Sartorius provides transparency both locally and centrally about the hazardous substances it purchases and their use in the final products. In line with the EU Regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) or other equivalent regulations on international markets, hazardous substances are managed and customers are informed about hazardous substances in products. Suppliers’ compliance with environmental protection requirements is monitored by self-assessments and audits under Sartorius’ human rights due diligence system. The company refers to its explanations in S2-1. The actions specified are ongoing, without a fixed time horizon. The company is currently working on formalizing its actions by scoping strategic targets, i.e. quantified actions with defined time-horizons and"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 169 Start responsibilities and the requisite financial resources along with specific effectiveness monitoring. As such, the company cannot provide disclosures on financial resources at present. Likewise, achieved and expected progress on pollution as a result of these actions can also be presented in future reports as soon as a consistent methodology for measuring progress is in place. Metrics and targets Disclosure Requirement E2-3 – Targets related to pollution The company has not yet set any Group-wide targets for pollution. This is because existing management is decentralized. In formalizing the pollution prevention policy, the company is working on setting up measurable, time-bound and outcome-oriented targets, including metrics to measure effectiveness for the entire Group. The company has decided not to define Group-wide targets at present as it is concentrating on the core development and implementation of policies and actions that address the main impacts, risks and opportunities relating to environmental pollution, such as the use of hazardous substances. Disclosure Requirement E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high concern In the reporting year, the total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that were generated, used or procured during production (inflow amount) was 879 t. Most of this was reprotoxic or carcinogenic. The total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (outflow amount) was 288 t. Most of this was carcinogenic (199 t). The difference between the inflow and outflow is mainly due to the fact that Sartorius sends a certain solvent to a recycling company for treatment after several usage cycles, then repurchases it. Total amounts of substances of concern 2024 Inflow: Total amount of substances of concern that were generated, used or procured during production (t) by main hazard class: 879 Reprotoxic 672 Carcinogenic 199 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Specific target organ toxicity (single exposure) 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 Outflow: Total amount of substances of concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (t) by main hazard class: 288 Reprotoxic 80 Carcinogenic 199 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Specific target organ toxicity (single exposure) 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 The total amount of substances of very high concern under ESRS that were generated, used or procured during production (inflow amount) was 17 t. The total amount of substances of very high concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (outflow amount) was also 17 t."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 170 Start Total amounts of substances of very high concern 2024 Inflow: Total amount of substances of very high concern that were generated, used or procured during production (t) 17 by main hazard class: Reprotoxic 7 Carcinogenic 5 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 Outflow: Total amount of substances of very high concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (t) 17 by main hazard class: Reprotoxic 7 Carcinogenic 5 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 Disclosures on preparation of metrics Definitions: ▪ Substances of concern: Substances on the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) candidate list that are classified as substances of very high concern for authorization or a substance that is classified as a substance under the CLP regulation (Regulation on Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) in one of the hazard classes specified in the ESRS. ▪ Substances of very high concern: Substances on the ECHA candidate list that are classified as substances of very high concern for authorization. ▪ Substances generated, used or procured in the production process: This is the cumulative total weight of substances contained in all externally purchased physical materials and products. ▪ Substances leaving the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services: This is the cumulative total weight of substances contained in or emitted from all externally sold products. ▪ Hazard classes: These are defined based on the ECHA and the CLP. Methodology: Substances of concern that are generated, used or procured during production were identified using the purchasing system and the CLP list as the company has no standardized database. The amounts of substances of very high concern were added to this, as they likewise fall into the category of substances of concern. These substances of very high concern were determined with the help of the hazardous substances management system and an external consultant. The material weights were calculated using the material"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 171 Start master data and purchasing data. Where no net weight was available, figures were calculated by multiplying the expenditure by a self-determined weighting factor. The substances were assigned to hazard classes from the specified databases. The total amount of substances of concern leaving the company as emissions or products is assumed to be the same as the amounts purchased. The amounts of substances of concern that were returned to a recycling company for reprocessing and subsequently repurchased were deducted, as they did not leave the company as emissions or products. Validation: There is no external validation of the metrics as a whole or the individual components. Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances: Value chain estimation: This metric includes estimated data from the upstream value chain. In specific cases, some net amounts were estimated as described above, with self-calculated weighting factors. Sartorius is continuously working on improving its data processes. Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty: As explained earlier, the calculated total weight of the inflow is partly based on an estimate of the net weight of the purchased components, products and materials. Equating the resource outflow with the resource inflow causes another uncertainty. As the Group currently has no standardized database for substances of concern, the disclosures are estimated using the purchasing system. Disclosure Requirement E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from material pollution-related risks In line with ESRS, Sartorius will start reporting on the anticipated financial effects of these risks starting in 2027, as the legislator is introducing the reporting obligations gradually."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 172 Start Resource use and circular economy Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy Developing an approach to the sustainable use of resources is a complex challenge for Sartorius as a supplier to the biopharmaceutical industry. It requires the Group to harmonize various matters including sustainability but also quality, safety and efficiency requirements. For several reasons and based on various advantages, plastic-based single-use products from primary fossil feedstock, such as bags and filters, were introduced in the biopharmaceutical industry in the early 1990s. First, they help to reduce the risk of contamination that exists in stainless steel systems due to sometimes inefficient cleaning. They are also more flexible and so can be deployed more quickly in production facilities. As such, single-use technologies can speed up time-to- market for new treatments. But by law, single-use products normally have to be incinerated as contaminated waste at the end of their life. This means that recycling them is not possible as things stand in terms of current industry practice and infrastructure. These technologies are highly relevant to Sartorius’ business volume, accounting for around 60–70% of turnover. Sartorius firmly believes that it can improve resource use and circular economy factors relating to these products along the value chain. The Executive Board therefore reaffirmed its ambitions for this at the beginning of 2024, and discussed targets for managing it. In particular, this entails eco design, decoupling materials use from fossil feedstock, increasing the recyclability of products and avoiding operational landfill waste. The company has not yet drawn up a policy that includes general management principles and guidelines and the determination of specific responsibilities. Due to resource constraints, the Corporate Sustainability department is tackling topics one by one, with an initial focus on climate issues in line with the high level of internal and external interest. Sartorius is currently working on defining a formal policy. However, due to the complexity of the challenges involved, the only way to develop a specific approach to implementation is in consultation with relevant stakeholders. The Group therefore liaises ongoing with industry associations, but also bilaterally with customers, suppliers and the scientific community to discuss potential solutions. Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy Sartorius is already taking numerous actions at various levels to implement its approach to resource use and circular economy. Sartorius continued its product life cycle assessment activities in the reporting year and leveraged the findings for product design optimization potential. The company also took action to reduce its raw materials consumption and the amount of waste in the value chain and own operations: ▪ Certain products in the Lab Products & Services Division were analyzed, primarily for the circularity principles of service life, reuse, repairability and recyclability. ▪ The Bioprocess Solutions Division investigated how bio-based and recycled raw materials can be used in Sartorius products in the reporting year. The ISCC+ certified mass balance"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 173 Start approach allows these sustainable raw materials to be used in production and their sustainable properties to be transferred to the end products by means of a certificate. The sustainable raw materials need not necessarily be physically present in every product. Instead, the proportion of sustainable materials is calculated across the entire production chain and allocated to the end products. This ensures transparency and traceability in the supply chain. One advantage of this method is that the product properties remain unchanged, making it suitable for use in strictly regulated fields such as the pharmaceutical industry. In order to be able to use the mass balance approach, Sartorius began to have certain sites certified to the ISCC+ standard in the reporting year. Operational waste management is an ongoing action at some relevant production sites. This includes the avoidance, reuse, recycling and other recovery of operational waste before external disposal by contracted waste management companies. The aforementioned actions are not currently subject to a specific time horizon. Their expected outcomes include lower GHG emissions and lower pollution to the benefit of the world’s climate and ecosystem. The company is currently working on formalizing its actions by scoping strategic targets, i.e. quantified actions with defined time-horizons and responsibilities and the requisite financial resources, and monitoring their effectiveness. As such, the company cannot provide disclosures on financial resources at present. Achieved and expected progress on resource use and circular economy as a result of these actions will be presented in future reports as soon as a consistent methodology for measuring progress is in place. Metrics and targets Disclosure Requirement E5-3 - Targets related to resource use and circular economy The company is carefully analyzing the metrics first prepared and presented in ESRS E5-4 and ESRS E5-5 in fiscal 2024, to identify trends and develop and implement appropriate targets and actions. Due to resource constraints, the company has not yet implemented any targets for monitoring the effectiveness of resource use and circular economy policies and actions. In formalizing the policy, the company is working on setting up measurable, time-bound and outcome-oriented targets, including metrics to measure effectiveness for the entire Group. Disclosure Requirement E5-4 - Resource inflows Sartorius sources a wide range of raw materials and supplies to manufacture its products and product packaging – in particular, plastic, metal and electronic components and chemicals, and cardboard for product packaging. The plastics used are mostly primary materials from fossil sources. The company does not directly procure any critical materials. However, some purchased electronic components, for example chips, semiconductors and batteries, can contain i.a. critical materials like lithium, tungsten and silicon metal. In addition, rare earth metals are processed in the electronic components. The total weight of the technical and biological materials used to manufacture products and provide services during the reporting period was 20,625 t. This figure includes both the materials that were used directly in the production processes and those that were needed for packaging and additional services. The proportion of biological materials from certified sustainable sourcing cannot be determined for the 2024 reporting year. Although the company has integrated the technical requirements for this in the material master data system, it relies on information from suppliers. The company is therefore making use of a transitional"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 170 Start Total amounts of substances of very high concern 2024 Inflow: Total amount of substances of very high concern that were generated, used or procured during production (t) 17 by main hazard class: Reprotoxic 7 Carcinogenic 5 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 Outflow: Total amount of substances of very high concern under ESRS that left the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services (t) 17 by main hazard class: Reprotoxic 7 Carcinogenic 5 Persistent, Mobile and Toxic properties 4 Respiratory sensitization 1 Disclosures on preparation of metrics Definitions: ▪ Substances of concern: Substances on the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) candidate list that are classified as substances of very high concern for authorization or a substance that is classified as a substance under the CLP regulation (Regulation on Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) in one of the hazard classes specified in the ESRS. ▪ Substances of very high concern: Substances on the ECHA candidate list that are classified as substances of very high concern for authorization. ▪ Substances generated, used or procured in the production process: This is the cumulative total weight of substances contained in all externally purchased physical materials and products. ▪ Substances leaving the company’s facilities in the form of emissions, products or as part of products or services: This is the cumulative total weight of substances contained in or emitted from all externally sold products. ▪ Hazard classes: These are defined based on the ECHA and the CLP. Methodology: Substances of concern that are generated, used or procured during production were identified using the purchasing system and the CLP list as the company has no standardized database. The amounts of substances of very high concern were added to this, as they likewise fall into the category of substances of concern. These substances of very high concern were determined with the help of the hazardous substances management system and an external consultant. The material weights were calculated using the material"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 171 Start master data and purchasing data. Where no net weight was available, figures were calculated by multiplying the expenditure by a self-determined weighting factor. The substances were assigned to hazard classes from the specified databases. The total amount of substances of concern leaving the company as emissions or products is assumed to be the same as the amounts purchased. The amounts of substances of concern that were returned to a recycling company for reprocessing and subsequently repurchased were deducted, as they did not leave the company as emissions or products. Validation: There is no external validation of the metrics as a whole or the individual components. Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances: Value chain estimation: This metric includes estimated data from the upstream value chain. In specific cases, some net amounts were estimated as described above, with self-calculated weighting factors. Sartorius is continuously working on improving its data processes. Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty: As explained earlier, the calculated total weight of the inflow is partly based on an estimate of the net weight of the purchased components, products and materials. Equating the resource outflow with the resource inflow causes another uncertainty. As the Group currently has no standardized database for substances of concern, the disclosures are estimated using the purchasing system. Disclosure Requirement E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from material pollution-related risks In line with ESRS, Sartorius will start reporting on the anticipated financial effects of these risks starting in 2027, as the legislator is introducing the reporting obligations gradually."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 172 Start Resource use and circular economy Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy Developing an approach to the sustainable use of resources is a complex challenge for Sartorius as a supplier to the biopharmaceutical industry. It requires the Group to harmonize various matters including sustainability but also quality, safety and efficiency requirements. For several reasons and based on various advantages, plastic-based single-use products from primary fossil feedstock, such as bags and filters, were introduced in the biopharmaceutical industry in the early 1990s. First, they help to reduce the risk of contamination that exists in stainless steel systems due to sometimes inefficient cleaning. They are also more flexible and so can be deployed more quickly in production facilities. As such, single-use technologies can speed up time-to- market for new treatments. But by law, single-use products normally have to be incinerated as contaminated waste at the end of their life. This means that recycling them is not possible as things stand in terms of current industry practice and infrastructure. These technologies are highly relevant to Sartorius’ business volume, accounting for around 60–70% of turnover. Sartorius firmly believes that it can improve resource use and circular economy factors relating to these products along the value chain. The Executive Board therefore reaffirmed its ambitions for this at the beginning of 2024, and discussed targets for managing it. In particular, this entails eco design, decoupling materials use from fossil feedstock, increasing the recyclability of products and avoiding operational landfill waste. The company has not yet drawn up a policy that includes general management principles and guidelines and the determination of specific responsibilities. Due to resource constraints, the Corporate Sustainability department is tackling topics one by one, with an initial focus on climate issues in line with the high level of internal and external interest. Sartorius is currently working on defining a formal policy. However, due to the complexity of the challenges involved, the only way to develop a specific approach to implementation is in consultation with relevant stakeholders. The Group therefore liaises ongoing with industry associations, but also bilaterally with customers, suppliers and the scientific community to discuss potential solutions. Disclosure Requirement E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy Sartorius is already taking numerous actions at various levels to implement its approach to resource use and circular economy. Sartorius continued its product life cycle assessment activities in the reporting year and leveraged the findings for product design optimization potential. The company also took action to reduce its raw materials consumption and the amount of waste in the value chain and own operations: ▪ Certain products in the Lab Products & Services Division were analyzed, primarily for the circularity principles of service life, reuse, repairability and recyclability. ▪ The Bioprocess Solutions Division investigated how bio-based and recycled raw materials can be used in Sartorius products in the reporting year. The ISCC+ certified mass balance"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 173 Start approach allows these sustainable raw materials to be used in production and their sustainable properties to be transferred to the end products by means of a certificate. The sustainable raw materials need not necessarily be physically present in every product. Instead, the proportion of sustainable materials is calculated across the entire production chain and allocated to the end products. This ensures transparency and traceability in the supply chain. One advantage of this method is that the product properties remain unchanged, making it suitable for use in strictly regulated fields such as the pharmaceutical industry. In order to be able to use the mass balance approach, Sartorius began to have certain sites certified to the ISCC+ standard in the reporting year. Operational waste management is an ongoing action at some relevant production sites. This includes the avoidance, reuse, recycling and other recovery of operational waste before external disposal by contracted waste management companies. The aforementioned actions are not currently subject to a specific time horizon. Their expected outcomes include lower GHG emissions and lower pollution to the benefit of the world’s climate and ecosystem. The company is currently working on formalizing its actions by scoping strategic targets, i.e. quantified actions with defined time-horizons and responsibilities and the requisite financial resources, and monitoring their effectiveness. As such, the company cannot provide disclosures on financial resources at present. Achieved and expected progress on resource use and circular economy as a result of these actions will be presented in future reports as soon as a consistent methodology for measuring progress is in place. Metrics and targets Disclosure Requirement E5-3 - Targets related to resource use and circular economy The company is carefully analyzing the metrics first prepared and presented in ESRS E5-4 and ESRS E5-5 in fiscal 2024, to identify trends and develop and implement appropriate targets and actions. Due to resource constraints, the company has not yet implemented any targets for monitoring the effectiveness of resource use and circular economy policies and actions. In formalizing the policy, the company is working on setting up measurable, time-bound and outcome-oriented targets, including metrics to measure effectiveness for the entire Group. Disclosure Requirement E5-4 - Resource inflows Sartorius sources a wide range of raw materials and supplies to manufacture its products and product packaging – in particular, plastic, metal and electronic components and chemicals, and cardboard for product packaging. The plastics used are mostly primary materials from fossil sources. The company does not directly procure any critical materials. However, some purchased electronic components, for example chips, semiconductors and batteries, can contain i.a. critical materials like lithium, tungsten and silicon metal. In addition, rare earth metals are processed in the electronic components. The total weight of the technical and biological materials used to manufacture products and provide services during the reporting period was 20,625 t. This figure includes both the materials that were used directly in the production processes and those that were needed for packaging and additional services. The proportion of biological materials from certified sustainable sourcing cannot be determined for the 2024 reporting year. Although the company has integrated the technical requirements for this in the material master data system, it relies on information from suppliers. The company is therefore making use of a transitional"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 174 Start provision which applies for the first three years of reporting under ESRS and allows undertakings to omit disclosing value chain information. The weight of the reused or recycled secondary materials used for product manufacture and services was 5,129 t, accounting for 25% of the total materials used. Resource inflows 2024 Total weight of components, products and materials including packaging (t) 20,625 Proportion of biological materials from certified sustainable sourcing (%) Undeterminable Proportion of recycled components, products and materials (%) 25 Weight of recycled components, products and materials (t) 5,129 Disclosures on preparation of metrics Definitions: The main resource inflow includes the total weight of all physical products and materials used to manufacture the company’s products and services during the reporting period. To measure this, the company equates the total weight used with the total weight purchased. The metric includes all purchased raw materials, associated process materials and semi-finished products or parts, as well as packaging material. Biological material from certified, sustainable sourcing comes from sources that meet certain environmental, social and governance sustainability criteria and are externally certified by an accredited organization. Recycled material is material made from recycled or reused resources. Methodology: The resource inflow disclosures were based on the material master data and the net weight specified therein or the corresponding material attributes (material group, proportion of recycled material) multiplied by the corresponding purchase quantities in the finance system. Where no net weight is available, the weight is calculated using a self-determined weighting factor. For parts of the company that are not covered by the system, the purchased material is extrapolated. Validation: There is no external validation of the metrics as a whole or the individual components. Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances: Value chain estimation: This metric includes estimated data from the upstream value chain. In specific cases, some net weights were estimated as described above, with self-calculated weighting factors based on the ratio of purchase amount to net weight per material group from the available weight data. Sartorius is continuously working on improving its data processes. Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty: As described above, the calculated total weight of the resource inflow is partly based on an estimate of the net weight of the purchased components, products and materials."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 175 Start Disclosure Requirement E5-5 - Resource outflows Sartorius’ resource outflows are classified as products and waste. Key product categories include consumables and instruments (e.g., electronic products). The company does not currently manufacture any products that are explicitly designed according to circular principles. A large part of the product portfolio, the consumables, is in fact explicitly intended for single use due to legal requirements concerning quality and subsequent disposal by the customer. However, electronic products already address sustainability matters in that they are repairable and durable. In line with the European WEEE Directive 2012/19/EU, old appliances in the EU must also be taken back by Sartorius or by authorized partners and sent for recycling. In continuing to formalize its policy and actions on resource use and circular economy, Sartorius will examine additional possibilities for developing products according to circular principles. The expected durability of the products placed on the market by Sartorius relative to the industry average varies by product group. In the instruments product category, the expected durability of the products that Sartorius places on the market is 9 years on average. Larger biopharmaceutical devices last up to 15 years. Sartorius is not aware of the industry average and hence cannot make a statement on durability relative to the industry average. Services are used to increase the durability of sold products. However, as Sartorius offers a large number of repair and maintenance services, the company cannot make a blanket statement on increasing the durability of Group’s products. As regards repairability, Sartorius attaches particular importance to ensuring that its instruments are easy to repair. This includes the long-term provision of spare parts to extend the service life of the products and so minimize their environmental footprint. The products sold by Sartorius had an estimated recyclable content of 16%. This percentage relates to the instruments product category, where adhesive joints are largely avoided so that the individual parts can be easily separated and thus recycled. This supports the goal of a circular economy and reduces the environmental impacts of the products. In addition, 18% of the packaging is made from recyclable materials, which helps to reduce waste and conserve resources. Operational waste amounted to 8,550 t in the reporting year. Of this, 4,625 t were diverted from disposal and 3,924 t were sent for disposal, respectively accounting for 54% and 46% of total waste. The waste diverted from disposal breaks down as follows: Hazardous waste totaled 1,951 t. Of this, 0 t was sent for preparation for reuse, 556 t for recycling and 0 t for other recovery processes. Non-hazardous waste totaled 4,069 t. Of this, 29 t was sent for preparation for reuse, 4,040 t for recycling and 0 t for other recovery processes. The waste destined for disposal breaks down as follows: Hazardous waste totaled 1,395 t. Of this, 1,254 t was sent for incineration, 0 t to landfill and 140 t for other methods of disposal. Non-hazardous waste totaled 2,530 t. Of this, 750 t was sent for incineration, 977 t to landfill and 802 t for other methods of disposal. The total amount of non-recycled waste amounted to 3,925 t and accounted for 46% of total waste. The main types of waste in relevant sector-specific waste streams included hazardous waste (23%) and residual waste (22%). Other categories were waste paper (16%), plastic waste (15%), wood waste (10%) and other waste (15%)."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 176 Start None of Sartorius’ waste was radioactive (0%). Durability by product group Sartorius Industry average Consumables Not relevant Not relevant. Instruments 9 years Not known Rates of recyclable content in sold products and packaging 2024 Rate of recyclable content in products (%) 16 Rate of recyclable content in packaging (%) 18 Waste by treatment method 2024 Total waste generated in t 8,550 Waste diverted from disposal in t 4,625 Hazardous waste in t 556 Preparation for reuse 0 Recycling 556 Other recovery processes 0 Non-hazardous waste in t 4,069 Preparation for reuse 29 Recycling 4,040 Other recovery processes 0 Waste for disposal in t 3,925 Hazardous waste in t 1,395 Incineration 1,255 Landfill 0 Other disposal operations 140 Non-hazardous waste in t 2,530 Incineration 750 Landfill 977 Other disposal operations 803 Non-recycled waste in t 3,925 Non-recycled waste in % 46 Waste by type Total waste generated in t 8,550 Hazardous waste 1,951 Radioactive waste in t 0 Other hazardous waste in t 1,951 Non-hazardous waste 6,599 Residual waste in t 1,854 Plastic waste in t 1,248 Waste paper in t 1,399 Wood waste in t 839 Other unspecified waste in t 1,260"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 177 Start Disclosures on preparation of metrics Definitions: ▪ Product durability: The expected durability of products is the expected ability of a product to remain functional and relevant when used as intended. ▪ Recyclable percentage: The recyclable percentage in products and packaging refers to product content that can be sent for technical recycling. ▪ Waste: Waste is defined as the weight of accumulated waste since the beginning of the year, broken down into waste diverted from disposal and waste destined for disposal as well as hazardous and non-hazardous waste, specified according to the treatment method used in each case. Hazardous waste is also classified on the basis of national regulations. Methodology: The calculation of the recyclable percentage in product packaging is based on the data for purchased packaging, with the assumption that the purchased amounts equal the sold amounts and are not stored in warehouses. The calculation multiplies the net weight of the packaging by the purchased amount. Where no net weight is available, the weight is calculated using a self-determined weighting factor. For parts of the company that are not covered by the system, the purchased material is extrapolated. The recyclable percentage in products equates to the percentage from the instruments product group. Durability is determined by interviewing experts on typical instruments in each business area and calculating an average. Waste disclosures are prepared based on the reports submitted by the individual consolidated Group companies via the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Tool. The data reports are generally based on invoices. If the corresponding invoices are not available locally, the data are estimated using site-specific methodologies (e.g., historical data or averages). Validation: There is no external validation of the metrics as a whole or the individual components. Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances: Disclosures on value chain estimation: The metrics for the recyclable percentage in products and packaging include estimated data from the upstream value chain. In the specific case, some net weights were calculated as described above, with self-calculated weighting factors. Sartorius is continuously working on improving its data processes. Disclosures on sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty: As described above, part of the calculated total weight of the total resource outflow is based on an estimate of the net weight of the components, products and materials sold for the calculation of the recyclable portion of the products. The estimated proportion of products relates to the instruments product group, in which adhesive joints are largely dispensed with so that the individual parts are easily separable and therefore recyclable. The expected durability of products and the recyclable content in products are based on internal expert estimates. The recyclable portion of product packaging is also calculated on the assumption that the product packaging purchased corresponds to the product packaging sold, as no large stocks of packaging material"
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 178 Start are stored. The recyclable share is therefore based on the resource inflow, which includes an estimated weight share as described above under resource inflow. In addition, some of the waste reported by the consolidated Group companies to the head office is estimated in cases where the corresponding invoices are not available. Disclosure Requirement E5-6 – Anticipated financial effects from resource use and circular economy- related risks and opportunities This disclosure is not currently relevant for Sartorius because no material physical risks relating to resource use and circular economy were identified in the reporting year."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 179 Start 3. Social information Own workforce To ensure consistent reporting, the terms workforce, employees and non-employees are defined as follows and unless explicitly stated otherwise, are used consistently throughout the Statement. The company’s own workforce comprises employees and non-employees. Taking into account the national law of the parent company, the active core workforce of the consolidated Group companies is counted as employees in accordance with the definition in the German HGB. Accordingly, the following groups are excluded from the count: employees in training, employees on leave, employees on long-term absence, temporary workers and members of the Executive Board. Non-employees are contingent workers who work for but are not employed by Sartorius and are therefore excluded from payroll. At Sartorius, these are generally leasing workers. Impact, risk and opportunity management Disclosure Requirement S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce In the reporting year, Sartorius identified actual, positive impacts on its own workforce that help to boost satisfaction, loyalty and retention and so increase the recruitment and retention of skilled employees. These positive impacts concern working conditions and equal treatment and opportunities for all. This includes secure employment, working time, adequate wages, social dialogue, freedom of association, the existence of works councils and the information, consultation and participation rights of workers, collective bargaining, work-life balance, gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value, training and skills development, employment and inclusion of persons with disabilities, and diversity. At the same time, potential negative impacts with regard to health and safety as well as violence and harassment in the workplace were identified. For this reason, Sartorius is pursuing policies and standards to make working conditions and equal treatment and opportunities in the Group attractive, and to prevent adverse impacts on the workforce. Core components of the policy include the Sartorius Code of Conduct as well as the corresponding position statements on labor and social standards and on occupational health and safety, which define a common understanding of good, fair, healthy and safe working conditions within the Group. Another component is the policy statement on respect for human rights, in which the company states that it respects and promotes internationally recognized human and labor rights. This includes the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. All employees, the public, rights holders and suppliers as well as all other stakeholders of the company can access the policy statement in English on the Sartorius website. Sartorius employees can also access it via the intranet. The Corporate Sustainability department is responsible for the position statements as well as the policy statement on respect for human rights. Operational management is responsible for implementation in each case. Policies are implemented via operational process descriptions and the relevant management systems. Responsibility for implementation monitoring has not yet been officially delegated to a department."
"Sartorius Combined Group Management Report Sustainability Report 180 Start Human rights compliance monitoring is managed in particular via a specific risk management system in accordance with the requirements of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz, LkSG). The organizational structure is based on the three lines model and applies to all controlled entities of the Sartorius Group. The first line comprises the functions responsible for day-to-day business. Its task is to identify, analyze and manage operational risks relating to violations of human rights, labor standards, occupational health and safety and environmental protection. The management of human and environmental impacts, risks and opportunities is embedded in all relevant business processes and functions, to ensure an appropriate and effective response to the dynamic, ongoing assessment of human rights and environmental impacts. Relevant functions in this context include Corporate Sourcing, Environment, Health, Safety & Security and Human Resources. The first line is tasked with executing operational risk management procedures with clear responsibilities and processes. The analyses of abstract (i.e., country and industry) and actual risks are pooled – partly using artificial intelligence – by Corporate Sourcing for the supply chain and by Corporate Sustainability for each division. Sartorius also leverages synergies with existing management systems and certifications when undertaking the analyses. The first line is supported by second-line functions. As a second-line function, the Human Rights Officer works jointly with Corporate Compliance to monitor overall compliance with defined processes. The Human Rights Officer evaluates the appropriateness and effectiveness of the first line’s risk management systems. The evaluation results are reported to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board on an annual and ad hoc basis as required, along with recommendations for remedial action. The Human Rights Officer’s reporting duties are set out in detail in a corresponding delegation letter, which requires the Human Rights Officer to regularly – at least once a year – inform the entire Executive Board of Sartorius AG about her activities in this role. In addition, she must immediately inform the CEO of urgent or particularly significant cases, such as (impending) violations of protected legal interests that require remedial action, or changes in situational risk that necessitate adjustments to risk management. Internal Audit is the third line of defense and regularly conducts risk-based audits of human rights and environmental risk management. Workforce-related policies are in line with the internationally recognized procedural standards of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Compliance with the principles, rights and standards set out in the Sartorius policy statement is monitored under the compliance management system and verified by regular internal and external audits. The workforce itself is also closely involved in monitoring compliance with the policy and standards set out in the statement, and can report violations to the relevant manager, workers’ representatives, the Compliance Officer or via the compliance or whistleblowing hotline, as well as anonymously via the whistleblower portal. If substantiated human rights violations are identified, the company will work with the workforce and/or their representatives to determine appropriate remedial action. For further information on grievance management and remediation, the company refers to the disclosures in S1-3. The policy statement on respect for human rights covers human trafficking, forced labor and child labor. Requirements for safety in research and development and in applications, hazardous substances, ergonomics and mental health, including the prevention of work-related accidents, are covered by the global standard for occupational safety and specified in corresponding processes and management systems. The promotion of equal opportunities and the elimination of discrimination are written into in the Code of Conduct and the policy statement on respect for human rights. Sartorius excludes discrimination based on race and ethnic origin, skin color, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity, disability, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, and any other grounds covered by EU and national"

--- Capgemini_-_2025-03-21_-_2024_Universal_Registration_Document ---
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 197 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Decarbonizing our own operations (Scope 1, 2 and Scope 3 energy emissions) Emission reduction to date 2019 Baseline Energy efficiency Renewables Alternative fuels 2028 expected emissions Notes on chart 1) Emission reduction to date provides a view of the emission reduction already achieved 2019‐2024 for our Scope 1, 2 and Scope 3 energy emissions (T&D losses) combined). For more detail on emission reductions achieved please see Sections 4.3.3.3 and 4.3.3.5. 2) The chart gives an illustrative view for future projected emission reductions per decarbonization lever for energy efficiency, renewables and switching to alternative fuels for the period 2025‐2028. Please note that not all initiatives have been fully quantified or included within these figures. 3) The impact of business growth (past or future) has not been included in the above chart, as our experience is that the relationship between growth and energy consumption is not linear. 2. Reducing our Scope 3 emissions (purchased goods & services, business travel and commuting) The remaining 84% of our GHG emissions in the baseline year was largely from three sources: purchased goods & services (27%), business travel (30%) and employee commuting (27%). Our climate transition plan is focussed on ensuring our trajectory remains in line with both our near‐term targets (2030), and our long‐term net zero targets (2040). Realistically, the pathway towards our targets will not be linear: we are likely to see year‐on‐year shifts in Scope 3 emissions reflecting changes to our business, as well as actions within our supply chain. However, this pathway gives us a useful reference against which to measure progress, and we intend to refine it as we learn more about the forecast emissions reduction impact of our actions. Our climate transition plan has so far helped us deliver strong results in terms of reducing business travel emissions (down 51% since 2019) and employee commuting (down 19% since 2019 including the impact of working from home). The Covid pandemic undoubtedly played a role in accelerating our adoption of hybrid working and sustainable delivery models, but we have managed to sustain and even add further emission reductions in business travel emissions (down 7% in 2024 vs 2023), in spite of significant headcount growth since 2019 (up 26% since 2019). Our Scope 3 purchased goods and service emissions have proved more complex and challenging to address, particularly in a context where our business has grown so much (2024 revenue is 56% higher than 2019), which inevitably increases our spend and therefore associated emissions. As such, our focus for the next few years remains on improving the quality, accessibility and availability of GHG emissions data, as well as collaborating with suppliers to reduce emissions where feasible. As with the entire climate challenge, we will only achieve our ambitions through collaboration and partnership, with our customers, our partners, our suppliers, our sector peers, and the governments and citizens in the countries where we operate. We must all play our part and Capgemini remains committed to accelerate our transition to a sustainable, net zero future. Reducing our Scope 3 emissions Historic growth impact 2019 Baseline Emission reduction to date Initiatives planned 2028 Expected emissions Note on chart 1) Historic growth impact is based on the 2019‐2024 impact of headcount growth for business travel and commuting, and the impact of overall business growth for purchased goods and services. 2) Emission reduction to date provides a view of the emission reduction already achieved 2019‐2024. 3) Initiatives planned gives a forecast for how much further reduction is expected in Scope 3 business travel, purchased goods & services and commuting emissions 2025‐2028 once expected growth is taken into account. Please note that not all initiatives have been fully quantified or included within these figures. d) Our decarbonization levers, progress and actions Within this Section we provide a high level summary of our key areas of progress so far in delivering our climate transition plan, as well as sharing insights on future planned actions. More detail on our approach and key actions in 2024 is provided in Section 4.3,3,2 and 4.3.3.3. Some of the initiatives described are not intended to deliver significant emission reductions by 2028, but instead are focussed on building capacity and laying the essential foundations needed to move towards net zero."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 198 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Our initiatives reflect: To reduce emissions: We will prioritize actions in these areas: To drive action to meet our targets: The biggest contributors to our Scope 1 & 2 emissions FY 2024 Scope 1&2 emissions Total Scope 1& 2 Emissions 11,159 tCO2e Offices and data centers (electricity, heating, cooling) F-Gas A) Energy efficiency B) Alternative fuels C) Renewables D) F-Gas Reduction • Scope 1 & 2 near term target -80% absolute reduction by 2030 • Scope 1 & 2 long term target -90% absolute reduction by 2040 • Share of renewable electricity 100% by 2025 The biggest contributors to our Scope 3 emissions FY 2024 Scope 3 emissions Total Scope 3 Emissions 727,139 tCO2e Purchased goods and services Transmission & distribution losses Waste Business travel Employee commuting and working from home E) Extending product lifetime F) Supplier engagement and selection G) Sustainable IT H) EV Fleet I) Virtual Collaboration J) Commuting and WFH K) Education L) Business travel • Business travel emissions near term target -55% per employee reduction by 2030 • Commuting emissions near term -55% per employee reduction by 2030 • PG&S emissions near term reduction -50% absolute by 2030 • Total Scope 3 emissions long term target -90% absolute by 2040 • Share of electric vehicles in company car fleet 100% in 2030 1. Decarbonizing our own operations (Scope 1 & 2 emissions, Scope 3 energy emissions) A – Energy Efficiency We have already met and exceeded our 2040 Scope 1 and 2 target, with our Scope 1 and 2 emissions 93% lower in 2024 than they were in 2019. The major driver behind this has been our transition to renewable electricity, with 98% of our electricity coming from renewable sources in 2024. Improving our energy efficiency has also reduced our emissions, with our flagship initiative, our global Energy Command Center alongside various conservation measures helping us cut our total energy consumption by 42% since 2019. Looking forward, our energy efficiency focus will be on three main areas: 1) integrating new sites into our Global Energy Command Center (ECC) – Launched in 2022, our ECC uses the latest technology to enable digitization of our energy management approach and maintain the health of energy assets. The ECC measures various metrics such as indoor air quality, energy and water intensity, performance of critical assets, renewable electricity generation, and enables a proactive response to optimizing energy consumption. It has helped drive a 29% reduction in energy consumption across our campuses in India, with a saving of 25 GWh of electricity in 2024 vs. 2019; 2) continuing to roll out energy efficiency measures across our offices and data centers, such as installing more efficient chillers and air handling units. The continued deployment of ISO 50001 energy management certification will also continue to facilitate the identification and prioritization of specific energy conservation measures for each site; and 3) ensuring that we work with landlords to make our buildings as sustainable as possible – we have for several years been deploying sustainability criteria for how we select new office buildings, creating one of the world’s first green lease frameworks. This approach, which has been externally recognized by the Green Lease Leaders program, involves our global real estate team applying key criteria including renewable energy, energy efficiency, electric vehicle charging points, and the proximity to public transport when choosing buildings. Many of our flagship offices across the Group are highly energy efficient and have been certified under green building accreditation schemes like LEED or IGBC or BREEAM. Our focus going forward will focus on enhancing collaboration with landlords to ensure continuous improvement for the duration of the lease."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 199 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 B – Alternative Fuels Capgemini is actively exploring and implementing alternatives that reduce our reliance on natural gas, diesel and LPG (currently used in several office locations for heating, back‐up generation and cooking purposes). Our combined natural gas, LPG and diesel emissions have reduced by 58% since 2019, as we have reduced the use of these fossil‐based fuels and transitioned to alternative solutions. We have installed dual feeder electricity supply at several Indian campuses, providing a secondary connection from the state utility and reducing our reliance on diesel generators if one supply experiences an outage. Looking forward, our climate transition plan will focus on a key focus will be on deploying Bio-Compressed Natural Gas across offices in India providing a more sustainable alternative to LPG within our campus kitchens and diesel used in generators. C – Renewables Capgemini has committed to transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025, and as of the end of 2024, this transition was close to complete. 98% of our electricity consumption came from renewable sources in 2024, up from 28% in 2019. This has been achieved through a combination of installing large scale solar arrays in India (now accounting for 14% of electricity used in India), as well as the deployment of Power Purchase Agreements where feasible and procuring high quality renewable certificates elsewhere. During 2024, in collaboration with landlords, we installed solar panels in offices in Germany and Guatemala. We have also begun rolling out state‐of‐the‐art Battery Energy Storage Solutions across India to enable excess solar energy to be stored during the day and stored to be during evening peak hours, when the electricity grid tends to be more carbon intensive. Looking forward, we have an investment roadmap for the continued deployment of on‐site solar solutions and Battery Energy Storage Solutions at applicable sites. We will continue to assess the feasibility of installing on‐site solar solutions in partnership with our landlords. D – F-Gas Reduction We have reduced the fluorinated gas emissions from our air conditioning systems by 17% since 2019, with key areas of focus during this phase of the climate transition plan including: — HVAC System Upgrades: we have been upgrading heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems to more efficient models that use lower global warming potential (GWP) refrigerants; — Regular Maintenance and Leak Detection: we have enhanced maintenance protocols to include regular checks and prompt repairs of any leaks in HVAC systems. This proactive approach minimizes the release of F-gases into the atmosphere; and — Employee Training and Enhanced Monitoring: we provide training to our facility management teams on best practices for handling and disposing of F-gases and ensure F-gas emissions are monitored and reported on an ongoing basis. We will keep improving the maintenance and operation of cooling and fire suppression systems to minimize accidental releases and reflect this in our operating standards. The focus going forward of our investment in this area is particularly around upgrading to more advanced HVAC systems, which are both more energy efficient and use refrigerant gases with a lower GWP than conventional F-gas. 2. Decarbonizing our Scope 3 emissions E – Extending product lifetime Whilst the majority of our purchases relate to services, rather than physical products, IT hardware and furniture are two key purchases where we have been exploring the potential to reduce GHG emissions through working with suppliers on extending product lifetimes. Together with a leading global office furniture designer and manufacturer, we have been cataloging furniture from closing offices to maximize opportunities for reuse in new spaces or donation (see Section 4.4.2.2 for details). For our IT hardware, we have been working with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to extend the working life of our laptops through a maintenance and refurbishment program, as well as ensuring more efficient models are used where replacement is the only option. This approach helps keep equipment functional and efficient for longer and allows the progressive adoption of circularity practices. We have committed to refurbishing 10,000 laptops by the end of the 2025, and by the end of 2024, around 7,000 laptops had been refurbished, avoiding an estimated 1,000 tonnes CO2e to date. (see Section 4.3.3.3 and 4.4.2.3 for details). Our focus going forward will be on continuing to work with suppliers to develop a pragmatic approach to managing extending product lifetime whilst also developing our internal processes to support repair and reuse. F – Supplier engagement and selection For most companies, supply chain emissions are the hardest both to measure and reduce. In 2024, 41% of our carbon emissions came from our purchased goods and services, meaning tackling this challenge is fundamental to achieving net zero. At the end of 2023, we launched our Supply Chain ESG Pledge to strengthen supplier engagement and support the achievement of our carbon reduction goals. The Pledge requires suppliers to disclose their annual GHG emissions, set science‐based targets validated by SBTi, and share their climate transition and low‐carbon product strategies. Throughout 2024, we fostered collaboration through supplier events and leadership discussions, creating opportunities to explore target setting, emissions tracking, and pathways to decarbonization. Our efforts have been recognized by CDP, earning us a spot on the 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for driving meaningful climate action within our supply chain. As a CDP supply chain member, we actively support our suppliers in calculating emissions and building their climate change capabilities. This partnership has enhanced the precision of our Scope 3 data while providing deeper insights into the progress and challenges suppliers face on their journey to net zero. We will continue to incentivize and encourage more of our suppliers to share carbon footprint data with us (bilaterally, through industry forums, or via data platforms such as CDP)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 200 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 We will continue to develop our systems capabilities to analyze carbon data and enable our models to be updated with the latest data available from our suppliers and partners as they decarbonize their products and operations. We will also develop our organizational capability by deepening our understanding of carbon calculation methodologies, so that we can draw further insights from our carbon data to support decision‐making and supplier selection as well as increase our weighting of environmental assessment criteria within our RFP processes with suppliers. G – Sustainable IT Ensuring the implementation of sustainable IT practices across our operations and value chain is critical in contributing to improving our energy intensity and progressing our net zero transition. During 2024, we continued the development of our energy management software on across Group laptops to monitor and optimize energy usage. The software enables optimized configuration management, which ensures both proactive maintenance and efficiency. Additionally, we replaced hardware‐based phones with a software‐based communication solution, enabling us to decommission over 75,000 IP phones since 2021. We continue to consolidate and modernize our data center environments using private cloud platforms and we are increasing our adoption of public cloud services, which typically have lower energy consumption and carbon emissions. We are also transforming our enterprise application portfolio by investing into more modern technologies such as cloud and SaaS platforms. As an outcome of this modernization and rationalization, legacy applications are being retired from the portfolio, reducing the underlying infrastructure footprint. H – EV Fleet Our membership of the EV100 initiative commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. Capgemini has committed to transitioning its entire 12,000‐vehicle fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles by 2030. Our first phase of this climate transition plan has focussed on phasing out pure petrol and diesel cars (employees can no longer order new vehicles unless they are electric or plug‐in hybrid), as well as introducing a new cap of 50 gCO2/km for new hybrid car orders to encourage more sustainable choices. In 2024, 26% of our vehicles were pure EVs and 71% when including plug‐in hybrids. We have also installed over 2,600 electric vehicle (EV) charge points in place around the Group, providing our employees with charging for their vehicles. Our next phase, from 2025, will be to start to phase out plug‐in hybrid vehicles where practical. We will also continue to roll out more charging capabilities to support the uptake of both company and private EVs and offer financial incentives to employees who choose to lease or purchase electric vehicles. We will continue to develop partnerships with leasing companies that offer attractive deals on EVs for employees, as well as run awareness and education campaigns to inform employees about the benefits of EVs, both for the environment and for personal cost savings. Additionally, we will work with EV100 to advocate for policies and investment in public infrastructure that support wider adoption of electric vehicles, including expansion of public EV charging infrastructure in markets where we operate. I – Virtual Collaboration A significant area of focus has been on investments in IT solutions and equipment to support hybrid working and virtual collaboration, empowering our people to work seamlessly from anywhere, anytime. Building on the foundation laid during Covid, we have upgraded office spaces with advanced AV technologies, enabling efficient connections and collaboration while reducing emissions from both office commutes and business travel. During 2023, 49 meeting rooms with obsolete AV infrastructure were refreshed with more energy‐efficient AV equipment, and 185 meeting rooms were upgraded to video‐enabled meeting rooms to enhance the experience of hybrid work environments. In 2024, we continued this momentum, improving the collaboration technology in a further 1,200 meetings rooms (see Section 4.3.3.3 for details). Looking ahead, we remain focused on exploring the latest innovations and technological advances to enable employees to connect and collaborate effortlessly, reducing GHG emission from both. J – Sustainable Mobility and and Working from Home We offer a variety of country‐specific mobility programs to support sustainable commuting, which are tailored in response to the commute patterns and improvement opportunities in each country. In Germany and the Netherlands, employees benefit from comprehensive mobility packages, including public transport access for private travel, while other countries like Italy, Spain, and France offer subsidized or discounted public transport. To encourage cycling, we provide financial support for bikes and e‐bikes in countries such as the United Kingdom, Netherlands, France, and Portugal, alongside initiatives like cycling clubs and repair workshops in Germany. In the UK, employees are supported with webinars on home energy efficiency, access to energy assessments, and interest‐free loans for implementing recommended improvements. Recognizing that there are still many locations where car is the preferred option, initiatives like ride‐sharing and carpooling have been deployed for example in India, as well as EV charging infrastructure to support and encourage EV adoption across the Group are underway in multiple regions. In India, we have invested for many years in providing a comprehensive company bus service for employees. Going forward, we are looking to switch our bus fleet to bio‐compressed natural gas powered buses to reduce commuting emissions. K – Education The Sustainability Campus, launched in 2022, provides a dynamic training platform designed to equip all employees with the knowledge and tools to address environmental sustainability challenges. Continuously enriched since its inception, the Campus offers tailored programs for every role, empowering employees to understand the impact of their work and drive positive change. The Campus provides training at three levels: 1) Sustainability Awareness: A foundational module introducing key environmental sustainability challenges for our planet, our organization and our clients, updated in 2024 with a new version introduced by our Group CEO. In 2024, this training was translated into multiple languages and became mandatory for all employees, alongside ethics and cybersecurity modules; 2) Role-Specific Training: Customized modules that address the unique challenges and actionable insights for technical and non‐technical roles across the Group; and"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 201 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 3) Expertise Development: Advanced training on specialized topics linked to industry and clients offers such as hydrogen and biodiversity, food waste and biodiversity. To deepen expertise, we also launched extended programs in collaboration with leading universities such as the University of Exeter (UK), Stanford University (US), and ESSEC (France), providing participants with certification upon completion. In 2025, we plan to integrate sustainability‐related questions into our monthly global employee pulse surveys to gauge understanding and sentiment, ensuring we continue to refine our approach and foster meaningful engagement. L – Business travel During this initial phase of our climate transition plan, our first focus in 2021 was on re‐envisioning our Group Travel Policy to ensure sustainability was fully embedded, with clear guidelines around how sustainable choices should be prioritized. The policy has been strengthened further since, with a requirement that employees take the train instead of traveling by plane for all journeys that can be reached by rail in less than three hours. The policy also encourages rail travel for journeys of four hours or less. Annual travel targets are cascaded to each country by our Net Zero Board, and we monitor progress monthly through carbon dashboards, enabling us to pinpoint unexpected trends and alert key stakeholders quickly. Over the last two years, we have launched and developed a new set of travel dashboards across our global sustainability network, enabling the better tracking of travel emissions and more granular analysis of air travel in particular. These dashboards provide faster access to information about the progress of each country against our targets, as well as enabling tracking across different business units and different travel modes. They also provide very detailed insights such as the most frequent flight routes for different employee grades. To ensure locally relevant plans are in place to address business travel, we will continue cascading travel targets to each country and working with country sustainability teams to ensure action plans are in place these at a country level. Alongside this, we have reviewed and enhanced best practice guidelines for Group events, including policies on travel modes, to ensure alignment with our sustainability objectives. In 2025, we will publish comprehensive guidance to support the decarbonization of our annual events. Additionally, we will focus on enhancing our management information dashboards and carbon accounting processes to provide accurate, up‐to‐date insights that empower the business to make informed and efficient travel decisions. As part of our continuous sourcing strategy, we are also assessing the viability of leveraging sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) to support reductions in air travel emissions. 3. Our governance Our Net Zero Board provides executive level governance for our environmental sustainability program and our climate transition pathway with responsibility for monitoring climate risks and reviewing, debating, and approving the climate transition plan, as well as other sustainability plans, policies and practices for the Group. Our net zero program and our climate transition pathway are underpinned by two key management systems: our global Environmental Management System and our carbon accounting system. Please refer to Section 4.3.2 “Our governance dedicated to climate change” for more information on Governance. e) Nature and climate solutions Achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts. The voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. Carbon removal credits can also play a valuable role when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to help mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated. Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our own business, we recognize this will take time and are therefore also investing in at scale nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere now. Please refer to the Section related to Nature and Climate Solutions of Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” for more information. f) Engagement strategy Working with others across is essential to achieving an economy‐wide transition. Addressing the systemic issue of climate change requires collective action and collaboration beyond our own value chain. Please refer to Sections 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” and 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives” for more information on how we are committed to adding our voice together with other businesses from our sector and beyond, to amplify our messages, create momentum and exert pressure to accelerate action on topics where it is urgently needed. Our ability to deliver our climate transition plan will rely on sufficient investment, resources and collective action from across the whole Capgemini Group as described in this Section 4.3.3. In particular, committed investments for the period 2025 to 2027 should amount to around 16 million euros of Capex and Opex. The most significant investment planned is in India, where the majority of our employees are based and there is a very strong focus on energy efficiency in buildings, renewable energy generation and transportation initiatives. There are examples of important investments given throughout this Section 4.3.3, whilst in Section 4.6 we provide further details of capex eligible and aligned to EU Taxonomy. Committed investments have been assessed using the impairment test process implemented for the consolidated financial statements to ensure connectivity of information. Given the nature of our business, it is likely that additional investments will be decided in the coming years as we progress in the transition plan. 4.3.3.2 Policy contributing to our net zero program a) Environmental Policy 2024 Through our Environmental Policy, we have made a global commitment to continually improving our environmental performance against our Group objectives and targets (science‐ based targets where feasible) and to working with our clients to help them reduce their environmental impacts. We are also committed to train our employees on the impacts of their work on the environment and regularly consult with key stakeholders on environmental issues, ensuring our environmental program is responsive to their feedback."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 202 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) Our Group Environmental Policy is supported by targeted sub‐policies and strategies specific to each element of our 10‐point plan Our 10-point plan Col la bor ati ve gl oba l f ra me wo rk Ca rb on im pa ct s Be yo nd car bon sol uti on s Na tur e & cl im ate Bi od iv ers it y Wa te r Wa st e & ci rc ula r ec on o my Su st ain ab le IT Tr av el & sm ar t d eli ve ry En er gy Gl ob al le ad er shi p Co lle cti ve ac tio n cli ma te so lu ti on s Na tu re & Su pp ly ch ain Please see Section 4.3.2 “Our governance dedicated to climate change” for full description of the governance process around our environmental policies and strategy, including our climate policies and strategy. Ultimate accountability for the implementation of our Group Environment Policy sits with our Group CEO. Multiple stakeholders and committees are considered in the formulation and setting of environmental policies and strategies, particularly representatives from key internal functions (Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT, HR and Sustainability) as well as the Country Sustainability leads for larger Capgemini entities. The sub‐policies and strategies that underpin our Group Environment Policy are typically formulated at a function level and then debated and discussed both by the Cross-Function Committee and the Net Zero Board, with more significant decisions going to the CEO for final approval. The Group Environmental Policy is published on our website for external stakeholders, as well as being made available internally on noticeboards. 1. Energy Our focus is on ensuring our buildings are the most sustainable, operating them with optimum efficiency, and rapidly transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025. We support reducing energy consumption where practical and cost‐effective across all sites from which Capgemini operate, whilst maintaining a comfortable and productive working environment. Through the implementation of our Energy policy, we cover ISO 50001 across seven countries, as well as our continued commitment to RE100. Our buildings also meet LEED, IGBC and BREEAM certifications (please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” below for more information). Looking ahead, our strategy prioritizes achieving the highest sustainability standards for our buildings, optimizing operational efficiency, and completing the transition to 100% renewable electricity."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 203 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2. Sustainable IT Covering our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, we ensure the implementation of sustainable IT practices across our operations and value chain is critical in contributing to improving our energy intensity and progressing our net zero transition. Our sustainable IT transformation roadmap focuses on four key areas: 1) Reducing IT energy consumption: Reducing IT energy consumption and thereby lowering the use‐phase emissions from IT equipment energy usage; 2) Reducing embedded carbon footprint and adopting circularity: Reducing the embedded carbon footprint of purchased IT equipment and services, and progressively adopting circularity practices (including extending usable life of IT equipment and minimizing e‐waste); 3) Investing into sustainable IT tools and talent: Investing in sustainable IT tools and talent for monitoring, governance, and reduction of our footprint; and 4) Enabling digital collaboration: Enabling enterprise‐wide sustainable digital collaboration tools usage to support lower carbon delivery (hybrid working) models. Data Centers In our own captive data centers, we utilize energy‐efficient equipment to power the IT loads and efficient air conditioners for cooling. We monitor Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) and source our electricity from renewable sources (with 100% of electricity used at owned and leased data centers from renewable sources in 2024). We manage PUE through smart containment technology, using rack‐wise sensors controlled by an AI-powered engine. This system modulates the air conditioners and active floor tiles to optimize both cooling equipment and airflow, resulting in improved PUE across our data centers. All of this is centrally managed, monitored, and controlled via our Energy Command Center (ECC). Working with Group Procurement and our cloud infrastructure teams, where feasible we also monitor the energy consumption, PUE, water usage and carbon emissions associated with Third Party Managed Data Centers. AI and Cloud Services In terms of the growing presence of AI, our research shows that more than three‐quarters of organizations are conscious of environmental concerns around Gen AI (1). We recognize the need to weigh the immense potential of Gen AI against its cost to the planet and society. We are committed to taking a “sustainable by design” approach to developing Gen AI solutions that harness cutting‐edge data, AI, and climate tech to maximize business outcomes in a sustainable manner. Mitigation strategies include optimizing the amount of data required to train the models, working on smaller, task‐specific energy‐efficient models that employ more efficient training and operating algorithms, and powering the AI infrastructure with renewable energy as well as using more energy‐efficient data centers. We are starting to monitor energy consumption and carbon emissions associated with AI models to help promote transparency (1) Capgemini 2024, Gener(AI) ting the Future, Conversation for Tomorrow. around AI developments. Our Gen AI lifecycle analysis tools help organizations to mitigate environmental impact. Our Group IT team also has an internal policy in place to ensure that AI is not deployed without qualified use cases. These use cases are reviewed and approved by Group IT management after thorough evaluation. Recognizing the growth in this area, we are currently setting up a dedicated GenAI Board to approve use cases in the future. We also have a cloud‐first policy for building and operating IT solutions and services. Our employees are also provided with mandatory training around Generative AI, including on its sustainable and responsible use. For public cloud services, we engage leading hyper‐scalers providers that are leaders in sustainability practices. 3. Travel & Smart Delivery As a global business with over 340,000 people across more than 50 countries, travel remains a significant contributor to our carbon emissions. Our travel and smart delivery strategy comprises of three key parts: 1) Reduce business travel emissions through our low carbon digital delivery model: Our Group Travel Policy provides clear guidelines to ensure sustainable choices are prioritized. Last year, we strengthened this policy, with a requirement that employees take the train instead of traveling by plane for all journeys that can be reached by rail in less than three hours. The policy also encourages rail travel for journeys of four hours or less; 2) Transition to an electric vehicle fleet: Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow the ordering of pure petrol and diesel cars, and at the beginning of 2023, we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new car orders, which prevents the ordering of mild hybrids; 3) Reduce the impacts of employee commuting: we enable our employees to work effectively and more sustainably remotely, as well as offer several mobility support options for commuters. These range from company‐provided shuttle buses and free EV charging across some sites to heavily subsidized public transport and assistance for bike and e‐bike purchases in select countries. In some countries, we provide energy efficiency advice and support for employees working remotely, such as home energy assessments and interest‐free loans for energy‐saving improvements. Our Group Travel Policy will be reviewed in 2025 as part of a continued annual review process consulting all central functions with sustainability as an integral pillar to its development. 4. Supply Chain We have procurement processes that encourage our suppliers and business partners to provide products and services that align with our Group environmental objectives. Our ESG Pledge is now a part of our sustainable procurement engagement process with suppliers. Working with our major suppliers and partners on the pledge will support our journey to net zero."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 204 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Our strategy covers the following key areas: — engaging with our suppliers and supporting them in their net zero journeys; — setting minimum standards that our suppliers are required to follow, as well as enhanced expectations for key suppliers; — identifying high emission categories, and defining actions and strategies to reduce emissions; — incorporating sustainability into supplier selection processes, ensuring carbon impacts are visible alongside costs during decision making; and — underpinned by robust processes and systems to measure and monitor supplier emissions and emerging climate risks, with continual focus on improving data quality. Our approach to a sustainable supply chain is reflected in our commitment to reducing our absolute purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030, validated by the SBTi. Capgemini also has CDP supply chain membership to engage our suppliers, help identify climate risks and opportunities and to more accurately calculate emissions associated with our purchases. 5. Nature and Climate Solutions Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our business, with a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we are also investing in nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere today. Acting to address global net zero Currently achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts, and the voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. We know that carbon removal credits can be used when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated. However, we also believe that long‐term corporate objectives are not sufficiently addressing the high concentration levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases already in, and continuing to enter, the atmosphere today. These greenhouse gases are central to driving the current climate crisis. For these reasons, in addition to reducing our emissions as set out in our carbon reduction targets, we will retire carbon credits on a ton‐for‐ton basis against the residual carbon emissions, associated with our direct operations from 2025 and against the residual emissions including our supply chain from 2030. We recognize that questions over the integrity of carbon credits remain. We believe it is essential to align on the standards about how to best invest in carbon removals and abatement through nature and climate solutions. We welcome the ongoing work of organizations such as the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative (VCMI) and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (IC-VCM) to bring greater integrity to the supply and use of carbon credits and helping to close the loop on unsubstantiated carbon related claims. We will continue to review the developing guidelines and legislation. (1) We have excluded certain project types from our program. Most of the projects and credits available to date do not pass our assessment criteria, which includes, but is not limited to, additionality, permanence, leakage, integration with Indigenous Peoples and local communities, biodiversity, social and economic co‐benefits and contribution to systemic change. In addition, we have defined acceptable levels of emissions reductions & removals calculations according to project type. The full list has been through the highest governance channels, and it is subject to change in a rapidly evolving market. Our principles for nature and climate tech solutions Since establishing our carbon credit program, our policy and approach has been underpinned by a clear set of principles for investing in carbon credits, which are updated here. — Decarbonize first: Rapid and ambitious decarbonization of our own GHG emissions must be at the heart of our climate commitment. — Contribute to ‘global net zero’: We have a responsibility to act beyond the decarbonization of our own operations to address the impacts of the climate crisis today. — Support high‐quality carbon credit projects: We aim to secure carbon credits that are high quality, as defined by recognized independent standards and bodies. In addition, we conduct our own due diligence on projects and have established our own investment criteria dependent on project type (1). — Invest in carbon avoidance and removal projects: Our program will support a mix of projects that both avoid new greenhouse gases entering the atmosphere (e.g., avoided deforestation and improved cookstoves) and projects that remove carbon dioxide (e.g., afforestation). — Seek climate solutions with wider co‐benefits: Nature and climate projects should have wider environmental and social benefits wherever possible. For example, in support of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, co‐benefits can be achieved in relation to biodiversity in the local environment and social and economic benefits to local communities. — Invest in both nature and climate tech solutions: Our initial focus will be on nature‐based solutions because of the ability to make impact at scale in the short‐term and co‐benefits, but we are aware of their limitations. As a technology company, with entrepreneurialism as a key value, we will seek opportunities to support the development of new technologies such as direct air capture and storage which are durable and scalable. — Create a balanced carbon credit portfolio: Our portfolio will be made up of both development projects where we are a significant funder, purchase agreements with existing projects and investing through funds. Our investment projects will deliver our long‐term (up to 30 years+) supply of carbon credits. Support for existing projects and solutions (through offtake or spot credits) will ensure that we contribute to impact today. — Ensure we support projects across countries: We will support projects where possible in countries where Capgemini operates, alongside larger project development opportunities across the planet."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 205 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — Take action at a fair scale: Our levels of investment will be relevant to our carbon emissions. We will scale up investment each year to the point that retired credits are at the same level as our operational emissions by 2025 and from 2030 include our supply chain related emissions. This is as set out in our ESG Policy. — Ensure transparency: Our strategy will be transparent and aligned to best practice. Our nature and climate solutions approach is aligned with multiple third‐party standards or initiatives, including First Movers Coalition (FMC) with our commitment to contract 50,000 tons by 2030 and planting 20 million trees through 1t.org. 6. Collective Action We are committed to working collaboratively to drive action towards a more sustainable future. This starts with our people alongside our global partnerships and clients. Training and upskilling are key enablers in achieving our targets across our Group and value chain. Our Sustainability Campus launched in 2022 is accessible to all our people and centralizes our sustainability learning, including our Global Awareness Module. In 2024, the Group made the module mandatory to all employees. For our collaboration and actions with clients, please see 4.3.4. 7. Global leadership Capgemini is committed to forming global partnerships around climate action and to openly communicating our vocal support for global decarbonization and the role of technology in enabling this. For example, our membership of the LEAF Coalition – a public‐private partnership focused on halting tropical deforestation by 2030 – and the First Movers Coalition on Carbon Removal, which aims to accelerate the adoption of emerging climate technologies. These new commitments build upon several other initiatives we continue to support. such as Race to Zero, RE100 and EV100. For a full list please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” below. 4.3.3.3 Actions contributing to our net zero program a) Energy 1. Sustainable Energy Transition to 100% renewable electricity Through our membership of the RE100, we are committed to supporting the acceleration of renewable electricity, with a target to reach 100% renewable electricity by 2025. We have made strong advances, increasing our share of renewable electricity from 28% in 2019 to 98% in 2024. We have 32 countries now using 100% renewable electricity. Our renewable electricity transition has resulted in a reduction of 137,380 tCO2e since 2019. The transition is being delivered through on‐site solar and power purchase agreements (PPAs) where feasible. Energy attribute certificates are also part of our strategy for sites where energy supplies are controlled by the landlord, or in countries where our consumption is too low for a PPA to be a viable option. Capgemini India, which accounts for more than half of our electricity consumption, continues to be powered by 100% renewable electricity. Over 14,000 MWh was generated by on‐site solar PV in 2024, accounting for 14% of Capgemini India’s total electricity consumption. In addition, our campuses in Bangalore and Hyderabad, as well as both our Chennai offices are generating electricity surpluses, which are being exported to their respective state electricity grids. In 2024, 656 MWh of renewable electricity was exported to the Indian electricity grid from these four sites, powering the equivalent of around 300‐500 Indian households. We continue to focus on ensuring the data centers we use are powered by renewable electricity (including both data centers leased directly by Capgemini and those managed by third‐party suppliers). In 2024, our owned and leased data centers were powered by 100% renewable electricity and third‐party managed data centers by 88% renewable electricity. This year, we also finalized a new global contract to procure Energy Attribute certificates across the Group in line with RE 100 criteria. This will enable more centralized, more efficient management of our renewable energy certificates, as well as ensuring we maintain high quality standards across the Group. 2. Energy Management Energy Command Center Alongside our focus on renewable energy, we are improving the energy efficiency of our operations. The Energy Command Center (ECC) launched in 2022 has helped drive a 29% reduction in energy consumption across our offices in India, with a saving of 25 GWh of electricity in 2024 vs. 2019. A total of 7 facilities across France, Germany, Portugal, Poland and the United Kingdom have been surveyed in 2024 with completed feasibility assessments for ECC implementation. The ECC measures various metrics such as indoor air quality, energy and water intensity, health of critical assets, renewable energy generation, and overall performance across all energy assets. Scalable both geographically and operationally, it will enable us to manage and reduce our energy use across our offices in India and beyond. The Group extended the scope of its Energy Command Center (ECC) in India in partnership with Schneider Electric, from 6 buildings and 8 campuses (operated since 2022) to 23 campuses and more than 66 buildings. In addition, the ECC is now offered as a service, leveraging Capgemini’s and Schneider Electric’s joint expertise in energy optimization to help organizations accelerate their transition towards smarter and more sustainable energy management. We began the implementation of an automated energy data collection and validation tool, integrated with the ECC, to encompass our offices in France, Europe, LatAm, the Americas, and APAC. With India already fully integrated, the system is on track to be implemented and operational by 2025. Battery Energy Storage Solution We continue to make savings from the two state‐of‐the‐art ‘Battery Energy Storage Solutions’ (BESS) installed in our campuses: one with a capacity of 2.5 MWh in the Noida campus and the other a 3.5 MWh capacity in the Mumbai campus. These systems allow Capgemini to store excess renewable energy generated from solar plants during the day and use it during the evening peak hours, significantly reducing pressure on the grid at peak hours, as well as reducing GHG emissions and energy costs. BESS also stores energy from the grid overnight when the carbon intensity is lower. The energy is then discharged during the morning peak when the carbon intensity is higher and there is more pressure on the grid. Across the campuses, 525 Mwh of excess solar energy was stored and used for night operations, saving 376 tCO2e in 2024. These operations are scheduled and monitored by the ECC. Through peak shaving, we used BESS to store 1,417Mwh electricity during non‐peak hours which was then used during peak hours, saving over 27,000 euros and reducing pressure on the electricity grid."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 201 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 3) Expertise Development: Advanced training on specialized topics linked to industry and clients offers such as hydrogen and biodiversity, food waste and biodiversity. To deepen expertise, we also launched extended programs in collaboration with leading universities such as the University of Exeter (UK), Stanford University (US), and ESSEC (France), providing participants with certification upon completion. In 2025, we plan to integrate sustainability‐related questions into our monthly global employee pulse surveys to gauge understanding and sentiment, ensuring we continue to refine our approach and foster meaningful engagement. L – Business travel During this initial phase of our climate transition plan, our first focus in 2021 was on re‐envisioning our Group Travel Policy to ensure sustainability was fully embedded, with clear guidelines around how sustainable choices should be prioritized. The policy has been strengthened further since, with a requirement that employees take the train instead of traveling by plane for all journeys that can be reached by rail in less than three hours. The policy also encourages rail travel for journeys of four hours or less. Annual travel targets are cascaded to each country by our Net Zero Board, and we monitor progress monthly through carbon dashboards, enabling us to pinpoint unexpected trends and alert key stakeholders quickly. Over the last two years, we have launched and developed a new set of travel dashboards across our global sustainability network, enabling the better tracking of travel emissions and more granular analysis of air travel in particular. These dashboards provide faster access to information about the progress of each country against our targets, as well as enabling tracking across different business units and different travel modes. They also provide very detailed insights such as the most frequent flight routes for different employee grades. To ensure locally relevant plans are in place to address business travel, we will continue cascading travel targets to each country and working with country sustainability teams to ensure action plans are in place these at a country level. Alongside this, we have reviewed and enhanced best practice guidelines for Group events, including policies on travel modes, to ensure alignment with our sustainability objectives. In 2025, we will publish comprehensive guidance to support the decarbonization of our annual events. Additionally, we will focus on enhancing our management information dashboards and carbon accounting processes to provide accurate, up‐to‐date insights that empower the business to make informed and efficient travel decisions. As part of our continuous sourcing strategy, we are also assessing the viability of leveraging sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) to support reductions in air travel emissions. 3. Our governance Our Net Zero Board provides executive level governance for our environmental sustainability program and our climate transition pathway with responsibility for monitoring climate risks and reviewing, debating, and approving the climate transition plan, as well as other sustainability plans, policies and practices for the Group. Our net zero program and our climate transition pathway are underpinned by two key management systems: our global Environmental Management System and our carbon accounting system. Please refer to Section 4.3.2 “Our governance dedicated to climate change” for more information on Governance. e) Nature and climate solutions Achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts. The voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. Carbon removal credits can also play a valuable role when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to help mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated. Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our own business, we recognize this will take time and are therefore also investing in at scale nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere now. Please refer to the Section related to Nature and Climate Solutions of Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” for more information. f) Engagement strategy Working with others across is essential to achieving an economy‐wide transition. Addressing the systemic issue of climate change requires collective action and collaboration beyond our own value chain. Please refer to Sections 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” and 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives” for more information on how we are committed to adding our voice together with other businesses from our sector and beyond, to amplify our messages, create momentum and exert pressure to accelerate action on topics where it is urgently needed. Our ability to deliver our climate transition plan will rely on sufficient investment, resources and collective action from across the whole Capgemini Group as described in this Section 4.3.3. In particular, committed investments for the period 2025 to 2027 should amount to around 16 million euros of Capex and Opex. The most significant investment planned is in India, where the majority of our employees are based and there is a very strong focus on energy efficiency in buildings, renewable energy generation and transportation initiatives. There are examples of important investments given throughout this Section 4.3.3, whilst in Section 4.6 we provide further details of capex eligible and aligned to EU Taxonomy. Committed investments have been assessed using the impairment test process implemented for the consolidated financial statements to ensure connectivity of information. Given the nature of our business, it is likely that additional investments will be decided in the coming years as we progress in the transition plan. 4.3.3.2 Policy contributing to our net zero program a) Environmental Policy 2024 Through our Environmental Policy, we have made a global commitment to continually improving our environmental performance against our Group objectives and targets (science‐ based targets where feasible) and to working with our clients to help them reduce their environmental impacts. We are also committed to train our employees on the impacts of their work on the environment and regularly consult with key stakeholders on environmental issues, ensuring our environmental program is responsive to their feedback."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 202 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) Our Group Environmental Policy is supported by targeted sub‐policies and strategies specific to each element of our 10‐point plan Our 10-point plan Col la bor ati ve gl oba l f ra me wo rk Ca rb on im pa ct s Be yo nd car bon sol uti on s Na tur e & cl im ate Bi od iv ers it y Wa te r Wa st e & ci rc ula r ec on o my Su st ain ab le IT Tr av el & sm ar t d eli ve ry En er gy Gl ob al le ad er shi p Co lle cti ve ac tio n cli ma te so lu ti on s Na tu re & Su pp ly ch ain Please see Section 4.3.2 “Our governance dedicated to climate change” for full description of the governance process around our environmental policies and strategy, including our climate policies and strategy. Ultimate accountability for the implementation of our Group Environment Policy sits with our Group CEO. Multiple stakeholders and committees are considered in the formulation and setting of environmental policies and strategies, particularly representatives from key internal functions (Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT, HR and Sustainability) as well as the Country Sustainability leads for larger Capgemini entities. The sub‐policies and strategies that underpin our Group Environment Policy are typically formulated at a function level and then debated and discussed both by the Cross-Function Committee and the Net Zero Board, with more significant decisions going to the CEO for final approval. The Group Environmental Policy is published on our website for external stakeholders, as well as being made available internally on noticeboards. 1. Energy Our focus is on ensuring our buildings are the most sustainable, operating them with optimum efficiency, and rapidly transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025. We support reducing energy consumption where practical and cost‐effective across all sites from which Capgemini operate, whilst maintaining a comfortable and productive working environment. Through the implementation of our Energy policy, we cover ISO 50001 across seven countries, as well as our continued commitment to RE100. Our buildings also meet LEED, IGBC and BREEAM certifications (please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” below for more information). Looking ahead, our strategy prioritizes achieving the highest sustainability standards for our buildings, optimizing operational efficiency, and completing the transition to 100% renewable electricity."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 203 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2. Sustainable IT Covering our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, we ensure the implementation of sustainable IT practices across our operations and value chain is critical in contributing to improving our energy intensity and progressing our net zero transition. Our sustainable IT transformation roadmap focuses on four key areas: 1) Reducing IT energy consumption: Reducing IT energy consumption and thereby lowering the use‐phase emissions from IT equipment energy usage; 2) Reducing embedded carbon footprint and adopting circularity: Reducing the embedded carbon footprint of purchased IT equipment and services, and progressively adopting circularity practices (including extending usable life of IT equipment and minimizing e‐waste); 3) Investing into sustainable IT tools and talent: Investing in sustainable IT tools and talent for monitoring, governance, and reduction of our footprint; and 4) Enabling digital collaboration: Enabling enterprise‐wide sustainable digital collaboration tools usage to support lower carbon delivery (hybrid working) models. Data Centers In our own captive data centers, we utilize energy‐efficient equipment to power the IT loads and efficient air conditioners for cooling. We monitor Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) and source our electricity from renewable sources (with 100% of electricity used at owned and leased data centers from renewable sources in 2024). We manage PUE through smart containment technology, using rack‐wise sensors controlled by an AI-powered engine. This system modulates the air conditioners and active floor tiles to optimize both cooling equipment and airflow, resulting in improved PUE across our data centers. All of this is centrally managed, monitored, and controlled via our Energy Command Center (ECC). Working with Group Procurement and our cloud infrastructure teams, where feasible we also monitor the energy consumption, PUE, water usage and carbon emissions associated with Third Party Managed Data Centers. AI and Cloud Services In terms of the growing presence of AI, our research shows that more than three‐quarters of organizations are conscious of environmental concerns around Gen AI (1). We recognize the need to weigh the immense potential of Gen AI against its cost to the planet and society. We are committed to taking a “sustainable by design” approach to developing Gen AI solutions that harness cutting‐edge data, AI, and climate tech to maximize business outcomes in a sustainable manner. Mitigation strategies include optimizing the amount of data required to train the models, working on smaller, task‐specific energy‐efficient models that employ more efficient training and operating algorithms, and powering the AI infrastructure with renewable energy as well as using more energy‐efficient data centers. We are starting to monitor energy consumption and carbon emissions associated with AI models to help promote transparency (1) Capgemini 2024, Gener(AI) ting the Future, Conversation for Tomorrow. around AI developments. Our Gen AI lifecycle analysis tools help organizations to mitigate environmental impact. Our Group IT team also has an internal policy in place to ensure that AI is not deployed without qualified use cases. These use cases are reviewed and approved by Group IT management after thorough evaluation. Recognizing the growth in this area, we are currently setting up a dedicated GenAI Board to approve use cases in the future. We also have a cloud‐first policy for building and operating IT solutions and services. Our employees are also provided with mandatory training around Generative AI, including on its sustainable and responsible use. For public cloud services, we engage leading hyper‐scalers providers that are leaders in sustainability practices. 3. Travel & Smart Delivery As a global business with over 340,000 people across more than 50 countries, travel remains a significant contributor to our carbon emissions. Our travel and smart delivery strategy comprises of three key parts: 1) Reduce business travel emissions through our low carbon digital delivery model: Our Group Travel Policy provides clear guidelines to ensure sustainable choices are prioritized. Last year, we strengthened this policy, with a requirement that employees take the train instead of traveling by plane for all journeys that can be reached by rail in less than three hours. The policy also encourages rail travel for journeys of four hours or less; 2) Transition to an electric vehicle fleet: Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow the ordering of pure petrol and diesel cars, and at the beginning of 2023, we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new car orders, which prevents the ordering of mild hybrids; 3) Reduce the impacts of employee commuting: we enable our employees to work effectively and more sustainably remotely, as well as offer several mobility support options for commuters. These range from company‐provided shuttle buses and free EV charging across some sites to heavily subsidized public transport and assistance for bike and e‐bike purchases in select countries. In some countries, we provide energy efficiency advice and support for employees working remotely, such as home energy assessments and interest‐free loans for energy‐saving improvements. Our Group Travel Policy will be reviewed in 2025 as part of a continued annual review process consulting all central functions with sustainability as an integral pillar to its development. 4. Supply Chain We have procurement processes that encourage our suppliers and business partners to provide products and services that align with our Group environmental objectives. Our ESG Pledge is now a part of our sustainable procurement engagement process with suppliers. Working with our major suppliers and partners on the pledge will support our journey to net zero."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 204 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Our strategy covers the following key areas: — engaging with our suppliers and supporting them in their net zero journeys; — setting minimum standards that our suppliers are required to follow, as well as enhanced expectations for key suppliers; — identifying high emission categories, and defining actions and strategies to reduce emissions; — incorporating sustainability into supplier selection processes, ensuring carbon impacts are visible alongside costs during decision making; and — underpinned by robust processes and systems to measure and monitor supplier emissions and emerging climate risks, with continual focus on improving data quality. Our approach to a sustainable supply chain is reflected in our commitment to reducing our absolute purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030, validated by the SBTi. Capgemini also has CDP supply chain membership to engage our suppliers, help identify climate risks and opportunities and to more accurately calculate emissions associated with our purchases. 5. Nature and Climate Solutions Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our business, with a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we are also investing in nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere today. Acting to address global net zero Currently achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts, and the voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. We know that carbon removal credits can be used when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated. However, we also believe that long‐term corporate objectives are not sufficiently addressing the high concentration levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases already in, and continuing to enter, the atmosphere today. These greenhouse gases are central to driving the current climate crisis. For these reasons, in addition to reducing our emissions as set out in our carbon reduction targets, we will retire carbon credits on a ton‐for‐ton basis against the residual carbon emissions, associated with our direct operations from 2025 and against the residual emissions including our supply chain from 2030. We recognize that questions over the integrity of carbon credits remain. We believe it is essential to align on the standards about how to best invest in carbon removals and abatement through nature and climate solutions. We welcome the ongoing work of organizations such as the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative (VCMI) and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (IC-VCM) to bring greater integrity to the supply and use of carbon credits and helping to close the loop on unsubstantiated carbon related claims. We will continue to review the developing guidelines and legislation. (1) We have excluded certain project types from our program. Most of the projects and credits available to date do not pass our assessment criteria, which includes, but is not limited to, additionality, permanence, leakage, integration with Indigenous Peoples and local communities, biodiversity, social and economic co‐benefits and contribution to systemic change. In addition, we have defined acceptable levels of emissions reductions & removals calculations according to project type. The full list has been through the highest governance channels, and it is subject to change in a rapidly evolving market. Our principles for nature and climate tech solutions Since establishing our carbon credit program, our policy and approach has been underpinned by a clear set of principles for investing in carbon credits, which are updated here. — Decarbonize first: Rapid and ambitious decarbonization of our own GHG emissions must be at the heart of our climate commitment. — Contribute to ‘global net zero’: We have a responsibility to act beyond the decarbonization of our own operations to address the impacts of the climate crisis today. — Support high‐quality carbon credit projects: We aim to secure carbon credits that are high quality, as defined by recognized independent standards and bodies. In addition, we conduct our own due diligence on projects and have established our own investment criteria dependent on project type (1). — Invest in carbon avoidance and removal projects: Our program will support a mix of projects that both avoid new greenhouse gases entering the atmosphere (e.g., avoided deforestation and improved cookstoves) and projects that remove carbon dioxide (e.g., afforestation). — Seek climate solutions with wider co‐benefits: Nature and climate projects should have wider environmental and social benefits wherever possible. For example, in support of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, co‐benefits can be achieved in relation to biodiversity in the local environment and social and economic benefits to local communities. — Invest in both nature and climate tech solutions: Our initial focus will be on nature‐based solutions because of the ability to make impact at scale in the short‐term and co‐benefits, but we are aware of their limitations. As a technology company, with entrepreneurialism as a key value, we will seek opportunities to support the development of new technologies such as direct air capture and storage which are durable and scalable. — Create a balanced carbon credit portfolio: Our portfolio will be made up of both development projects where we are a significant funder, purchase agreements with existing projects and investing through funds. Our investment projects will deliver our long‐term (up to 30 years+) supply of carbon credits. Support for existing projects and solutions (through offtake or spot credits) will ensure that we contribute to impact today. — Ensure we support projects across countries: We will support projects where possible in countries where Capgemini operates, alongside larger project development opportunities across the planet."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 205 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — Take action at a fair scale: Our levels of investment will be relevant to our carbon emissions. We will scale up investment each year to the point that retired credits are at the same level as our operational emissions by 2025 and from 2030 include our supply chain related emissions. This is as set out in our ESG Policy. — Ensure transparency: Our strategy will be transparent and aligned to best practice. Our nature and climate solutions approach is aligned with multiple third‐party standards or initiatives, including First Movers Coalition (FMC) with our commitment to contract 50,000 tons by 2030 and planting 20 million trees through 1t.org. 6. Collective Action We are committed to working collaboratively to drive action towards a more sustainable future. This starts with our people alongside our global partnerships and clients. Training and upskilling are key enablers in achieving our targets across our Group and value chain. Our Sustainability Campus launched in 2022 is accessible to all our people and centralizes our sustainability learning, including our Global Awareness Module. In 2024, the Group made the module mandatory to all employees. For our collaboration and actions with clients, please see 4.3.4. 7. Global leadership Capgemini is committed to forming global partnerships around climate action and to openly communicating our vocal support for global decarbonization and the role of technology in enabling this. For example, our membership of the LEAF Coalition – a public‐private partnership focused on halting tropical deforestation by 2030 – and the First Movers Coalition on Carbon Removal, which aims to accelerate the adoption of emerging climate technologies. These new commitments build upon several other initiatives we continue to support. such as Race to Zero, RE100 and EV100. For a full list please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program” below. 4.3.3.3 Actions contributing to our net zero program a) Energy 1. Sustainable Energy Transition to 100% renewable electricity Through our membership of the RE100, we are committed to supporting the acceleration of renewable electricity, with a target to reach 100% renewable electricity by 2025. We have made strong advances, increasing our share of renewable electricity from 28% in 2019 to 98% in 2024. We have 32 countries now using 100% renewable electricity. Our renewable electricity transition has resulted in a reduction of 137,380 tCO2e since 2019. The transition is being delivered through on‐site solar and power purchase agreements (PPAs) where feasible. Energy attribute certificates are also part of our strategy for sites where energy supplies are controlled by the landlord, or in countries where our consumption is too low for a PPA to be a viable option. Capgemini India, which accounts for more than half of our electricity consumption, continues to be powered by 100% renewable electricity. Over 14,000 MWh was generated by on‐site solar PV in 2024, accounting for 14% of Capgemini India’s total electricity consumption. In addition, our campuses in Bangalore and Hyderabad, as well as both our Chennai offices are generating electricity surpluses, which are being exported to their respective state electricity grids. In 2024, 656 MWh of renewable electricity was exported to the Indian electricity grid from these four sites, powering the equivalent of around 300‐500 Indian households. We continue to focus on ensuring the data centers we use are powered by renewable electricity (including both data centers leased directly by Capgemini and those managed by third‐party suppliers). In 2024, our owned and leased data centers were powered by 100% renewable electricity and third‐party managed data centers by 88% renewable electricity. This year, we also finalized a new global contract to procure Energy Attribute certificates across the Group in line with RE 100 criteria. This will enable more centralized, more efficient management of our renewable energy certificates, as well as ensuring we maintain high quality standards across the Group. 2. Energy Management Energy Command Center Alongside our focus on renewable energy, we are improving the energy efficiency of our operations. The Energy Command Center (ECC) launched in 2022 has helped drive a 29% reduction in energy consumption across our offices in India, with a saving of 25 GWh of electricity in 2024 vs. 2019. A total of 7 facilities across France, Germany, Portugal, Poland and the United Kingdom have been surveyed in 2024 with completed feasibility assessments for ECC implementation. The ECC measures various metrics such as indoor air quality, energy and water intensity, health of critical assets, renewable energy generation, and overall performance across all energy assets. Scalable both geographically and operationally, it will enable us to manage and reduce our energy use across our offices in India and beyond. The Group extended the scope of its Energy Command Center (ECC) in India in partnership with Schneider Electric, from 6 buildings and 8 campuses (operated since 2022) to 23 campuses and more than 66 buildings. In addition, the ECC is now offered as a service, leveraging Capgemini’s and Schneider Electric’s joint expertise in energy optimization to help organizations accelerate their transition towards smarter and more sustainable energy management. We began the implementation of an automated energy data collection and validation tool, integrated with the ECC, to encompass our offices in France, Europe, LatAm, the Americas, and APAC. With India already fully integrated, the system is on track to be implemented and operational by 2025. Battery Energy Storage Solution We continue to make savings from the two state‐of‐the‐art ‘Battery Energy Storage Solutions’ (BESS) installed in our campuses: one with a capacity of 2.5 MWh in the Noida campus and the other a 3.5 MWh capacity in the Mumbai campus. These systems allow Capgemini to store excess renewable energy generated from solar plants during the day and use it during the evening peak hours, significantly reducing pressure on the grid at peak hours, as well as reducing GHG emissions and energy costs. BESS also stores energy from the grid overnight when the carbon intensity is lower. The energy is then discharged during the morning peak when the carbon intensity is higher and there is more pressure on the grid. Across the campuses, 525 Mwh of excess solar energy was stored and used for night operations, saving 376 tCO2e in 2024. These operations are scheduled and monitored by the ECC. Through peak shaving, we used BESS to store 1,417Mwh electricity during non‐peak hours which was then used during peak hours, saving over 27,000 euros and reducing pressure on the electricity grid."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 206 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Sustainability performance of our offices and data centers Creating sustainable and energy efficient workplaces starts with strong environmental design. Many of our flagship buildings located in India, France, Germany, Poland, Spain, and Sweden are certified under LEED, IGBC, BREEAM or equivalent green building accreditations. Capgemini’s Bangalore, Pune Hnjewadi, Talawade and Mumbai Airoli campuses in India have been awarded the Net Zero-Energy Platinum Certification by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) in recognition of their strong energy performance and use of 100% renewable electricity. The campuses showcase innovative sustainability features including an energy efficient HVAC system with district cooling, solar arrays, rainwater harvesting, electric vehicle charge points and solar‐powered streetlights. Additionally, we have installed a dual feeder electricity supply, which provides a secondary connection from the state utility and therefore reduces our use of diesel generators if one supply experiences an outage. The IGBC “Performance Challenge Award” for continuous improvement was also given to our campuses in Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Noida and Pune Talwade and Hinjewadi campuses, with Capgemini’s Bangalore campus being recognized as one of 100 Iconic Sustainable Buildings by the G20 India Presidency. 3. Green Leases Our green lease framework enables us to apply sustainability criteria when initiating new leases or renewing leases in strategic locations. It covers topics including renewable energy, energy efficiency, EV charging points, and proximity to public transport. In 2024, we updated our Green Lease Framework, transitioning our approach from specific clauses to broader Green Lease Intents. This shift reflects our recognition that clauses often impose one party’s criteria on the other, while intents foster continued collaboration. The aim is a mutually beneficial agreement, with both parties—Capgemini and the asset manager, landlord, broker, or other stakeholders—committing to close collaboration for sustainable outcomes. Our framework includes 16 intents across six key categories: governance, energy & climate, other environmental impact, capital improvements, certifications, and diversity, equity & inclusion. Of these, 12 intents are mandatory for a lease to qualify as a Green Lease. If the mandatory intents are not met, the lease is not considered a Capgemini Green Lease, though we collaborate with landlords to help them achieve full coverage. These intents are closely aligned with our transition roadmap, environmental policy, and Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi), ensuring our lease contracts reflect our sustainability commitments. Roles for implementing these intents are clearly defined as part of the lease, enabling both landlords and tenants to track progress effectively at the site level. The primary goal of this new framework is to streamline collaboration and drive continuous improvement. To further support this, in 2024, we expanded our CRES training toolbox, including green lease training to all relevant employees and third‐parties, working in partnership with one of our global brokers to deliver this program. b) Sustainable IT 1. IT energy consumption We continue to monitor and optimize energy of our laptops through our energy management software. The software enables optimized configuration management, which ensures both proactive maintenance and efficiency. As part of ongoing IT infrastructure optimization, we have achieved a 10% reduction in the amount of IT equipment (including servers, networking, communication, laptops, phones and other endpoint equipment) needed in 2024 (against 2023) through the decommissioning of equipment. We have also replaced hardware‐based phones with a software‐based communication solutions, enabling us to decommission over 75,000 phones since 2021. Additionally, we continue to transform our enterprise application portfolio by investing into more modern technologies such as cloud and SaaS platforms. As an outcome of this modernization and rationalization, legacy applications are being retired from the portfolio, reducing the underlying infrastructure footprint, with 16 apps decommissioned in 2024. We continue to consolidate and modernize our data center environments using private cloud platforms and we are increasing our adoption of public cloud services, which typically have lower energy consumption and carbon emissions. 2. IT embedded carbon footprint During 2024, we scaled up our global laptop maintenance and refurbishment program, continuing to work closely with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to extend the functional lifespan of our devices. By keeping laptops in use longer, we reduce our IT carbon footprint and ease the global demand on raw material extraction required for manufacturing new devices (for more on our circularity principles relating to IT hardware see 4.4.2.2). In 2024, around 7,000 laptops were refurbished successfully across the Group, with plans to scale this approach over the next few years. This has led to an estimated saving in Scope 3.1 emissions of 1,000 tonnes of CO2e, through avoiding the purchase of new laptops. Our digital experience tool, a software for endpoint devices that allows optimized configuration management, has enabled us to anticipate laptop failures and proactively address potential issues. We have replaced approximately 28,000 end‐of‐usable‐life desktops and monitors with laptops over the last two years (from 2021 to 2023) and reduced the number of operational desktops by approximately 3,000 in 2024. 3. Sustainable IT tools and talent To support our sustainable-IT transformation journey, we have launched several talent engagement initiatives. Building on our previous initiatives of engaging employees through a series of on‐site gamified interaction events on sustainable-IT topics to raise awareness and encourage sustainable behaviors, we rolled out our sustainable-IT quiz in 2024 with over 600 participants. We also continue to enable Group IT employees to upskill through the development of sustainability learning pathways. For promoting awareness on sustainable-IT topics, in 2024 knowledge posts were published to Group IT employees on our community portal, which are viewed by more than 35% Group IT employees on an average. In 2023, Group IT organized a Sustainable-IT-by‐design masterclass to promote adoption of eco‐design best practices into IT projects and initiatives. We have previously launched our annual data clean‐up campaign to promote sustainable digital usage behavior and knowledge among employees across the Group. In 2024, we also developed our sustainable-IT operations KPI dashboard to better monitor performance of initiatives across practices."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 207 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4. Enabling digital collaboration We have continued to extend investments to support a hybrid work culture, upgrading office spaces with AV technologies. This enables employees to connect and collaborate globally and contribute to a reduction in our commuting related footprint. During 2024, we upgraded 808 enhanced and premium meeting rooms with wireless presentation systems, improving the meeting room experience for employees, clients and suppliers. This includes the revamp of 282 enhanced meeting rooms with new, energy‐efficient AV equipment. Additionally, 413 standard meeting rooms were upgraded to support video, enhancing hybrid work environments. We also upgraded to the latest Microsoft Teams app, decom­ missioning legacy Skype and Teams apps and moving all employees globally to the same communication app. Our future actions will focus on building upon and advancing the four main thematic initiatives outlined above. This includes: — continuing to progress on our five‐year road map to rationalize our application landscape and ensure legacy applications are decommissioned, thereby reducing our energy consumption and carbon emissions; — continuing to transition from on‐premises to move to energy efficient cloud‐based infrastructure, delivering energy savings and carbon emission reductions; — continuing to work with original equipment manufacturers and their value chain on the repair and refurbishment of laptops, reducing our Scope 3.1 emissions from hardware. c) Travel & Smart Delivery 1. Business Travel We have started to see business travel emissions reduce once again (down 3.6% per employee vs. 2023). Overall, our overall business travel emissions are 51% lower than they were in 2019, resulting in an absolute reduction of 173,547 tCO2e since then. This reflects the enduring shift to hybrid working and virtual collaboration with clients, following the Covid pandemic. During 2024, we continued to invest in IT solutions and equipment to support hybrid working and virtual collaboration, enabling our people to work from anywhere at any time. In 2024, we developed our travel dashboards across our global sustainability network, enabling the better tracking of travel emissions and more granular analysis of air travel in particular. These dashboards provide faster access to information about the progress of each country against our targets, as well as enabling tracking across different business units and different travel modes. They also provide very detailed insights such as the most frequent flight routes for different employee grades. 2. Transitioning to an electric vehicle fleet Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow employees to order pure petrol and diesel cars, and last year we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new hybrid car orders. Capgemini has committed to transitioning its entire 12,000‐vehicle fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles by 2030, with Belgium for example already ordering a fully electric fleet. In 2024, the share of pure EVs was 26% and 71% when including plug‐in hybrids. We have over 2,600 electric vehicle (EV) charge points in place around the Group, providing our employees with charging for their vehicles. Our next step, from 2025, will be to phase out plug‐in hybrid vehicles, where practical. 3. Reducing the impacts of employee commuting In 2024, we conducted our sixth global commuting survey to understand our employees’ commuting habits, as well as the impacts of home working, including the emissions associated with heating, cooling, and powering IT equipment. In total, we had 81,000 people (a quarter of our workforce) respond to our employee commuting survey in 2024. The results have shown an 10% increase in commuting emissions per employee since 2023 due to continued return to working from the office following the Covid pandemic. Overall, though, the shift to hybrid working continues to hold emissions at below pre‐pandemic levels, with commuting emissions per employee down by 49% vs. 2019 (or by 36% vs. 2019 when the impact of working from home is included). In 2024, we have reduced our employee commuting emissions (including working from home) by 60,084 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019. We will continue to conduct our annual commuting survey to build a comprehensive picture on how our people commute and work from home. This will enable us to continue to build our knowledge and define policies that will keep us on track to our targets. Key actions to support employees to tackle commuting and work from home impacts: — Mobility packages – There are a range of country‐specific mobility packages available to employees. These include very comprehensive mobility arrangements in Germany and Netherlands, which enable employees to use public transport even for their private travel, as well as subsidized or heavily discounted public transport in Italy, Spain and France; — Bicycles and e‐bicycles – Across France, Germany, Netherlands, Portugal and the United Kingdom, a range of support measures are in place to encourage uptake of bikes and e‐bikes, including financial help with buying or loaning a bike (UK, Netherlands, France and Portugal). In Germany, cycling clubs are offered, as well as cycle workshops to provide assistance with repairs. We currently offer bike leasing through localized approaches. Moving forward, we plan to review the program with a more holistic and global perspective, aligning it with employee preferences and ensuring it remains accessible and effective across all regions; and — Home Energy – In the United Kingdom, a series of webinars were held in partnership with the Big Clean Switch to advise employees on improving energy efficiency at home, with around 4,000 of our people attending. Employees are also supported through the provision of access to home energy assessments, to help them identify how they can improve the energy efficiency of their home. We also offer interest‐free loans for employees who would like to move forward with the recommendations from these assessments;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 208 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — Buses – We provide company bus services across all our major sites in India, as well as our offices in Spain (Madrid) and Italy (Rome). In India, we plan to transition to buses powered by bio‐compressed natural gas to reduce our commuting emissions; and — Car share – Across several regions we are planning, or already have in place, ride sharing and carpooling initiatives to reduce emissions. d) Supply Chain 1. Engaging with our suppliers Working with our suppliers is pivotal in advancing our environmental strategy. Supplier engagement continued in 2024 with our supplier day and CPO roundtable events providing platforms for discussing target setting, emissions data capture and low‐carbon pathways. We continue to be recognized by CDP for our efforts to engage with our suppliers on the topic of climate change, achieving a place on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard. In 2025, we intend to collaborate and support suppliers even further by creating training material aligned with the contents of the ESG Pledge and sustainable procurement Policy. This will allow suppliers to improve their knowledge base and have access to tools that will enable them to improve their actions no matter where they are on their own environmental journey. We have also started to integrate environmental criteria into our supplier selection for our main categories (IT Hardware, IT Network and Facility Management). In 2025, we are planning to continue this roll‐out as well as produce material for our suppliers, including basic starter knowledge as well as concrete uses cases to reduce carbon emissions. 2. ESG Pledge In 2024, we continued to roll out our Supply Chain ESG Pledge launched last year, aiming to build strong supplier engagement towards supporting the achievement of Capgemini’s carbon reduction goals. The ESG Pledge requires suppliers to disclose their annual GHG emissions, set science‐based targets validated by SBTi, and share their climate transition and low‐carbon product strategies. By the end of 2024, suppliers representing 35% of our total spend had agreed to commit to the ESG Pledge or are aligned to its principles. Any other actions taken or planned by suppliers are encouraged and can be formalized as voluntary contributions to be committed to within the pledge. Going forward, we plan to make our ESG Pledge more inclusive by extending beyond carbon to encompass critical areas, such as biodiversity, water‐related topics, and addressing broader nature‐focused concerns. This pledge will also integrate wider sustainability objectives and social aspects, fostering a more comprehensive approach to environmental, social, and governance priorities. 3. CDP supply chain membership Our CDP supply chain membership helps us to support our suppliers in calculating their emissions and advancing their climate change understanding. This collaboration has improved the accuracy of our Scope 3 data but also enhanced our insight into the challenges and progress of our suppliers towards net zero. In 2024, the 184 suppliers who responded to our CDP request demonstrated they had already made progress in tackling climate change; around 49% have set science‐based targets, with 56% having a climate transition plan aligned with 1.5C. 4. Embedding sustainability training To ensure a cohesive approach to our net zero goal, it is essential to raise awareness among employees about the environmental implications of their procurement decisions. In 2024, we continued to provide sustainability and carbon accounting training to targeted procurement teams in high emission purchasing categories. We have also redeveloped the set of training available to procurement professionals. This training embeds fundamental knowledge on ESG challenges and concrete actions, as well as best practices that can be deployed with suppliers for carbon emissions reductions. 5. Supplier assessment via an ESG assessment tool and during procurement sourcing process: Capgemini is currently deploying a dedicated ESG assessment platform, which will be fully operational in 2025 (see Section 4.11.7 for more details). This will enable Group Procurement to assess suppliers’ maturity on a range of environmental topics and identify risks within our supply chain. Following risk identification, Capgemini can discuss action plans with suppliers to improve their compliance and business resilience. The four main environmental risk areas categorized within our supplier assessment are pollution, waste, substances of concern and GHG emissions. In 2025, we will also continue refining and adapting our procurement processes to make sure environmental criteria are fully embedded and taking a bigger weight into our sourcing processes. Our future actions will focus on building upon and advancing the five main thematic initiatives outlined above. Beyond the Procurement‐specific pillars above, our Group Procurement team is actively collaborating with Group IT and Group CRES teams on key cross‐functional initiatives. Together, they are delivering an IT refurbishment program aimed at extending the lifespan of current laptops, thereby reducing the need for new purchases and promoting sustainable technology practices. Additionally, the teams are driving circularity in office furniture by identifying opportunities to procure refurbished items or refurbish existing furniture, reinforcing a commitment to sustainable resource use wherever possible (please refer to Section 4.4.2.2 “Actions and initiatives on key purchasing categories” for more details). Group Procurement will also work cross‐functionally with Group IT to enhance supplier engagement and demand management around cloud services. e) Nature and Climate Solutions 1. Collaborating with others for greater impact We are committed to working with others to drive growth in the development of nature and climate tech solutions. We are members of the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance (LEAF) Coalition, a public‐private partnership with the goal to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state) and last year we were one of the first buyers of high integrity forest carbon credits, in a national deal with Ghana and with the State of Para in Brazil. We have also invested in funds including the Mirova Climate Fund for Nature. This fund launched in 2023 with a number of corporate members and currently exceeds €195m euros. It is expected to grow and is targeting projects dedicated to protecting and restoring nature in emerging markets, as well as supporting farmers in their transition to regenerative agriculture."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 209 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 In 2023, we joined the First Movers Coalition for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030. To date we have contracted 39,500 tons to be delivered over the coming years from the following suppliers: Neustark – 10,000 tons Neustark is a Switzerland‐based specialist leader of high‐quality durable carbon removals, which Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to remove 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide. Neustark’s innovative technology and business model captures CO2 from biomass sites, liquefies it, then injects it into existing mineral waste streams such as demolished materials to be recycled and used in construction. This utilizes a process of mineralization that stores the CO2 in the aggregate, permanently removing it from the atmosphere. Neustark’s projects are currently certified under the Gold Standard to ensure credible third‐party assessment and transparency related to performance. Building on its existing 19 sites in Europe, the business plans to bring online approximately 40 additional sites throughout 2025 in the region. Neustark is scaling up rapidly, on track towards its ambition of permanently removing one million tons of CO2 in 2030. Charm Industrial – 16,500 tons Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement with Charm Industrial, based in the US, to permanently remove 16,500 tons of carbon dioxide. Charm Industrial converts biomass residues after harvest (for example, corn stover, forestry residues) into bio‐oil by heating the biomass quickly to very high temperatures. Charm uses woody or cellulosic residues in their pyrolysis and ensures that any emissions associated with growth or harvesting of this biomass are accounted for. This means waste biomass that would have otherwise decomposed is a preferred feedstock. The resulting bio‐oil is low in energy content, but high in carbon content, and can be transported and injected underground into geological storage reservoirs such as depleted oil & gas reservoirs, saline aquifers and salt caverns regulated by the US EPA. It is a highly viscous liquid which is denser than the surrounding formation fluid, and so will sink in the reservoir and risk of buoyancy/upward migration is low. The bio‐oil polymerizes (solidifies) on an expected timescale between 2–20 years, rendering it effectively immobile within the subsurface and therefore durable on geological timescales. This removes CO2 permanently from the atmosphere, out of reach of wildfires, soil erosion and land use change. Climeworks – 13,000 tons Climeworks is a global leader in carbon removal and Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to permanently remove 13,000 tons of carbon dioxide through their direct air capture technology. Direct air capture (DAC) is a technology that captures CO2 directly from the air. Unlike traditional carbon capture methods focused on industrial emissions at the source, DAC offers a versatile solution for carbon removal by capturing CO2 from the air which is then combined with permanent underground storage. Climeworks already operates two Direct Air Capture plants in Iceland and delivers third‐party certified carbon removal services to its customers. In the USA, Climeworks announced three projects as part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Regional DAC Hubs program kickstarting the first hub, Project Cypress. Other promising locations are Canada, Norway, and Kenya. 2. Mitigating emissions beyond our value chain Since 2019, we have reduced our operational emissions by 47%. Alongside this decarbonization, we have continued to scale up our climate contribution. Carbon credit projects In 2024, we retired 314,312 carbon credits from 11 projects, which equates to 72% of our remaining operational emissions. Details of credits retired can be found in Section 4.3.3.5 “Metrics related to our net zero program” below. Together with our suppliers, we perform due diligence on each carbon credit project from which we have retired credits. Since the release of the IC-VCMs Core Carbon Principles (CCP), we have been aligning our evaluation framework to ensure overlap with all ten principles. This includes considering governance of the carbon credit standards to ensure it is effective, operates a registry where credits can be tracked and where information on projects is transparent, and validation and verification is undertaken by independent third-parties. All the carbon credits retired come from CCP eligible programs (VCS, Gold Standard and CAR). At a project level we evaluate additionally, permanence, quantification, ensure no double counting and look for projects that contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, have appropriate safeguarding mechanisms and contribute to the net zero transition. The voluntary carbon market has been and should continue to be in a state of renewal, learning and improving the robustness of processes, assessment and quantification. Our due diligence process does not imply credits retired will receive a CCP label from IC-VCM given how methodologies and the market have had to evolve, but they represent credits from projects that passed our interpretation of these principles at the time of purchase. Going forward our due diligence process will continue to evolve for new investments and purchases to evaluate using best practice in line with our values and principles. As requirements and standards continue to evolve, we will always endeavor to ensure we are following the latest guidelines. There will however always be a lag between commitments made to pre-existing projects, the speed which projects can adapt to methodological changes, new purchases and investments and credits we have available to retire. All credits, if applicable, may be counted towards the host countries achievement of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement. 1 trillion trees campaign (1t.org) Capgemini is part of the World Economic Forum (WEF) 1 trillion trees campaign to conserve, restore, and grow one trillion trees around the world by 2030. We have committed to planting 20 million trees by 2030 and as of the end of 2024 we had planted around 17 million trees. Whilst the majority of this progress is being made through our carbon credit program, we have also established other tree planting initiatives including the Capgemini Forest. Through our partner Ecologi, a B-Corp climate action platform focused on tree planting around the world, the Capgemini Forest has now reached over 1 million trees planted across 16 countries. We will continue to source nature and climate solutions in line with our targets to retire credits equivalent to our operational emissions in 2025, adding our supply chain in 2030 and reaching Net Zero in 2040."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 210 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 f) Collective Action: Employee Environmental Training Our Sustainability Campus, launched in 2022, is accessible to all our people globally. It was created to centralize sustainability learning and facilitate upskilling on this critical topic. In 2024, the Group made the Sustainability awareness module mandatory to all employees, starting in September 2024. The module has been well‐received, with employees rating the module an average of 4.6 out of 5. We enhanced the module’s accessibility by translating it into eight languages and providing downloadable transcripts. Additionally, we made the module more sustainable by optimizing video size and storage and eliminating auto‐play functionality. Beyond awareness, the Campus offers specialized training, focusing on specific roles, as well as industry‐specific training modules and deep dives on key sustainability topics, catering to all levels of experience. Employees can upskill on sustainability by completing learning pathways that focus on topics related to their interest, industry and portfolio, as well as learning about our specific client offers on sustainability. Capgemini employees in IT roles for example are encouraged to complete the Green IT Essentials Module, which explores the impact of digital technology on the environment. Additionally beyond the industry training provided on our Campus, our Group Sustainability and CRES teams have run internal campaigns around energy efficiency for our employees across multiple countries, both in our offices as well as for people at home. In 2024, we introduced 19 new modules on our Sustainability Campus – including around Sustainable Product Design (Cradle to Cradle), Wind, Solar, Hydrogen, Food Waste among others – and updated five modules, ensuring our offerings remain relevant to employee needs, support their daily challenges, and meet client expectations. In addition, we launched our Green Talk – Business to Planet Podcasts with over 7,000 listens. Our commitment to excellence was recognized in September 2024, when the Sustainability Campus received prestigious Brandon Hall Awards, including: — Gold for Best Unique or Innovative Learning and Development Program; — Gold for Best Use of Blended Learning; and — Bronze for Best Learning Strategy. For information on our work with clients, please refer to Section 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives”. g) Global Leaderships As a global leader in sustainability, Capgemini continued to earn recognition in 2024, including CDP’s A-List and a Platinum Ecovadis rating. The Group’s public commitments, such as those to RE100 and EV100, underscore its dedication to renewable energy and electric mobility. Strategic partnerships with the World Economic Forum and UNICEF reinforce Capgemini’s role as a responsible technology leader, driving progress toward global decarbonization. A comprehensive list of recognitions earned, or engagements made by Capgemini in relation to climate change is set out below: — maintaining a Platinum medal in our Ecovadis sustainability assessment, the highest possible rating with a score which puts the Group in the top 1% of organizations assessed since 2020, including achieving a perfect 100% score in the Environment Section of the assessment; — retaining a position on the ‘A List’ published by the global environmental non‐profit CDP for its leadership in corporate sustainability; — remaining a constituent of the DJSI Europe Index with a 79/100 score compared with an industry average of 49/100; — maintaining our place as a Supplier Engagement Leader on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for taking action to measure and reduce climate impacts and risks in our supply chain. We were recognized by CDP as a Supplier Engagement Leader; — being placed in the top ten of the Financial Times “Europe’s Climate Leaders 2024”; — being included in @TIME magazine’s World’s Most Sustainable Companies (ranked 4th in our sector). From an initial list of 5,000 global companies, the companies that made it to the top 500 list were assessed for their commitments, external ratings, reporting and transparency and environmental and social stewardship; — joining the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders in 2021, a global community of Chief Executive Officers who catalyze action across all sectors and engage policymakers to help deliver the transition to a net zero economy; — becoming a signatory to the RE100 in 2020, committing to transition 100% of our electricity to renewable sources by 2025; — joining EV100 in 2021, making a commitment to transition to an electric fleet by 2030, as well as supporting customers and staff to use electric vehicles by installing charging infrastructure; — joining a three‐year partnership with UNICEF in 2023 to support the “Green Rising” initiative (implemented by Generation Unlimited), which aims to mobilize 10 million young people at a grassroots level, to drive climate action; — joining the WEF 1trillion trees campaign in 2021 to conserve, restore and grow trees around the world with a commitment to plant 20 million trees by 2030; — joining the LEAF coalition in 2022, (the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance) a public private partnership with a goal is to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state); — joining the First Movers Coalition in 2023, for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable net carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030; — joining the European Green Digital Coalition in 2022 to ensure technology is a key driver to address sustainability issues in support of a green digital transformation of the EU; — joining the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Early Adopters Program in 2022 as part of our commitment to transparently disclose our implementation of the #TenPrinciples and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals; — joining the European Commission’s Sustainable Consumption Pledge in 2023, reflecting our commitment to act on climate change and increase the circularity of our business; — becoming a signatory to the Taskforce for Climate‐related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2020 supporting action to build resilient solutions to climate change through climate‐related financial disclosures;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 211 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — setting our first Science Based Targets in 2016 and, in 2022, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line with the Corporate Net Zero Standard and a 1.5°C trajectory; and (1) EV data is calculated as of 30/11/2024. Approximately 1500 vehicles in India (accounting for around 11% of the total number of company cars) have been excluded from our EV targets so have not been included in the data above. — becoming a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a coalition of leading net zero initiatives. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5‐degree targets in 2020. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007. 4.3.3.4 Targets related to climate change mitigation Net zero performance indicators Headline (SBTi) targets Near term targets (2030) Long term targets (2040) Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % change vs 2019 % change vs 2023 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -92.8% √ -17.9% Scope 3 Business travel emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.26 0.50 0.48 √ -61.9% √ -4.0% Scope 3 employee commuting emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.08 0.50 0.55 √ -49.1% √ 9.8% Scope 3 purchased goods and services -50% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -1.4% √ -14.4% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Supporting performance indicators Supporting targets Near term targets Long term targets Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % of electricity from renewable sources 100% by 2025 Maintain 100% RE100 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ Electric vehicles (including electric plug‐in hybrids) (1) - - - - 34.0% 71.4% Electric vehicles (excluding electric plug‐in hybrids) 100% by 2030 Maintain 100% EV100 - - 25.6% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Capgemini has set a headline Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated net zero target, which is to achieve 90% absolute reduction across our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040, against a 2019 baseline. This means reducing our total 2019 emissions from 1.13 million tons of CO2e to around 113,000 tons of CO2e by 2040, which equates to an absolute reduction of 1.02 million tons of CO2e. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined accounted for 14% of our emissions in the baseline year, and our combined Scope 1 and 2 target will see these emissions reduce by 90% from 154,078 tons of CO2e in 2019 to 15,408 tons of CO2e in 2040, an absolute reduction of 138,670 tons of CO2e. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 977,472 tons of CO2e in 2019 and according to our SBTi target will reduce to 97,747 tons of CO2e in 2040, a reduction of 879,725 tons of CO2e. In order to achieve our target and ensure we are on track, we have set several near‐term emissions reduction targets: — an absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 business travel emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; and — an absolute reduction in Scope 3 purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030. In addition, we have set two supporting targets, which also contribute towards our emissions reduction strategy: — transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (as part of our RE100 commitment); and — transitioning our company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 (as part of our EV 100 commitment)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 207 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4. Enabling digital collaboration We have continued to extend investments to support a hybrid work culture, upgrading office spaces with AV technologies. This enables employees to connect and collaborate globally and contribute to a reduction in our commuting related footprint. During 2024, we upgraded 808 enhanced and premium meeting rooms with wireless presentation systems, improving the meeting room experience for employees, clients and suppliers. This includes the revamp of 282 enhanced meeting rooms with new, energy‐efficient AV equipment. Additionally, 413 standard meeting rooms were upgraded to support video, enhancing hybrid work environments. We also upgraded to the latest Microsoft Teams app, decom­ missioning legacy Skype and Teams apps and moving all employees globally to the same communication app. Our future actions will focus on building upon and advancing the four main thematic initiatives outlined above. This includes: — continuing to progress on our five‐year road map to rationalize our application landscape and ensure legacy applications are decommissioned, thereby reducing our energy consumption and carbon emissions; — continuing to transition from on‐premises to move to energy efficient cloud‐based infrastructure, delivering energy savings and carbon emission reductions; — continuing to work with original equipment manufacturers and their value chain on the repair and refurbishment of laptops, reducing our Scope 3.1 emissions from hardware. c) Travel & Smart Delivery 1. Business Travel We have started to see business travel emissions reduce once again (down 3.6% per employee vs. 2023). Overall, our overall business travel emissions are 51% lower than they were in 2019, resulting in an absolute reduction of 173,547 tCO2e since then. This reflects the enduring shift to hybrid working and virtual collaboration with clients, following the Covid pandemic. During 2024, we continued to invest in IT solutions and equipment to support hybrid working and virtual collaboration, enabling our people to work from anywhere at any time. In 2024, we developed our travel dashboards across our global sustainability network, enabling the better tracking of travel emissions and more granular analysis of air travel in particular. These dashboards provide faster access to information about the progress of each country against our targets, as well as enabling tracking across different business units and different travel modes. They also provide very detailed insights such as the most frequent flight routes for different employee grades. 2. Transitioning to an electric vehicle fleet Our membership of the EV100 commits us to transitioning our car fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030. We no longer allow employees to order pure petrol and diesel cars, and last year we introduced a cap of 50 gCO2/km for new hybrid car orders. Capgemini has committed to transitioning its entire 12,000‐vehicle fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles by 2030, with Belgium for example already ordering a fully electric fleet. In 2024, the share of pure EVs was 26% and 71% when including plug‐in hybrids. We have over 2,600 electric vehicle (EV) charge points in place around the Group, providing our employees with charging for their vehicles. Our next step, from 2025, will be to phase out plug‐in hybrid vehicles, where practical. 3. Reducing the impacts of employee commuting In 2024, we conducted our sixth global commuting survey to understand our employees’ commuting habits, as well as the impacts of home working, including the emissions associated with heating, cooling, and powering IT equipment. In total, we had 81,000 people (a quarter of our workforce) respond to our employee commuting survey in 2024. The results have shown an 10% increase in commuting emissions per employee since 2023 due to continued return to working from the office following the Covid pandemic. Overall, though, the shift to hybrid working continues to hold emissions at below pre‐pandemic levels, with commuting emissions per employee down by 49% vs. 2019 (or by 36% vs. 2019 when the impact of working from home is included). In 2024, we have reduced our employee commuting emissions (including working from home) by 60,084 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019. We will continue to conduct our annual commuting survey to build a comprehensive picture on how our people commute and work from home. This will enable us to continue to build our knowledge and define policies that will keep us on track to our targets. Key actions to support employees to tackle commuting and work from home impacts: — Mobility packages – There are a range of country‐specific mobility packages available to employees. These include very comprehensive mobility arrangements in Germany and Netherlands, which enable employees to use public transport even for their private travel, as well as subsidized or heavily discounted public transport in Italy, Spain and France; — Bicycles and e‐bicycles – Across France, Germany, Netherlands, Portugal and the United Kingdom, a range of support measures are in place to encourage uptake of bikes and e‐bikes, including financial help with buying or loaning a bike (UK, Netherlands, France and Portugal). In Germany, cycling clubs are offered, as well as cycle workshops to provide assistance with repairs. We currently offer bike leasing through localized approaches. Moving forward, we plan to review the program with a more holistic and global perspective, aligning it with employee preferences and ensuring it remains accessible and effective across all regions; and — Home Energy – In the United Kingdom, a series of webinars were held in partnership with the Big Clean Switch to advise employees on improving energy efficiency at home, with around 4,000 of our people attending. Employees are also supported through the provision of access to home energy assessments, to help them identify how they can improve the energy efficiency of their home. We also offer interest‐free loans for employees who would like to move forward with the recommendations from these assessments;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 208 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — Buses – We provide company bus services across all our major sites in India, as well as our offices in Spain (Madrid) and Italy (Rome). In India, we plan to transition to buses powered by bio‐compressed natural gas to reduce our commuting emissions; and — Car share – Across several regions we are planning, or already have in place, ride sharing and carpooling initiatives to reduce emissions. d) Supply Chain 1. Engaging with our suppliers Working with our suppliers is pivotal in advancing our environmental strategy. Supplier engagement continued in 2024 with our supplier day and CPO roundtable events providing platforms for discussing target setting, emissions data capture and low‐carbon pathways. We continue to be recognized by CDP for our efforts to engage with our suppliers on the topic of climate change, achieving a place on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard. In 2025, we intend to collaborate and support suppliers even further by creating training material aligned with the contents of the ESG Pledge and sustainable procurement Policy. This will allow suppliers to improve their knowledge base and have access to tools that will enable them to improve their actions no matter where they are on their own environmental journey. We have also started to integrate environmental criteria into our supplier selection for our main categories (IT Hardware, IT Network and Facility Management). In 2025, we are planning to continue this roll‐out as well as produce material for our suppliers, including basic starter knowledge as well as concrete uses cases to reduce carbon emissions. 2. ESG Pledge In 2024, we continued to roll out our Supply Chain ESG Pledge launched last year, aiming to build strong supplier engagement towards supporting the achievement of Capgemini’s carbon reduction goals. The ESG Pledge requires suppliers to disclose their annual GHG emissions, set science‐based targets validated by SBTi, and share their climate transition and low‐carbon product strategies. By the end of 2024, suppliers representing 35% of our total spend had agreed to commit to the ESG Pledge or are aligned to its principles. Any other actions taken or planned by suppliers are encouraged and can be formalized as voluntary contributions to be committed to within the pledge. Going forward, we plan to make our ESG Pledge more inclusive by extending beyond carbon to encompass critical areas, such as biodiversity, water‐related topics, and addressing broader nature‐focused concerns. This pledge will also integrate wider sustainability objectives and social aspects, fostering a more comprehensive approach to environmental, social, and governance priorities. 3. CDP supply chain membership Our CDP supply chain membership helps us to support our suppliers in calculating their emissions and advancing their climate change understanding. This collaboration has improved the accuracy of our Scope 3 data but also enhanced our insight into the challenges and progress of our suppliers towards net zero. In 2024, the 184 suppliers who responded to our CDP request demonstrated they had already made progress in tackling climate change; around 49% have set science‐based targets, with 56% having a climate transition plan aligned with 1.5C. 4. Embedding sustainability training To ensure a cohesive approach to our net zero goal, it is essential to raise awareness among employees about the environmental implications of their procurement decisions. In 2024, we continued to provide sustainability and carbon accounting training to targeted procurement teams in high emission purchasing categories. We have also redeveloped the set of training available to procurement professionals. This training embeds fundamental knowledge on ESG challenges and concrete actions, as well as best practices that can be deployed with suppliers for carbon emissions reductions. 5. Supplier assessment via an ESG assessment tool and during procurement sourcing process: Capgemini is currently deploying a dedicated ESG assessment platform, which will be fully operational in 2025 (see Section 4.11.7 for more details). This will enable Group Procurement to assess suppliers’ maturity on a range of environmental topics and identify risks within our supply chain. Following risk identification, Capgemini can discuss action plans with suppliers to improve their compliance and business resilience. The four main environmental risk areas categorized within our supplier assessment are pollution, waste, substances of concern and GHG emissions. In 2025, we will also continue refining and adapting our procurement processes to make sure environmental criteria are fully embedded and taking a bigger weight into our sourcing processes. Our future actions will focus on building upon and advancing the five main thematic initiatives outlined above. Beyond the Procurement‐specific pillars above, our Group Procurement team is actively collaborating with Group IT and Group CRES teams on key cross‐functional initiatives. Together, they are delivering an IT refurbishment program aimed at extending the lifespan of current laptops, thereby reducing the need for new purchases and promoting sustainable technology practices. Additionally, the teams are driving circularity in office furniture by identifying opportunities to procure refurbished items or refurbish existing furniture, reinforcing a commitment to sustainable resource use wherever possible (please refer to Section 4.4.2.2 “Actions and initiatives on key purchasing categories” for more details). Group Procurement will also work cross‐functionally with Group IT to enhance supplier engagement and demand management around cloud services. e) Nature and Climate Solutions 1. Collaborating with others for greater impact We are committed to working with others to drive growth in the development of nature and climate tech solutions. We are members of the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance (LEAF) Coalition, a public‐private partnership with the goal to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state) and last year we were one of the first buyers of high integrity forest carbon credits, in a national deal with Ghana and with the State of Para in Brazil. We have also invested in funds including the Mirova Climate Fund for Nature. This fund launched in 2023 with a number of corporate members and currently exceeds €195m euros. It is expected to grow and is targeting projects dedicated to protecting and restoring nature in emerging markets, as well as supporting farmers in their transition to regenerative agriculture."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 209 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 In 2023, we joined the First Movers Coalition for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030. To date we have contracted 39,500 tons to be delivered over the coming years from the following suppliers: Neustark – 10,000 tons Neustark is a Switzerland‐based specialist leader of high‐quality durable carbon removals, which Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to remove 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide. Neustark’s innovative technology and business model captures CO2 from biomass sites, liquefies it, then injects it into existing mineral waste streams such as demolished materials to be recycled and used in construction. This utilizes a process of mineralization that stores the CO2 in the aggregate, permanently removing it from the atmosphere. Neustark’s projects are currently certified under the Gold Standard to ensure credible third‐party assessment and transparency related to performance. Building on its existing 19 sites in Europe, the business plans to bring online approximately 40 additional sites throughout 2025 in the region. Neustark is scaling up rapidly, on track towards its ambition of permanently removing one million tons of CO2 in 2030. Charm Industrial – 16,500 tons Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement with Charm Industrial, based in the US, to permanently remove 16,500 tons of carbon dioxide. Charm Industrial converts biomass residues after harvest (for example, corn stover, forestry residues) into bio‐oil by heating the biomass quickly to very high temperatures. Charm uses woody or cellulosic residues in their pyrolysis and ensures that any emissions associated with growth or harvesting of this biomass are accounted for. This means waste biomass that would have otherwise decomposed is a preferred feedstock. The resulting bio‐oil is low in energy content, but high in carbon content, and can be transported and injected underground into geological storage reservoirs such as depleted oil & gas reservoirs, saline aquifers and salt caverns regulated by the US EPA. It is a highly viscous liquid which is denser than the surrounding formation fluid, and so will sink in the reservoir and risk of buoyancy/upward migration is low. The bio‐oil polymerizes (solidifies) on an expected timescale between 2–20 years, rendering it effectively immobile within the subsurface and therefore durable on geological timescales. This removes CO2 permanently from the atmosphere, out of reach of wildfires, soil erosion and land use change. Climeworks – 13,000 tons Climeworks is a global leader in carbon removal and Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to permanently remove 13,000 tons of carbon dioxide through their direct air capture technology. Direct air capture (DAC) is a technology that captures CO2 directly from the air. Unlike traditional carbon capture methods focused on industrial emissions at the source, DAC offers a versatile solution for carbon removal by capturing CO2 from the air which is then combined with permanent underground storage. Climeworks already operates two Direct Air Capture plants in Iceland and delivers third‐party certified carbon removal services to its customers. In the USA, Climeworks announced three projects as part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Regional DAC Hubs program kickstarting the first hub, Project Cypress. Other promising locations are Canada, Norway, and Kenya. 2. Mitigating emissions beyond our value chain Since 2019, we have reduced our operational emissions by 47%. Alongside this decarbonization, we have continued to scale up our climate contribution. Carbon credit projects In 2024, we retired 314,312 carbon credits from 11 projects, which equates to 72% of our remaining operational emissions. Details of credits retired can be found in Section 4.3.3.5 “Metrics related to our net zero program” below. Together with our suppliers, we perform due diligence on each carbon credit project from which we have retired credits. Since the release of the IC-VCMs Core Carbon Principles (CCP), we have been aligning our evaluation framework to ensure overlap with all ten principles. This includes considering governance of the carbon credit standards to ensure it is effective, operates a registry where credits can be tracked and where information on projects is transparent, and validation and verification is undertaken by independent third-parties. All the carbon credits retired come from CCP eligible programs (VCS, Gold Standard and CAR). At a project level we evaluate additionally, permanence, quantification, ensure no double counting and look for projects that contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, have appropriate safeguarding mechanisms and contribute to the net zero transition. The voluntary carbon market has been and should continue to be in a state of renewal, learning and improving the robustness of processes, assessment and quantification. Our due diligence process does not imply credits retired will receive a CCP label from IC-VCM given how methodologies and the market have had to evolve, but they represent credits from projects that passed our interpretation of these principles at the time of purchase. Going forward our due diligence process will continue to evolve for new investments and purchases to evaluate using best practice in line with our values and principles. As requirements and standards continue to evolve, we will always endeavor to ensure we are following the latest guidelines. There will however always be a lag between commitments made to pre-existing projects, the speed which projects can adapt to methodological changes, new purchases and investments and credits we have available to retire. All credits, if applicable, may be counted towards the host countries achievement of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement. 1 trillion trees campaign (1t.org) Capgemini is part of the World Economic Forum (WEF) 1 trillion trees campaign to conserve, restore, and grow one trillion trees around the world by 2030. We have committed to planting 20 million trees by 2030 and as of the end of 2024 we had planted around 17 million trees. Whilst the majority of this progress is being made through our carbon credit program, we have also established other tree planting initiatives including the Capgemini Forest. Through our partner Ecologi, a B-Corp climate action platform focused on tree planting around the world, the Capgemini Forest has now reached over 1 million trees planted across 16 countries. We will continue to source nature and climate solutions in line with our targets to retire credits equivalent to our operational emissions in 2025, adding our supply chain in 2030 and reaching Net Zero in 2040."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 210 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 f) Collective Action: Employee Environmental Training Our Sustainability Campus, launched in 2022, is accessible to all our people globally. It was created to centralize sustainability learning and facilitate upskilling on this critical topic. In 2024, the Group made the Sustainability awareness module mandatory to all employees, starting in September 2024. The module has been well‐received, with employees rating the module an average of 4.6 out of 5. We enhanced the module’s accessibility by translating it into eight languages and providing downloadable transcripts. Additionally, we made the module more sustainable by optimizing video size and storage and eliminating auto‐play functionality. Beyond awareness, the Campus offers specialized training, focusing on specific roles, as well as industry‐specific training modules and deep dives on key sustainability topics, catering to all levels of experience. Employees can upskill on sustainability by completing learning pathways that focus on topics related to their interest, industry and portfolio, as well as learning about our specific client offers on sustainability. Capgemini employees in IT roles for example are encouraged to complete the Green IT Essentials Module, which explores the impact of digital technology on the environment. Additionally beyond the industry training provided on our Campus, our Group Sustainability and CRES teams have run internal campaigns around energy efficiency for our employees across multiple countries, both in our offices as well as for people at home. In 2024, we introduced 19 new modules on our Sustainability Campus – including around Sustainable Product Design (Cradle to Cradle), Wind, Solar, Hydrogen, Food Waste among others – and updated five modules, ensuring our offerings remain relevant to employee needs, support their daily challenges, and meet client expectations. In addition, we launched our Green Talk – Business to Planet Podcasts with over 7,000 listens. Our commitment to excellence was recognized in September 2024, when the Sustainability Campus received prestigious Brandon Hall Awards, including: — Gold for Best Unique or Innovative Learning and Development Program; — Gold for Best Use of Blended Learning; and — Bronze for Best Learning Strategy. For information on our work with clients, please refer to Section 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives”. g) Global Leaderships As a global leader in sustainability, Capgemini continued to earn recognition in 2024, including CDP’s A-List and a Platinum Ecovadis rating. The Group’s public commitments, such as those to RE100 and EV100, underscore its dedication to renewable energy and electric mobility. Strategic partnerships with the World Economic Forum and UNICEF reinforce Capgemini’s role as a responsible technology leader, driving progress toward global decarbonization. A comprehensive list of recognitions earned, or engagements made by Capgemini in relation to climate change is set out below: — maintaining a Platinum medal in our Ecovadis sustainability assessment, the highest possible rating with a score which puts the Group in the top 1% of organizations assessed since 2020, including achieving a perfect 100% score in the Environment Section of the assessment; — retaining a position on the ‘A List’ published by the global environmental non‐profit CDP for its leadership in corporate sustainability; — remaining a constituent of the DJSI Europe Index with a 79/100 score compared with an industry average of 49/100; — maintaining our place as a Supplier Engagement Leader on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for taking action to measure and reduce climate impacts and risks in our supply chain. We were recognized by CDP as a Supplier Engagement Leader; — being placed in the top ten of the Financial Times “Europe’s Climate Leaders 2024”; — being included in @TIME magazine’s World’s Most Sustainable Companies (ranked 4th in our sector). From an initial list of 5,000 global companies, the companies that made it to the top 500 list were assessed for their commitments, external ratings, reporting and transparency and environmental and social stewardship; — joining the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders in 2021, a global community of Chief Executive Officers who catalyze action across all sectors and engage policymakers to help deliver the transition to a net zero economy; — becoming a signatory to the RE100 in 2020, committing to transition 100% of our electricity to renewable sources by 2025; — joining EV100 in 2021, making a commitment to transition to an electric fleet by 2030, as well as supporting customers and staff to use electric vehicles by installing charging infrastructure; — joining a three‐year partnership with UNICEF in 2023 to support the “Green Rising” initiative (implemented by Generation Unlimited), which aims to mobilize 10 million young people at a grassroots level, to drive climate action; — joining the WEF 1trillion trees campaign in 2021 to conserve, restore and grow trees around the world with a commitment to plant 20 million trees by 2030; — joining the LEAF coalition in 2022, (the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance) a public private partnership with a goal is to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state); — joining the First Movers Coalition in 2023, for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable net carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030; — joining the European Green Digital Coalition in 2022 to ensure technology is a key driver to address sustainability issues in support of a green digital transformation of the EU; — joining the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Early Adopters Program in 2022 as part of our commitment to transparently disclose our implementation of the #TenPrinciples and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals; — joining the European Commission’s Sustainable Consumption Pledge in 2023, reflecting our commitment to act on climate change and increase the circularity of our business; — becoming a signatory to the Taskforce for Climate‐related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2020 supporting action to build resilient solutions to climate change through climate‐related financial disclosures;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 211 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — setting our first Science Based Targets in 2016 and, in 2022, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line with the Corporate Net Zero Standard and a 1.5°C trajectory; and (1) EV data is calculated as of 30/11/2024. Approximately 1500 vehicles in India (accounting for around 11% of the total number of company cars) have been excluded from our EV targets so have not been included in the data above. — becoming a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a coalition of leading net zero initiatives. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5‐degree targets in 2020. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007. 4.3.3.4 Targets related to climate change mitigation Net zero performance indicators Headline (SBTi) targets Near term targets (2030) Long term targets (2040) Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % change vs 2019 % change vs 2023 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -92.8% √ -17.9% Scope 3 Business travel emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.26 0.50 0.48 √ -61.9% √ -4.0% Scope 3 employee commuting emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.08 0.50 0.55 √ -49.1% √ 9.8% Scope 3 purchased goods and services -50% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -1.4% √ -14.4% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Supporting performance indicators Supporting targets Near term targets Long term targets Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % of electricity from renewable sources 100% by 2025 Maintain 100% RE100 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ Electric vehicles (including electric plug‐in hybrids) (1) - - - - 34.0% 71.4% Electric vehicles (excluding electric plug‐in hybrids) 100% by 2030 Maintain 100% EV100 - - 25.6% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Capgemini has set a headline Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated net zero target, which is to achieve 90% absolute reduction across our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040, against a 2019 baseline. This means reducing our total 2019 emissions from 1.13 million tons of CO2e to around 113,000 tons of CO2e by 2040, which equates to an absolute reduction of 1.02 million tons of CO2e. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined accounted for 14% of our emissions in the baseline year, and our combined Scope 1 and 2 target will see these emissions reduce by 90% from 154,078 tons of CO2e in 2019 to 15,408 tons of CO2e in 2040, an absolute reduction of 138,670 tons of CO2e. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 977,472 tons of CO2e in 2019 and according to our SBTi target will reduce to 97,747 tons of CO2e in 2040, a reduction of 879,725 tons of CO2e. In order to achieve our target and ensure we are on track, we have set several near‐term emissions reduction targets: — an absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 business travel emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; and — an absolute reduction in Scope 3 purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030. In addition, we have set two supporting targets, which also contribute towards our emissions reduction strategy: — transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (as part of our RE100 commitment); and — transitioning our company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 (as part of our EV 100 commitment)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 212 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2019 has been chosen as a baseline year for all targets as it represents a typical operating year prior to the impacts of the Covid pandemic and is representative in terms of business areas and activities covered by Capgemini. It is also the year in which Capgemini finalized its acquisition of Altran, significantly expanding its engineering and R&D capabilities and growing the Capgemini Group headcount by over 47,000 people. Due to the transformative nature of this acquisition, it is not meaningful to report in detail on progress prior to 2019. It is perhaps worth noting that Capgemini was in 2016 one of the first in its sector to set science‐based targets approved by SBTi: Capgemini’s headline target of a GHG emission reduction of 30% per employee (vs 2015) was met in January 2020, before the Covid lockdowns came into effect. We continue to accelerate our carbon reduction program across our largest climate‐related impact areas. Looking at our footprint across our value chain, we know our biggest carbon impacts result from the the goods and services we procure, our commuting and business‐related travel as well as the energy use in our facilities. Our near‐term 2030 targets tackle all these areas, covering 98% of our total GHG emissions in both the baseline year and 2024. Our net zero 2040 target covers 100% of our total GHG emissions. In 2024, Capgemini made significant strides towards achieving its targets. We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 93% reduction (vs 2019) primarily driven by our transition to 98% renewable electricity globally. Notably, 32 countries within our operations now run on 100% renewable energy, with over 14,000 MWh of solar power generated on-site. This progress has been supported by our innovative energy-saving initiatives such as our Energy Command Center in India, which has helped reduce global office energy consumption by 42% since 2019. Our commitment to reducing Scope 3 emissions, which represent a larger challenge, also saw advancements. In 2024, business travel emissions remained 51% lower than pre-pandemic levels and our hybrid working policies continue to keep commuting emissions per employee 49% lower than in 2019. Collaborations with suppliers are also central to our approach, as 41% of our emissions stem from purchased goods and services. Through our supplier engagement workshops and ESG Pledge, we have gained commitments from suppliers representing 35% of our spend to align with the ESG pledge. Water conservation is another area where we saw marked improvements, with total water withdrawal down 50% from 2019. Initiatives like rainwater harvesting and advanced sewage treatment facilities across our campuses have been pivotal, particularly in water-stressed regions such as India. Waste reduction and circularity are core to our environmental strategy. We reduced waste per employee by 56% compared to 2019, and our Global Zero Waste Standard is ensuring we minimize waste and embed circularity throughout our operations. Overall, in 2024, we have reduced our total GHG emissions by 393,251 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019, corresponding to a 35% reduction. Alongside our target to reduce our absolute carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we have also made a commitment to scaling up our contribution to climate and nature solutions. We currently invest in projects that will generate high-quality carbon credits (as defined by independent standards) that have a positive impact for the planet and deliver wider social and environmental co-benefits. We continue to reduce our negative impacts and maximize positive actions in other areas, including water and waste, promoting circularity and biodiversity initiatives (please refer to Sections 4.4 “Circular economy and resources” and 4.5 “Other environmental topics” below for further information). We have defined our net zero target in line with SBTi’s Corporate Net-Zero Standard methodology, which requires that companies commit to reaching net zero by 2050. SBTi validation demonstrates the alignment of our targets with the Paris Agreement and with global efforts to limit the global temperature increases to within 1.5 degrees Celsius versus pre-industrial levels. Setting a target to reach net zero by 2040, 10 years ahead of the timeline recommended by SBTi and the Paris Agreement, is ambitious and will hopefully encourage others within our value chain (clients and suppliers) to follow our lead and make equally ambitious commitments. This target aligns with international policy goals, in particular the 2015 Paris Agreement. It covers all our greenhouse gas emissions (which are measured in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and aggregated in tonnes of CO2e) including Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O), as well as any Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) which are primarily used in our air conditioning and refrigerant systems. Our climate targets have been defined through consultation and collaboration with key internal functions (Sustainability, Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT), as well as key Capgemini country and region leads. The targets were ultimately approved by our Net Zero Board including our Group CEO and Board of Directors, before being validated by the SBTi. We have not made any changes to our targets during the reporting period. Minor changes have been made to the emissions calculation methodology and emissions data for historic years, which are provided in more detail in Section 4.3.3.5 b) “GHG emissions and performance”. Progress against most of our targets is reviewed on a quarterly basis by our Net Zero Board, as well as our Cross-Function Committee and Group Sustainability networks. The Board of Directors is updated regularly on our progress against the targets. We also forecast both our year‐end position (to help with short‐term planning) and a long‐term view of how we expect our progress against the targets to evolve over the next few years. Our progress against meeting our target before 2024 is discussed in more detail in Section 4.3.3.1. “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition”. Our description of our decarbonization levers and their overall quantitative contributions to achieve GHG emission reduction target can be found across Sections 4.3.3.1 “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition” and 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program of this Sustainability Statement”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 213 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4.3.3.5 Metrics related to our net zero program We measure our environmental performance through our global carbon accounting system, which provides a comprehensive data set on a range of metrics, including energy consumption, water consumption, F-gas, waste disposal, and GHG emissions across all three scopes. Millions of data points are collected and analyzed on an ongoing basis and presented back to internal stakeholders in a range of interactive dashboards. Having one centralized team and system responsible for gathering, processing, and reporting data helps us maintain a high level of consistency and data quality. We use this extensive data set to enable a very granular view of greenhouse gas emissions, and to help us pinpoint opportunities to reduce emissions. In 2024, we have been further expanding the coverage of our carbon accounting, by adding operations in Egypt and Slovakia to our reporting. Detailed data gathering now takes place in 42 countries covering 99.8% of our global operations by headcount, with data for the remaining 0.2% of operations estimated. We continue to capture and report data monthly for our biggest countries (representing over 75% of the Group’s office and travel emissions), and for the largest sources of emission enabling faster engagement with the data and results. We also maintain a series of interactive dashboards for our Sustainability, Procurement and Real Estate communities to engage with the data. Data from our carbon accounting system also feeds into other systems and processes. Any data that cannot be provided is calculated based on assumptions, estimations, or extrapolations that are mutually agreed between the Carbon Accounting Team, the sustainability lead within that country and the data owner for that data source, in accordance with the reporting procedure. The estimation process is validated by the carbon accounting team to ensure consistency in approach across the Group. Estimation approaches include, for example, extrapolating data from the same country and source to cover missing months of data, estimating the consumption based on cost per unit of consumption, or utilizing use figures of another site in the same country or region to fill gaps. a) Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption from non‐renewable and renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 254,635 35,982 31,270 -87.7% -13.1% a. LPG, diesel and gas oil (crude oil and petroleum products) MWh 14,899 4,845 5,869 -60.6% 21.1% b. Natural gas MWh 21,282 11,524 9,290 -56.3% -19.4% c. Purchased electricity from fossil sources MWh 208,433 6,975 2,579 -98.8% -63.0% d. Purchased heating from non‐renewable sources MWh 7,523 11,048 11,941 58.7% 8.1% e. Purchased cooling from non‐renewable sources MWh 2,498 1,591 1,590 -36.3% -0.1% Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh - - 0 - - Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 82,481 165,041 164,213 99.1% -0.5% a. Fuel consumption for renewable sources including biomass, biogas MWh - 2,396 2,039 - -14.9% b. Purchased electricity from renewable sources MWh 74,742 148,741 148,504 98.7% -0.2% c. Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity MWh 7,739 13,904 13,670 76.6% -1.7% Percentage of total electricity from renewable sources % 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ - - Percentage of total energy from renewable sources % 24.5% 82.1% 84.0% - - Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 √ -42.0% -2.8% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. 1) Purchased electricity from fossil sources is based on our purchases of electricity on standard utility contracts, where there is no specified breakdown of the source of electricity and no energy attribute certificates are purchased. 2) Purchased electricity from renewable sources includes all renewable electricity purchased through power purchase agreements, renewable electricity tariffs or through energy attribute certificates. 3) Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity refers to electricity that is generated at our sites (from solar photovoltaic panels) and then consumed directly at those sites."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 209 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 In 2023, we joined the First Movers Coalition for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030. To date we have contracted 39,500 tons to be delivered over the coming years from the following suppliers: Neustark – 10,000 tons Neustark is a Switzerland‐based specialist leader of high‐quality durable carbon removals, which Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to remove 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide. Neustark’s innovative technology and business model captures CO2 from biomass sites, liquefies it, then injects it into existing mineral waste streams such as demolished materials to be recycled and used in construction. This utilizes a process of mineralization that stores the CO2 in the aggregate, permanently removing it from the atmosphere. Neustark’s projects are currently certified under the Gold Standard to ensure credible third‐party assessment and transparency related to performance. Building on its existing 19 sites in Europe, the business plans to bring online approximately 40 additional sites throughout 2025 in the region. Neustark is scaling up rapidly, on track towards its ambition of permanently removing one million tons of CO2 in 2030. Charm Industrial – 16,500 tons Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement with Charm Industrial, based in the US, to permanently remove 16,500 tons of carbon dioxide. Charm Industrial converts biomass residues after harvest (for example, corn stover, forestry residues) into bio‐oil by heating the biomass quickly to very high temperatures. Charm uses woody or cellulosic residues in their pyrolysis and ensures that any emissions associated with growth or harvesting of this biomass are accounted for. This means waste biomass that would have otherwise decomposed is a preferred feedstock. The resulting bio‐oil is low in energy content, but high in carbon content, and can be transported and injected underground into geological storage reservoirs such as depleted oil & gas reservoirs, saline aquifers and salt caverns regulated by the US EPA. It is a highly viscous liquid which is denser than the surrounding formation fluid, and so will sink in the reservoir and risk of buoyancy/upward migration is low. The bio‐oil polymerizes (solidifies) on an expected timescale between 2–20 years, rendering it effectively immobile within the subsurface and therefore durable on geological timescales. This removes CO2 permanently from the atmosphere, out of reach of wildfires, soil erosion and land use change. Climeworks – 13,000 tons Climeworks is a global leader in carbon removal and Capgemini has entered into a long‐term offtake agreement to permanently remove 13,000 tons of carbon dioxide through their direct air capture technology. Direct air capture (DAC) is a technology that captures CO2 directly from the air. Unlike traditional carbon capture methods focused on industrial emissions at the source, DAC offers a versatile solution for carbon removal by capturing CO2 from the air which is then combined with permanent underground storage. Climeworks already operates two Direct Air Capture plants in Iceland and delivers third‐party certified carbon removal services to its customers. In the USA, Climeworks announced three projects as part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Regional DAC Hubs program kickstarting the first hub, Project Cypress. Other promising locations are Canada, Norway, and Kenya. 2. Mitigating emissions beyond our value chain Since 2019, we have reduced our operational emissions by 47%. Alongside this decarbonization, we have continued to scale up our climate contribution. Carbon credit projects In 2024, we retired 314,312 carbon credits from 11 projects, which equates to 72% of our remaining operational emissions. Details of credits retired can be found in Section 4.3.3.5 “Metrics related to our net zero program” below. Together with our suppliers, we perform due diligence on each carbon credit project from which we have retired credits. Since the release of the IC-VCMs Core Carbon Principles (CCP), we have been aligning our evaluation framework to ensure overlap with all ten principles. This includes considering governance of the carbon credit standards to ensure it is effective, operates a registry where credits can be tracked and where information on projects is transparent, and validation and verification is undertaken by independent third-parties. All the carbon credits retired come from CCP eligible programs (VCS, Gold Standard and CAR). At a project level we evaluate additionally, permanence, quantification, ensure no double counting and look for projects that contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, have appropriate safeguarding mechanisms and contribute to the net zero transition. The voluntary carbon market has been and should continue to be in a state of renewal, learning and improving the robustness of processes, assessment and quantification. Our due diligence process does not imply credits retired will receive a CCP label from IC-VCM given how methodologies and the market have had to evolve, but they represent credits from projects that passed our interpretation of these principles at the time of purchase. Going forward our due diligence process will continue to evolve for new investments and purchases to evaluate using best practice in line with our values and principles. As requirements and standards continue to evolve, we will always endeavor to ensure we are following the latest guidelines. There will however always be a lag between commitments made to pre-existing projects, the speed which projects can adapt to methodological changes, new purchases and investments and credits we have available to retire. All credits, if applicable, may be counted towards the host countries achievement of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement. 1 trillion trees campaign (1t.org) Capgemini is part of the World Economic Forum (WEF) 1 trillion trees campaign to conserve, restore, and grow one trillion trees around the world by 2030. We have committed to planting 20 million trees by 2030 and as of the end of 2024 we had planted around 17 million trees. Whilst the majority of this progress is being made through our carbon credit program, we have also established other tree planting initiatives including the Capgemini Forest. Through our partner Ecologi, a B-Corp climate action platform focused on tree planting around the world, the Capgemini Forest has now reached over 1 million trees planted across 16 countries. We will continue to source nature and climate solutions in line with our targets to retire credits equivalent to our operational emissions in 2025, adding our supply chain in 2030 and reaching Net Zero in 2040."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 210 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 f) Collective Action: Employee Environmental Training Our Sustainability Campus, launched in 2022, is accessible to all our people globally. It was created to centralize sustainability learning and facilitate upskilling on this critical topic. In 2024, the Group made the Sustainability awareness module mandatory to all employees, starting in September 2024. The module has been well‐received, with employees rating the module an average of 4.6 out of 5. We enhanced the module’s accessibility by translating it into eight languages and providing downloadable transcripts. Additionally, we made the module more sustainable by optimizing video size and storage and eliminating auto‐play functionality. Beyond awareness, the Campus offers specialized training, focusing on specific roles, as well as industry‐specific training modules and deep dives on key sustainability topics, catering to all levels of experience. Employees can upskill on sustainability by completing learning pathways that focus on topics related to their interest, industry and portfolio, as well as learning about our specific client offers on sustainability. Capgemini employees in IT roles for example are encouraged to complete the Green IT Essentials Module, which explores the impact of digital technology on the environment. Additionally beyond the industry training provided on our Campus, our Group Sustainability and CRES teams have run internal campaigns around energy efficiency for our employees across multiple countries, both in our offices as well as for people at home. In 2024, we introduced 19 new modules on our Sustainability Campus – including around Sustainable Product Design (Cradle to Cradle), Wind, Solar, Hydrogen, Food Waste among others – and updated five modules, ensuring our offerings remain relevant to employee needs, support their daily challenges, and meet client expectations. In addition, we launched our Green Talk – Business to Planet Podcasts with over 7,000 listens. Our commitment to excellence was recognized in September 2024, when the Sustainability Campus received prestigious Brandon Hall Awards, including: — Gold for Best Unique or Innovative Learning and Development Program; — Gold for Best Use of Blended Learning; and — Bronze for Best Learning Strategy. For information on our work with clients, please refer to Section 4.3.4 “Helping clients achieve their sustainability objectives”. g) Global Leaderships As a global leader in sustainability, Capgemini continued to earn recognition in 2024, including CDP’s A-List and a Platinum Ecovadis rating. The Group’s public commitments, such as those to RE100 and EV100, underscore its dedication to renewable energy and electric mobility. Strategic partnerships with the World Economic Forum and UNICEF reinforce Capgemini’s role as a responsible technology leader, driving progress toward global decarbonization. A comprehensive list of recognitions earned, or engagements made by Capgemini in relation to climate change is set out below: — maintaining a Platinum medal in our Ecovadis sustainability assessment, the highest possible rating with a score which puts the Group in the top 1% of organizations assessed since 2020, including achieving a perfect 100% score in the Environment Section of the assessment; — retaining a position on the ‘A List’ published by the global environmental non‐profit CDP for its leadership in corporate sustainability; — remaining a constituent of the DJSI Europe Index with a 79/100 score compared with an industry average of 49/100; — maintaining our place as a Supplier Engagement Leader on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for taking action to measure and reduce climate impacts and risks in our supply chain. We were recognized by CDP as a Supplier Engagement Leader; — being placed in the top ten of the Financial Times “Europe’s Climate Leaders 2024”; — being included in @TIME magazine’s World’s Most Sustainable Companies (ranked 4th in our sector). From an initial list of 5,000 global companies, the companies that made it to the top 500 list were assessed for their commitments, external ratings, reporting and transparency and environmental and social stewardship; — joining the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders in 2021, a global community of Chief Executive Officers who catalyze action across all sectors and engage policymakers to help deliver the transition to a net zero economy; — becoming a signatory to the RE100 in 2020, committing to transition 100% of our electricity to renewable sources by 2025; — joining EV100 in 2021, making a commitment to transition to an electric fleet by 2030, as well as supporting customers and staff to use electric vehicles by installing charging infrastructure; — joining a three‐year partnership with UNICEF in 2023 to support the “Green Rising” initiative (implemented by Generation Unlimited), which aims to mobilize 10 million young people at a grassroots level, to drive climate action; — joining the WEF 1trillion trees campaign in 2021 to conserve, restore and grow trees around the world with a commitment to plant 20 million trees by 2030; — joining the LEAF coalition in 2022, (the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance) a public private partnership with a goal is to halt deforestation by financing large scale tropical forest protection at jurisdiction level (country/state); — joining the First Movers Coalition in 2023, for carbon removal, committing to contract at least 50,000 tons or $25m of durable and scalable net carbon dioxide removals by the end of 2030; — joining the European Green Digital Coalition in 2022 to ensure technology is a key driver to address sustainability issues in support of a green digital transformation of the EU; — joining the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Early Adopters Program in 2022 as part of our commitment to transparently disclose our implementation of the #TenPrinciples and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals; — joining the European Commission’s Sustainable Consumption Pledge in 2023, reflecting our commitment to act on climate change and increase the circularity of our business; — becoming a signatory to the Taskforce for Climate‐related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2020 supporting action to build resilient solutions to climate change through climate‐related financial disclosures;"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 211 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — setting our first Science Based Targets in 2016 and, in 2022, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line with the Corporate Net Zero Standard and a 1.5°C trajectory; and (1) EV data is calculated as of 30/11/2024. Approximately 1500 vehicles in India (accounting for around 11% of the total number of company cars) have been excluded from our EV targets so have not been included in the data above. — becoming a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a coalition of leading net zero initiatives. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5‐degree targets in 2020. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007. 4.3.3.4 Targets related to climate change mitigation Net zero performance indicators Headline (SBTi) targets Near term targets (2030) Long term targets (2040) Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % change vs 2019 % change vs 2023 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -92.8% √ -17.9% Scope 3 Business travel emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.26 0.50 0.48 √ -61.9% √ -4.0% Scope 3 employee commuting emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.08 0.50 0.55 √ -49.1% √ 9.8% Scope 3 purchased goods and services -50% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -1.4% √ -14.4% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Supporting performance indicators Supporting targets Near term targets Long term targets Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % of electricity from renewable sources 100% by 2025 Maintain 100% RE100 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ Electric vehicles (including electric plug‐in hybrids) (1) - - - - 34.0% 71.4% Electric vehicles (excluding electric plug‐in hybrids) 100% by 2030 Maintain 100% EV100 - - 25.6% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Capgemini has set a headline Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated net zero target, which is to achieve 90% absolute reduction across our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040, against a 2019 baseline. This means reducing our total 2019 emissions from 1.13 million tons of CO2e to around 113,000 tons of CO2e by 2040, which equates to an absolute reduction of 1.02 million tons of CO2e. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined accounted for 14% of our emissions in the baseline year, and our combined Scope 1 and 2 target will see these emissions reduce by 90% from 154,078 tons of CO2e in 2019 to 15,408 tons of CO2e in 2040, an absolute reduction of 138,670 tons of CO2e. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 977,472 tons of CO2e in 2019 and according to our SBTi target will reduce to 97,747 tons of CO2e in 2040, a reduction of 879,725 tons of CO2e. In order to achieve our target and ensure we are on track, we have set several near‐term emissions reduction targets: — an absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 business travel emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; and — an absolute reduction in Scope 3 purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030. In addition, we have set two supporting targets, which also contribute towards our emissions reduction strategy: — transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (as part of our RE100 commitment); and — transitioning our company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 (as part of our EV 100 commitment)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 212 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2019 has been chosen as a baseline year for all targets as it represents a typical operating year prior to the impacts of the Covid pandemic and is representative in terms of business areas and activities covered by Capgemini. It is also the year in which Capgemini finalized its acquisition of Altran, significantly expanding its engineering and R&D capabilities and growing the Capgemini Group headcount by over 47,000 people. Due to the transformative nature of this acquisition, it is not meaningful to report in detail on progress prior to 2019. It is perhaps worth noting that Capgemini was in 2016 one of the first in its sector to set science‐based targets approved by SBTi: Capgemini’s headline target of a GHG emission reduction of 30% per employee (vs 2015) was met in January 2020, before the Covid lockdowns came into effect. We continue to accelerate our carbon reduction program across our largest climate‐related impact areas. Looking at our footprint across our value chain, we know our biggest carbon impacts result from the the goods and services we procure, our commuting and business‐related travel as well as the energy use in our facilities. Our near‐term 2030 targets tackle all these areas, covering 98% of our total GHG emissions in both the baseline year and 2024. Our net zero 2040 target covers 100% of our total GHG emissions. In 2024, Capgemini made significant strides towards achieving its targets. We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 93% reduction (vs 2019) primarily driven by our transition to 98% renewable electricity globally. Notably, 32 countries within our operations now run on 100% renewable energy, with over 14,000 MWh of solar power generated on-site. This progress has been supported by our innovative energy-saving initiatives such as our Energy Command Center in India, which has helped reduce global office energy consumption by 42% since 2019. Our commitment to reducing Scope 3 emissions, which represent a larger challenge, also saw advancements. In 2024, business travel emissions remained 51% lower than pre-pandemic levels and our hybrid working policies continue to keep commuting emissions per employee 49% lower than in 2019. Collaborations with suppliers are also central to our approach, as 41% of our emissions stem from purchased goods and services. Through our supplier engagement workshops and ESG Pledge, we have gained commitments from suppliers representing 35% of our spend to align with the ESG pledge. Water conservation is another area where we saw marked improvements, with total water withdrawal down 50% from 2019. Initiatives like rainwater harvesting and advanced sewage treatment facilities across our campuses have been pivotal, particularly in water-stressed regions such as India. Waste reduction and circularity are core to our environmental strategy. We reduced waste per employee by 56% compared to 2019, and our Global Zero Waste Standard is ensuring we minimize waste and embed circularity throughout our operations. Overall, in 2024, we have reduced our total GHG emissions by 393,251 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019, corresponding to a 35% reduction. Alongside our target to reduce our absolute carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we have also made a commitment to scaling up our contribution to climate and nature solutions. We currently invest in projects that will generate high-quality carbon credits (as defined by independent standards) that have a positive impact for the planet and deliver wider social and environmental co-benefits. We continue to reduce our negative impacts and maximize positive actions in other areas, including water and waste, promoting circularity and biodiversity initiatives (please refer to Sections 4.4 “Circular economy and resources” and 4.5 “Other environmental topics” below for further information). We have defined our net zero target in line with SBTi’s Corporate Net-Zero Standard methodology, which requires that companies commit to reaching net zero by 2050. SBTi validation demonstrates the alignment of our targets with the Paris Agreement and with global efforts to limit the global temperature increases to within 1.5 degrees Celsius versus pre-industrial levels. Setting a target to reach net zero by 2040, 10 years ahead of the timeline recommended by SBTi and the Paris Agreement, is ambitious and will hopefully encourage others within our value chain (clients and suppliers) to follow our lead and make equally ambitious commitments. This target aligns with international policy goals, in particular the 2015 Paris Agreement. It covers all our greenhouse gas emissions (which are measured in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and aggregated in tonnes of CO2e) including Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O), as well as any Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) which are primarily used in our air conditioning and refrigerant systems. Our climate targets have been defined through consultation and collaboration with key internal functions (Sustainability, Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT), as well as key Capgemini country and region leads. The targets were ultimately approved by our Net Zero Board including our Group CEO and Board of Directors, before being validated by the SBTi. We have not made any changes to our targets during the reporting period. Minor changes have been made to the emissions calculation methodology and emissions data for historic years, which are provided in more detail in Section 4.3.3.5 b) “GHG emissions and performance”. Progress against most of our targets is reviewed on a quarterly basis by our Net Zero Board, as well as our Cross-Function Committee and Group Sustainability networks. The Board of Directors is updated regularly on our progress against the targets. We also forecast both our year‐end position (to help with short‐term planning) and a long‐term view of how we expect our progress against the targets to evolve over the next few years. Our progress against meeting our target before 2024 is discussed in more detail in Section 4.3.3.1. “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition”. Our description of our decarbonization levers and their overall quantitative contributions to achieve GHG emission reduction target can be found across Sections 4.3.3.1 “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition” and 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program of this Sustainability Statement”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 213 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4.3.3.5 Metrics related to our net zero program We measure our environmental performance through our global carbon accounting system, which provides a comprehensive data set on a range of metrics, including energy consumption, water consumption, F-gas, waste disposal, and GHG emissions across all three scopes. Millions of data points are collected and analyzed on an ongoing basis and presented back to internal stakeholders in a range of interactive dashboards. Having one centralized team and system responsible for gathering, processing, and reporting data helps us maintain a high level of consistency and data quality. We use this extensive data set to enable a very granular view of greenhouse gas emissions, and to help us pinpoint opportunities to reduce emissions. In 2024, we have been further expanding the coverage of our carbon accounting, by adding operations in Egypt and Slovakia to our reporting. Detailed data gathering now takes place in 42 countries covering 99.8% of our global operations by headcount, with data for the remaining 0.2% of operations estimated. We continue to capture and report data monthly for our biggest countries (representing over 75% of the Group’s office and travel emissions), and for the largest sources of emission enabling faster engagement with the data and results. We also maintain a series of interactive dashboards for our Sustainability, Procurement and Real Estate communities to engage with the data. Data from our carbon accounting system also feeds into other systems and processes. Any data that cannot be provided is calculated based on assumptions, estimations, or extrapolations that are mutually agreed between the Carbon Accounting Team, the sustainability lead within that country and the data owner for that data source, in accordance with the reporting procedure. The estimation process is validated by the carbon accounting team to ensure consistency in approach across the Group. Estimation approaches include, for example, extrapolating data from the same country and source to cover missing months of data, estimating the consumption based on cost per unit of consumption, or utilizing use figures of another site in the same country or region to fill gaps. a) Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption from non‐renewable and renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 254,635 35,982 31,270 -87.7% -13.1% a. LPG, diesel and gas oil (crude oil and petroleum products) MWh 14,899 4,845 5,869 -60.6% 21.1% b. Natural gas MWh 21,282 11,524 9,290 -56.3% -19.4% c. Purchased electricity from fossil sources MWh 208,433 6,975 2,579 -98.8% -63.0% d. Purchased heating from non‐renewable sources MWh 7,523 11,048 11,941 58.7% 8.1% e. Purchased cooling from non‐renewable sources MWh 2,498 1,591 1,590 -36.3% -0.1% Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh - - 0 - - Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 82,481 165,041 164,213 99.1% -0.5% a. Fuel consumption for renewable sources including biomass, biogas MWh - 2,396 2,039 - -14.9% b. Purchased electricity from renewable sources MWh 74,742 148,741 148,504 98.7% -0.2% c. Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity MWh 7,739 13,904 13,670 76.6% -1.7% Percentage of total electricity from renewable sources % 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ - - Percentage of total energy from renewable sources % 24.5% 82.1% 84.0% - - Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 √ -42.0% -2.8% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. 1) Purchased electricity from fossil sources is based on our purchases of electricity on standard utility contracts, where there is no specified breakdown of the source of electricity and no energy attribute certificates are purchased. 2) Purchased electricity from renewable sources includes all renewable electricity purchased through power purchase agreements, renewable electricity tariffs or through energy attribute certificates. 3) Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity refers to electricity that is generated at our sites (from solar photovoltaic panels) and then consumed directly at those sites."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 214 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Energy production from renewable and non‐renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Non‐renewable electricity production MWh 2,397 958 1,044 -56.4% 9.0% Renewable electricity production MWh 7,739 13,904 14,326 85.1% 3.0% 1) Non‐renewable electricity production is largely electricity generated by diesel generators and used primarily as a source of back‐up in the case of power outages. 2) Renewable electricity production is renewable electricity generated from on‐site solar panels. The majority of this is used on site, but a small portion (656 MWh in 2024) is exported to the grid and used locally, as it is generated during weekends and holidays when we generate more than we can use. This is the reason the figure is higher in this table than the previous table on self‐generated renewable electricity. Breakdown of energy consumption by type Category Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Offices (leased and owned) Office total energy use MWh 327,347 195,438 190,316 -41.9% -2.6% Office – % of Electricity from renewables % 28.1% 95.8% 98.0% - - Office energy usage per m2 MWh/ m2 0.139 0.091 0.094 -32.4% 3.3% Data centers (leased and owned) Data centers (Leased and owned) total energy use MWh 9,769 5,584 5,168 -47.1% -7.4% Data centers (Leased and owned) – % Electricity from renewables % 36.8% 100% 100% - - Total Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 -42.0% -2.8% Third party data centers Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – Total MWh 83,736 41,525 41,734 -50.2% 0.5% Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – % of electricity from renewables % 68.6% 86.6% 88.0% - - 1) Energy for all our leased and owned offices is included above, with the exception of a few small, serviced offices and co‐working spaces which are reported within the category Scope 3.1 purchased goods and services. 2) In the last few years, most of our data centers have transitioned from being leased or owned to being third‐party managed. For increased transparency, we report the energy consumption associated with third‐party data centers in the last two rows of the table. However, to ensure alignment with the GHG Protocol and RE100, these are not included in the total energy consumption figures or any of the other tables in this Section. Power Usage Effectiveness Metrics Unit 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 Data centers (Leased and owned) – Power Usage Effectiveness # 1.7527 1.6198 1.6057 1.5853 1.5515 1) Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) is a standard industry measure of how energy efficient a data center is. It compares the amount of non‐computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount of energy used to power IT equipment. To help us track the energy efficiency of the data centers we use, we calculate a weighted average of the PUE of leased and owned data centers (with the weighting based on the total energy consumption of each data center)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 215 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) GHG emissions and performance Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are calculated following the methodology outlined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard, using an operational control approach. For the majority of GHG emissions sources (energy usage, business travel, F-gas, waste and water) is collected monthly or quarterly from 42 countries. Data on commuting and working from home is mostly gathered annually through the implementation of a global survey, with some supplementary data sets considered where available. Data on our purchased goods and services is gathered annually in collaboration with the Group Procurement team, utilizing a combination of spend data and supplier or product specific data. GHG emissions for Scope 1 energy and F-gas, Scope 3 travel and commuting and Scope 3 waste are calculated using the emission factors recommended by the United Kingdom Government’s Emission Factors. GHG emissions for category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services are calculated in part using spend-based emission factors sourced from Exiobase, US EPA and the UK Government. For two specific categories, professional services and external resources, we have developed bespoke emission factors based on internal Capgemini data, as we found that our external contractors’ emissions profiles are closer to the Capgemini average than the spend-based factors. In addition, we use product‐specific carbon footprint data from equipment manufacturers for hardware related emissions, as well as supplier‐specific data provided through the CDP supply chain program for some of our key suppliers. For Scope 3.1 emissions associated with third party data centers, we work with suppliers to gather real data on energy and fuel consumption and utilize emission factors from the UK Government’s Emission Factors, as well as supplier‐specific emission factors for electricity consumption. Emissions from co-working spaces are included in category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services. For Scope 2 electricity, as per the GHG Protocol, we calculate emissions in two ways, using both the market-based and the location-based approach. The greenhouse gas emission data that we present throughout this report are aggregated on the basis of market-based emissions approach, which is also the main approach used to calculate progress against targets. Location-based emissions are provided only in the table in this Section. — For Scope 2 market-based emissions we have assumed an emission factor of 0 for electricity purchased on renewable PPAs and/or backed up by renewable energy attribute certificates. Where renewable electricity is not in place, we have used a residual fuel mix factor, sourced for from RE-DISS for countries in Europe. In locations where neither supplier- based nor residual fuel mix factors are available, we have used a location-based emission factor. For Scope 2 emissions associated with purchased heat or cooling, we have used supplier‐specific emission factors where available, and UK Government’s Emission Factors where not available. — For the location-based approach, regional electricity emission factors have been applied for India (Central Electricity Authority), the UK (BEIS), Australia (NGA), Canada (Canada National Inventory), China (China National Bureau of Statistics), and the US (eGrid). For all the other countries, emission factors from International Energy Agency (IEA) have been applied to calculate Scope 2 location-based emissions. Where possible, we gather actual data – such as kWh from digital metering systems or invoices and mileage data from travel agents and expense systems. Data is estimated in the following cases: — when actual data has been delayed beyond the reporting deadline – this data in this report is finalized by early January 2025, by which point not all invoices and expenses are submitted so data is estimated for missing months; — when a small entity does not have the resources available to collect the data – we report data on 99.8% of operations by headcount, the remaining proportion is in smaller entities, typically where there are less than 250 employees. In these countries, data is estimated based on the Group average – with the estimation adjusted in proportion to the floor area/ headcount; — in leased buildings we sometimes do not have the necessary access to invoices and plant infrastructure to gather actual data – in many cases landlords and building owners do provide actual data anyway, but in some cases, we use estimations to fill data gaps; — when we are a tenant of a shared facility with no sub-metering or tenant-specific data – in this case data is allocated based on floor area or number of employees; and — a percentage of employees do not book their travel through the approved travel agency – to account for these cases we extrapolate the data by applying a percentage uplift to the travel agency data. The calculation of the emissions associated with employee commuting and working from home are based on the commuting survey results from 2024. The responses of over 81,000 employees (24% of our headcount), provided insight into the distance employees travelled for each mode of transport, the frequency of commuting versus working from home and the energy consumption and main sources of emissions whilst working from home (including from heating, cooling and IT equipment). For each country, the average commuting emissions and working from home emissions per employee have been calculated which we extrapolated on a country basis to reflect the total number of employees. A small number of countries did not have a big enough population size or survey response rate to constitute a statistically significant sample, and therefore in these cases the data was extrapolated using the Group average."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 211 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 — setting our first Science Based Targets in 2016 and, in 2022, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line with the Corporate Net Zero Standard and a 1.5°C trajectory; and (1) EV data is calculated as of 30/11/2024. Approximately 1500 vehicles in India (accounting for around 11% of the total number of company cars) have been excluded from our EV targets so have not been included in the data above. — becoming a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign – a coalition of leading net zero initiatives. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5‐degree targets in 2020. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007. 4.3.3.4 Targets related to climate change mitigation Net zero performance indicators Headline (SBTi) targets Near term targets (2030) Long term targets (2040) Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % change vs 2019 % change vs 2023 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions -80% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -92.8% √ -17.9% Scope 3 Business travel emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.26 0.50 0.48 √ -61.9% √ -4.0% Scope 3 employee commuting emissions per employee (average total headcount) -55% per employee -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 1.08 0.50 0.55 √ -49.1% √ 9.8% Scope 3 purchased goods and services -50% absolute -90% absolute SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -1.4% √ -14.4% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Supporting performance indicators Supporting targets Near term targets Long term targets Target methodology 2019 2023 2024 % of electricity from renewable sources 100% by 2025 Maintain 100% RE100 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ Electric vehicles (including electric plug‐in hybrids) (1) - - - - 34.0% 71.4% Electric vehicles (excluding electric plug‐in hybrids) 100% by 2030 Maintain 100% EV100 - - 25.6% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. Capgemini has set a headline Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated net zero target, which is to achieve 90% absolute reduction across our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040, against a 2019 baseline. This means reducing our total 2019 emissions from 1.13 million tons of CO2e to around 113,000 tons of CO2e by 2040, which equates to an absolute reduction of 1.02 million tons of CO2e. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined accounted for 14% of our emissions in the baseline year, and our combined Scope 1 and 2 target will see these emissions reduce by 90% from 154,078 tons of CO2e in 2019 to 15,408 tons of CO2e in 2040, an absolute reduction of 138,670 tons of CO2e. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 977,472 tons of CO2e in 2019 and according to our SBTi target will reduce to 97,747 tons of CO2e in 2040, a reduction of 879,725 tons of CO2e. In order to achieve our target and ensure we are on track, we have set several near‐term emissions reduction targets: — an absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 business travel emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; — a reduction of Scope 3 commuting emissions by 55% per employee by 2030; and — an absolute reduction in Scope 3 purchased goods and services emissions by 50% by 2030. In addition, we have set two supporting targets, which also contribute towards our emissions reduction strategy: — transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (as part of our RE100 commitment); and — transitioning our company fleet to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 (as part of our EV 100 commitment)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 212 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2019 has been chosen as a baseline year for all targets as it represents a typical operating year prior to the impacts of the Covid pandemic and is representative in terms of business areas and activities covered by Capgemini. It is also the year in which Capgemini finalized its acquisition of Altran, significantly expanding its engineering and R&D capabilities and growing the Capgemini Group headcount by over 47,000 people. Due to the transformative nature of this acquisition, it is not meaningful to report in detail on progress prior to 2019. It is perhaps worth noting that Capgemini was in 2016 one of the first in its sector to set science‐based targets approved by SBTi: Capgemini’s headline target of a GHG emission reduction of 30% per employee (vs 2015) was met in January 2020, before the Covid lockdowns came into effect. We continue to accelerate our carbon reduction program across our largest climate‐related impact areas. Looking at our footprint across our value chain, we know our biggest carbon impacts result from the the goods and services we procure, our commuting and business‐related travel as well as the energy use in our facilities. Our near‐term 2030 targets tackle all these areas, covering 98% of our total GHG emissions in both the baseline year and 2024. Our net zero 2040 target covers 100% of our total GHG emissions. In 2024, Capgemini made significant strides towards achieving its targets. We reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 93% reduction (vs 2019) primarily driven by our transition to 98% renewable electricity globally. Notably, 32 countries within our operations now run on 100% renewable energy, with over 14,000 MWh of solar power generated on-site. This progress has been supported by our innovative energy-saving initiatives such as our Energy Command Center in India, which has helped reduce global office energy consumption by 42% since 2019. Our commitment to reducing Scope 3 emissions, which represent a larger challenge, also saw advancements. In 2024, business travel emissions remained 51% lower than pre-pandemic levels and our hybrid working policies continue to keep commuting emissions per employee 49% lower than in 2019. Collaborations with suppliers are also central to our approach, as 41% of our emissions stem from purchased goods and services. Through our supplier engagement workshops and ESG Pledge, we have gained commitments from suppliers representing 35% of our spend to align with the ESG pledge. Water conservation is another area where we saw marked improvements, with total water withdrawal down 50% from 2019. Initiatives like rainwater harvesting and advanced sewage treatment facilities across our campuses have been pivotal, particularly in water-stressed regions such as India. Waste reduction and circularity are core to our environmental strategy. We reduced waste per employee by 56% compared to 2019, and our Global Zero Waste Standard is ensuring we minimize waste and embed circularity throughout our operations. Overall, in 2024, we have reduced our total GHG emissions by 393,251 tCO2e in absolute terms since 2019, corresponding to a 35% reduction. Alongside our target to reduce our absolute carbon emissions by 90% across all scopes by 2040, we have also made a commitment to scaling up our contribution to climate and nature solutions. We currently invest in projects that will generate high-quality carbon credits (as defined by independent standards) that have a positive impact for the planet and deliver wider social and environmental co-benefits. We continue to reduce our negative impacts and maximize positive actions in other areas, including water and waste, promoting circularity and biodiversity initiatives (please refer to Sections 4.4 “Circular economy and resources” and 4.5 “Other environmental topics” below for further information). We have defined our net zero target in line with SBTi’s Corporate Net-Zero Standard methodology, which requires that companies commit to reaching net zero by 2050. SBTi validation demonstrates the alignment of our targets with the Paris Agreement and with global efforts to limit the global temperature increases to within 1.5 degrees Celsius versus pre-industrial levels. Setting a target to reach net zero by 2040, 10 years ahead of the timeline recommended by SBTi and the Paris Agreement, is ambitious and will hopefully encourage others within our value chain (clients and suppliers) to follow our lead and make equally ambitious commitments. This target aligns with international policy goals, in particular the 2015 Paris Agreement. It covers all our greenhouse gas emissions (which are measured in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and aggregated in tonnes of CO2e) including Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O), as well as any Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) which are primarily used in our air conditioning and refrigerant systems. Our climate targets have been defined through consultation and collaboration with key internal functions (Sustainability, Real Estate, Procurement, Group IT), as well as key Capgemini country and region leads. The targets were ultimately approved by our Net Zero Board including our Group CEO and Board of Directors, before being validated by the SBTi. We have not made any changes to our targets during the reporting period. Minor changes have been made to the emissions calculation methodology and emissions data for historic years, which are provided in more detail in Section 4.3.3.5 b) “GHG emissions and performance”. Progress against most of our targets is reviewed on a quarterly basis by our Net Zero Board, as well as our Cross-Function Committee and Group Sustainability networks. The Board of Directors is updated regularly on our progress against the targets. We also forecast both our year‐end position (to help with short‐term planning) and a long‐term view of how we expect our progress against the targets to evolve over the next few years. Our progress against meeting our target before 2024 is discussed in more detail in Section 4.3.3.1. “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition”. Our description of our decarbonization levers and their overall quantitative contributions to achieve GHG emission reduction target can be found across Sections 4.3.3.1 “Our road to Net Zero: strategy and transition” and 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program of this Sustainability Statement”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 213 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 4.3.3.5 Metrics related to our net zero program We measure our environmental performance through our global carbon accounting system, which provides a comprehensive data set on a range of metrics, including energy consumption, water consumption, F-gas, waste disposal, and GHG emissions across all three scopes. Millions of data points are collected and analyzed on an ongoing basis and presented back to internal stakeholders in a range of interactive dashboards. Having one centralized team and system responsible for gathering, processing, and reporting data helps us maintain a high level of consistency and data quality. We use this extensive data set to enable a very granular view of greenhouse gas emissions, and to help us pinpoint opportunities to reduce emissions. In 2024, we have been further expanding the coverage of our carbon accounting, by adding operations in Egypt and Slovakia to our reporting. Detailed data gathering now takes place in 42 countries covering 99.8% of our global operations by headcount, with data for the remaining 0.2% of operations estimated. We continue to capture and report data monthly for our biggest countries (representing over 75% of the Group’s office and travel emissions), and for the largest sources of emission enabling faster engagement with the data and results. We also maintain a series of interactive dashboards for our Sustainability, Procurement and Real Estate communities to engage with the data. Data from our carbon accounting system also feeds into other systems and processes. Any data that cannot be provided is calculated based on assumptions, estimations, or extrapolations that are mutually agreed between the Carbon Accounting Team, the sustainability lead within that country and the data owner for that data source, in accordance with the reporting procedure. The estimation process is validated by the carbon accounting team to ensure consistency in approach across the Group. Estimation approaches include, for example, extrapolating data from the same country and source to cover missing months of data, estimating the consumption based on cost per unit of consumption, or utilizing use figures of another site in the same country or region to fill gaps. a) Energy consumption and mix Energy consumption from non‐renewable and renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Total energy consumption from fossil sources MWh 254,635 35,982 31,270 -87.7% -13.1% a. LPG, diesel and gas oil (crude oil and petroleum products) MWh 14,899 4,845 5,869 -60.6% 21.1% b. Natural gas MWh 21,282 11,524 9,290 -56.3% -19.4% c. Purchased electricity from fossil sources MWh 208,433 6,975 2,579 -98.8% -63.0% d. Purchased heating from non‐renewable sources MWh 7,523 11,048 11,941 58.7% 8.1% e. Purchased cooling from non‐renewable sources MWh 2,498 1,591 1,590 -36.3% -0.1% Total energy consumption from nuclear sources MWh - - 0 - - Total energy consumption from renewable sources MWh 82,481 165,041 164,213 99.1% -0.5% a. Fuel consumption for renewable sources including biomass, biogas MWh - 2,396 2,039 - -14.9% b. Purchased electricity from renewable sources MWh 74,742 148,741 148,504 98.7% -0.2% c. Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity MWh 7,739 13,904 13,670 76.6% -1.7% Percentage of total electricity from renewable sources % 28.3% 95.9% 98.0% √ - - Percentage of total energy from renewable sources % 24.5% 82.1% 84.0% - - Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 √ -42.0% -2.8% √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. 1) Purchased electricity from fossil sources is based on our purchases of electricity on standard utility contracts, where there is no specified breakdown of the source of electricity and no energy attribute certificates are purchased. 2) Purchased electricity from renewable sources includes all renewable electricity purchased through power purchase agreements, renewable electricity tariffs or through energy attribute certificates. 3) Consumption of self‐generated renewable electricity refers to electricity that is generated at our sites (from solar photovoltaic panels) and then consumed directly at those sites."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 214 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Energy production from renewable and non‐renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Non‐renewable electricity production MWh 2,397 958 1,044 -56.4% 9.0% Renewable electricity production MWh 7,739 13,904 14,326 85.1% 3.0% 1) Non‐renewable electricity production is largely electricity generated by diesel generators and used primarily as a source of back‐up in the case of power outages. 2) Renewable electricity production is renewable electricity generated from on‐site solar panels. The majority of this is used on site, but a small portion (656 MWh in 2024) is exported to the grid and used locally, as it is generated during weekends and holidays when we generate more than we can use. This is the reason the figure is higher in this table than the previous table on self‐generated renewable electricity. Breakdown of energy consumption by type Category Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Offices (leased and owned) Office total energy use MWh 327,347 195,438 190,316 -41.9% -2.6% Office – % of Electricity from renewables % 28.1% 95.8% 98.0% - - Office energy usage per m2 MWh/ m2 0.139 0.091 0.094 -32.4% 3.3% Data centers (leased and owned) Data centers (Leased and owned) total energy use MWh 9,769 5,584 5,168 -47.1% -7.4% Data centers (Leased and owned) – % Electricity from renewables % 36.8% 100% 100% - - Total Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 -42.0% -2.8% Third party data centers Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – Total MWh 83,736 41,525 41,734 -50.2% 0.5% Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – % of electricity from renewables % 68.6% 86.6% 88.0% - - 1) Energy for all our leased and owned offices is included above, with the exception of a few small, serviced offices and co‐working spaces which are reported within the category Scope 3.1 purchased goods and services. 2) In the last few years, most of our data centers have transitioned from being leased or owned to being third‐party managed. For increased transparency, we report the energy consumption associated with third‐party data centers in the last two rows of the table. However, to ensure alignment with the GHG Protocol and RE100, these are not included in the total energy consumption figures or any of the other tables in this Section. Power Usage Effectiveness Metrics Unit 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 Data centers (Leased and owned) – Power Usage Effectiveness # 1.7527 1.6198 1.6057 1.5853 1.5515 1) Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) is a standard industry measure of how energy efficient a data center is. It compares the amount of non‐computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount of energy used to power IT equipment. To help us track the energy efficiency of the data centers we use, we calculate a weighted average of the PUE of leased and owned data centers (with the weighting based on the total energy consumption of each data center)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 215 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) GHG emissions and performance Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are calculated following the methodology outlined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard, using an operational control approach. For the majority of GHG emissions sources (energy usage, business travel, F-gas, waste and water) is collected monthly or quarterly from 42 countries. Data on commuting and working from home is mostly gathered annually through the implementation of a global survey, with some supplementary data sets considered where available. Data on our purchased goods and services is gathered annually in collaboration with the Group Procurement team, utilizing a combination of spend data and supplier or product specific data. GHG emissions for Scope 1 energy and F-gas, Scope 3 travel and commuting and Scope 3 waste are calculated using the emission factors recommended by the United Kingdom Government’s Emission Factors. GHG emissions for category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services are calculated in part using spend-based emission factors sourced from Exiobase, US EPA and the UK Government. For two specific categories, professional services and external resources, we have developed bespoke emission factors based on internal Capgemini data, as we found that our external contractors’ emissions profiles are closer to the Capgemini average than the spend-based factors. In addition, we use product‐specific carbon footprint data from equipment manufacturers for hardware related emissions, as well as supplier‐specific data provided through the CDP supply chain program for some of our key suppliers. For Scope 3.1 emissions associated with third party data centers, we work with suppliers to gather real data on energy and fuel consumption and utilize emission factors from the UK Government’s Emission Factors, as well as supplier‐specific emission factors for electricity consumption. Emissions from co-working spaces are included in category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services. For Scope 2 electricity, as per the GHG Protocol, we calculate emissions in two ways, using both the market-based and the location-based approach. The greenhouse gas emission data that we present throughout this report are aggregated on the basis of market-based emissions approach, which is also the main approach used to calculate progress against targets. Location-based emissions are provided only in the table in this Section. — For Scope 2 market-based emissions we have assumed an emission factor of 0 for electricity purchased on renewable PPAs and/or backed up by renewable energy attribute certificates. Where renewable electricity is not in place, we have used a residual fuel mix factor, sourced for from RE-DISS for countries in Europe. In locations where neither supplier- based nor residual fuel mix factors are available, we have used a location-based emission factor. For Scope 2 emissions associated with purchased heat or cooling, we have used supplier‐specific emission factors where available, and UK Government’s Emission Factors where not available. — For the location-based approach, regional electricity emission factors have been applied for India (Central Electricity Authority), the UK (BEIS), Australia (NGA), Canada (Canada National Inventory), China (China National Bureau of Statistics), and the US (eGrid). For all the other countries, emission factors from International Energy Agency (IEA) have been applied to calculate Scope 2 location-based emissions. Where possible, we gather actual data – such as kWh from digital metering systems or invoices and mileage data from travel agents and expense systems. Data is estimated in the following cases: — when actual data has been delayed beyond the reporting deadline – this data in this report is finalized by early January 2025, by which point not all invoices and expenses are submitted so data is estimated for missing months; — when a small entity does not have the resources available to collect the data – we report data on 99.8% of operations by headcount, the remaining proportion is in smaller entities, typically where there are less than 250 employees. In these countries, data is estimated based on the Group average – with the estimation adjusted in proportion to the floor area/ headcount; — in leased buildings we sometimes do not have the necessary access to invoices and plant infrastructure to gather actual data – in many cases landlords and building owners do provide actual data anyway, but in some cases, we use estimations to fill data gaps; — when we are a tenant of a shared facility with no sub-metering or tenant-specific data – in this case data is allocated based on floor area or number of employees; and — a percentage of employees do not book their travel through the approved travel agency – to account for these cases we extrapolate the data by applying a percentage uplift to the travel agency data. The calculation of the emissions associated with employee commuting and working from home are based on the commuting survey results from 2024. The responses of over 81,000 employees (24% of our headcount), provided insight into the distance employees travelled for each mode of transport, the frequency of commuting versus working from home and the energy consumption and main sources of emissions whilst working from home (including from heating, cooling and IT equipment). For each country, the average commuting emissions and working from home emissions per employee have been calculated which we extrapolated on a country basis to reflect the total number of employees. A small number of countries did not have a big enough population size or survey response rate to constitute a statistically significant sample, and therefore in these cases the data was extrapolated using the Group average."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 216 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Gross indirect GHG emissions categories Metrics Retrospective Targets Base year 2019 2023 2024 % N/N-1 2030 2040 Annual % Target/ base year (1) Scope 1 GHG Emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 13,293 8,830 7,893 √ -10.6% - - - Scope 2 GHG Emissions Gross location‐based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 169,430 78,337 77,752 -0.7% - - - Gross market‐based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 140,785 4,765 3,267 √ -31.4% - - - Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions (market -based) 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -17.9% -80% absolute -90% absolute -7.3% Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 977,472 780,886 727,139 √ -6.9% - -90% absolute -4.3% 1 Purchased goods and services 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -14.4% -50% absolute - -4.5% Sub‐category: third party managed data centers 3,870 2,225 1,959 -12.0% - - - 2 Capital goods - - - - - - - 3 Fuel and energy‐related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 23,370 12,350 11,188 -9.4% - - - Upstream transportation and distribution - - - - - - - 5 Waste generated in operations 459 197 135 -31.5% - - - 6 Business traveling 337,203 175,465 163,656 √ -6.7% - - - 7 Employee commuting (including working from home emissions) 310,722 240,812 250,638 √ 4.1% - - - Sub‐category: Working from home 23,007 66,062 64,692 -2.1% - - - 8 Upstream leased assets - - - - - - - 9 Downstream transportation - - - - - - - 10 Processing of sold products - - - - - - - 11 Use of sold products - - - - - - - 12 End‐of‐life treatment of sold products - - - - - - - 13 Downstream leased assets - - - - - - - 14 Franchises - - - - - - - 15 Investments - - - - - - - Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (market‐based) (tCO2e) 1,131,550 794,481 738,299 √ -7.1% - -90% absolute -4.3% Total GHG emissions (market‐based) per net revenue (tCO2e/Monetary unit) 80 35 33.41 -5.3% - - - √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. (1) Annual average reduction in percentages from the baseline year 2019 required to reach the absolute 2030 targets for scope 1 and 2 emissions and purchased goods and services. For our total scope 3 emissions and total GHG emissions this has been done in relation to our 2040 target. We have applied the required EFRAG formula to comply – this represents the average annual % reductions needed to achieve our absolute targets, however it does not represent our year‐on‐year expected reduction, which may vary annually."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 217 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 There have been no significant acquisitions, mergers or other major changes to the business that have required the recalculation of GHG emissions for previous years. There have been minor changes to emissions reported for previous years for the following reasons: — two new countries (Egypt and Slovakia) have been onboarded on the carbon accounting system with previously estimated data replaced with actuals; — some data centers leased by Capgemini are being managed by a third party now. Therefore, their emissions have moved from Scope 1 & 2 to Scope 3 for all years; and — we have received updated information for some countries and corrected minor errors. To ensure year on year comparability, data for all years has been updated where relevant to do so. These changes to historic data are not significant at a Group level, accounting for 0.02% change in total GHG emissions for 2019 and 0.24% change in total GHG emissions for 2023 emissions. However, they are significant at a country or emission source level and therefore have been implemented to ensure year‐on‐year comparability of granular data. Scope 1 emissions relate to direct emissions from buildings or assets – for Capgemini this includes fuel consumption and fluorinated gas (F-gas) used in air conditioning units of the offices and data centers under the Company’s operational control. Scope 2 emissions include emissions associated with the consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or cooling. The reduction in our Scope 2 emissions against the baseline year is the result of a significant increase in the use of renewable electricity. Scope 3 emissions are indirect greenhouse gas emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain. We have assessed the relevance of all GHG Protocol Scope 3 categories and determined that relevant emission categories include 3.1 purchased goods and services, 3.3 fuel and energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) – for Capgemini in particular electricity transmission and distribution losses, 3.5 waste management, 3.6 business travel, 3.7 employee commuting (including working from home). Category 3.1 also includes a small portion of emissions associated with 3.2 capital goods and 3.4 upstream transportation and distribution as there is not always a satisfactory way of separating these emissions. Other Scope 3 categories have been evaluated according to the GHG Protocol criteria, focusing particularly on the size of emissions, the level of stakeholder interest and our ability to influence these emissions, and have been determined as not relevant. Over the last few years, Capgemini has transitioned from having a majority of leased data centers to having a majority of third party managed data centers which are now reported under scope 3.1 emissions, but as a separate line for full transparency. As recommended by the GHG Protocol, emissions of F-gas not covered by the Kyoto Protocol such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are not reported as Scope 1 emissions and are therefore not included above. These F-gas emissions are, however, captured with a value of 258 tons of CO2e for 2024. Our business travel emissions have been calculated including the impact of radiative forcing for air travel and we have also accounted for hotel emissions. We also include company cars within the business travel category, as they are not owned or leased directly by Capgemini but by employees. Not all companies in our sector take this approach so direct comparisons should be made with appropriate awareness and caution. For Belgium and Luxembourg, car emissions have been excluded from commute as they are already accounted for under business travel. Emissions from employee commuting have increased in 2024 as more employees are working from the office (especially in India, which accounts for more than half of the headcount). The total GHG emissions per unit revenue has been calculated by dividing the total GHG emissions (market‐based) by the total revenue. The revenue figures can be found in Chapter 5 “Financial Information” of the 2024 Universal Registration Document. Other Greenhouse Gas Emission metrics Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs 2023 Total operational emissions tCO2e 831,663 444,959 439,053 -47.2% -1.3% Operational emissions per employee (average total headcount) tCO2e/head 3.11 1.28 1.30 -58.2% 1.6% Total emissions per employee (average total headcount) tCO2e/head 4.23 2.28 2.19 -48.2% -3.9%"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 218 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GHG emissions by region Metrics Unit 2024 Europe Middle East & Africa tCO2e 275,897 Scope 1 tCO2e 1,965 Scope 2 tCO2e 2,770 Scope 3 tCO2e 271,162 Asia-Pacific tCO2e 372,399 Scope 1 tCO2e 5,776 Scope 2 tCO2e 406 Scope 3 tCO2e 366,217 Americas tCO2e 90,002 Scope 1 tCO2e 152 Scope 2 tCO2e 91 Scope 3 tCO2e 89,760 Additional quantitative data Metrics Unit Reporting year 2024 Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh obtained through renewable Power Purchase Agreements % 21.4% Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh obtained through renewable contracts bundled with energy attribute certificates % 24.8% Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh associated with unbundled renewable energy attribute certificates % 43.9% Percentage of emissions calculated using primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain % 30.0% Across the Group we have four main methods for sourcing renewable electricity: 1) renewable self‐generation (8% of total electricity consumption) – this is mostly in India, where we own several buildings and have the capacity to install solar photovoltaics, 2) Renewable Power Purchase Agreements (21% of total electricity consumption) – only in place India, where our volume is sufficiently high to make PPAs an option, 3) renewable tariffs, with energy attribute certificates bundled as part of contract (25% of total electricity consumption) – these are in place in the Netherlands and with energy attribute certificates including Guarantee of Origin (GoO) certificates, and 4) Unbundled energy attribute certificates are in place for most other countries (44% of total electricity consumption), with the main instruments used including GoO, REGO, LGC, NZEC and IREC. c) GHG removals and avoidance projects Currently achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts, and the voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our business, with a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% in absolute terms across all scopes by 2040, we are also investing in nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere. Whilst there are a number of different perspectives on the role of carbon credits, our approach is broadly aligned to the view that carbon removal credits can be used when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated and move towards net zero. However, we also believe that long‐term corporate objectives are not sufficiently addressing the high concentration levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases already in, and continuing to enter, the atmosphere today. For these reasons, in addition to reducing our emissions as set out in our carbon reduction targets, we will retire carbon credits on a ton‐for‐ton basis against the residual carbon emissions, associated with our direct operations from 2025 and against the residual emissions including our supply chain from 2030. We do not make any public claims about GHG neutrality. We believe it is essential instead to align on the standards about how to best invest in carbon removals and abatement through nature and climate solutions and welcome the ongoing work of organizations such as the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative (VCMI) and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (IC-VCM) in this area. For more details of our approach to nature and climate solutions and the principles we apply to ensure integrity and credibility, please refer to Section 4.3.3.2 “Policy contributing to our net zero program”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 214 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Energy production from renewable and non‐renewable sources Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Non‐renewable electricity production MWh 2,397 958 1,044 -56.4% 9.0% Renewable electricity production MWh 7,739 13,904 14,326 85.1% 3.0% 1) Non‐renewable electricity production is largely electricity generated by diesel generators and used primarily as a source of back‐up in the case of power outages. 2) Renewable electricity production is renewable electricity generated from on‐site solar panels. The majority of this is used on site, but a small portion (656 MWh in 2024) is exported to the grid and used locally, as it is generated during weekends and holidays when we generate more than we can use. This is the reason the figure is higher in this table than the previous table on self‐generated renewable electricity. Breakdown of energy consumption by type Category Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs. 2023 Offices (leased and owned) Office total energy use MWh 327,347 195,438 190,316 -41.9% -2.6% Office – % of Electricity from renewables % 28.1% 95.8% 98.0% - - Office energy usage per m2 MWh/ m2 0.139 0.091 0.094 -32.4% 3.3% Data centers (leased and owned) Data centers (Leased and owned) total energy use MWh 9,769 5,584 5,168 -47.1% -7.4% Data centers (Leased and owned) – % Electricity from renewables % 36.8% 100% 100% - - Total Total energy consumption related to own operations MWh 337,116 201,022 195,483 -42.0% -2.8% Third party data centers Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – Total MWh 83,736 41,525 41,734 -50.2% 0.5% Data centers (Third party managed) energy use – % of electricity from renewables % 68.6% 86.6% 88.0% - - 1) Energy for all our leased and owned offices is included above, with the exception of a few small, serviced offices and co‐working spaces which are reported within the category Scope 3.1 purchased goods and services. 2) In the last few years, most of our data centers have transitioned from being leased or owned to being third‐party managed. For increased transparency, we report the energy consumption associated with third‐party data centers in the last two rows of the table. However, to ensure alignment with the GHG Protocol and RE100, these are not included in the total energy consumption figures or any of the other tables in this Section. Power Usage Effectiveness Metrics Unit 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 Data centers (Leased and owned) – Power Usage Effectiveness # 1.7527 1.6198 1.6057 1.5853 1.5515 1) Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) is a standard industry measure of how energy efficient a data center is. It compares the amount of non‐computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount of energy used to power IT equipment. To help us track the energy efficiency of the data centers we use, we calculate a weighted average of the PUE of leased and owned data centers (with the weighting based on the total energy consumption of each data center)."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 215 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 b) GHG emissions and performance Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are calculated following the methodology outlined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard, using an operational control approach. For the majority of GHG emissions sources (energy usage, business travel, F-gas, waste and water) is collected monthly or quarterly from 42 countries. Data on commuting and working from home is mostly gathered annually through the implementation of a global survey, with some supplementary data sets considered where available. Data on our purchased goods and services is gathered annually in collaboration with the Group Procurement team, utilizing a combination of spend data and supplier or product specific data. GHG emissions for Scope 1 energy and F-gas, Scope 3 travel and commuting and Scope 3 waste are calculated using the emission factors recommended by the United Kingdom Government’s Emission Factors. GHG emissions for category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services are calculated in part using spend-based emission factors sourced from Exiobase, US EPA and the UK Government. For two specific categories, professional services and external resources, we have developed bespoke emission factors based on internal Capgemini data, as we found that our external contractors’ emissions profiles are closer to the Capgemini average than the spend-based factors. In addition, we use product‐specific carbon footprint data from equipment manufacturers for hardware related emissions, as well as supplier‐specific data provided through the CDP supply chain program for some of our key suppliers. For Scope 3.1 emissions associated with third party data centers, we work with suppliers to gather real data on energy and fuel consumption and utilize emission factors from the UK Government’s Emission Factors, as well as supplier‐specific emission factors for electricity consumption. Emissions from co-working spaces are included in category 3.1 Purchased Goods and Services. For Scope 2 electricity, as per the GHG Protocol, we calculate emissions in two ways, using both the market-based and the location-based approach. The greenhouse gas emission data that we present throughout this report are aggregated on the basis of market-based emissions approach, which is also the main approach used to calculate progress against targets. Location-based emissions are provided only in the table in this Section. — For Scope 2 market-based emissions we have assumed an emission factor of 0 for electricity purchased on renewable PPAs and/or backed up by renewable energy attribute certificates. Where renewable electricity is not in place, we have used a residual fuel mix factor, sourced for from RE-DISS for countries in Europe. In locations where neither supplier- based nor residual fuel mix factors are available, we have used a location-based emission factor. For Scope 2 emissions associated with purchased heat or cooling, we have used supplier‐specific emission factors where available, and UK Government’s Emission Factors where not available. — For the location-based approach, regional electricity emission factors have been applied for India (Central Electricity Authority), the UK (BEIS), Australia (NGA), Canada (Canada National Inventory), China (China National Bureau of Statistics), and the US (eGrid). For all the other countries, emission factors from International Energy Agency (IEA) have been applied to calculate Scope 2 location-based emissions. Where possible, we gather actual data – such as kWh from digital metering systems or invoices and mileage data from travel agents and expense systems. Data is estimated in the following cases: — when actual data has been delayed beyond the reporting deadline – this data in this report is finalized by early January 2025, by which point not all invoices and expenses are submitted so data is estimated for missing months; — when a small entity does not have the resources available to collect the data – we report data on 99.8% of operations by headcount, the remaining proportion is in smaller entities, typically where there are less than 250 employees. In these countries, data is estimated based on the Group average – with the estimation adjusted in proportion to the floor area/ headcount; — in leased buildings we sometimes do not have the necessary access to invoices and plant infrastructure to gather actual data – in many cases landlords and building owners do provide actual data anyway, but in some cases, we use estimations to fill data gaps; — when we are a tenant of a shared facility with no sub-metering or tenant-specific data – in this case data is allocated based on floor area or number of employees; and — a percentage of employees do not book their travel through the approved travel agency – to account for these cases we extrapolate the data by applying a percentage uplift to the travel agency data. The calculation of the emissions associated with employee commuting and working from home are based on the commuting survey results from 2024. The responses of over 81,000 employees (24% of our headcount), provided insight into the distance employees travelled for each mode of transport, the frequency of commuting versus working from home and the energy consumption and main sources of emissions whilst working from home (including from heating, cooling and IT equipment). For each country, the average commuting emissions and working from home emissions per employee have been calculated which we extrapolated on a country basis to reflect the total number of employees. A small number of countries did not have a big enough population size or survey response rate to constitute a statistically significant sample, and therefore in these cases the data was extrapolated using the Group average."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 216 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Gross indirect GHG emissions categories Metrics Retrospective Targets Base year 2019 2023 2024 % N/N-1 2030 2040 Annual % Target/ base year (1) Scope 1 GHG Emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 13,293 8,830 7,893 √ -10.6% - - - Scope 2 GHG Emissions Gross location‐based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 169,430 78,337 77,752 -0.7% - - - Gross market‐based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 140,785 4,765 3,267 √ -31.4% - - - Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions (market -based) 154,078 13,596 11,159 √ -17.9% -80% absolute -90% absolute -7.3% Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 977,472 780,886 727,139 √ -6.9% - -90% absolute -4.3% 1 Purchased goods and services 305,718 352,062 301,522 √ -14.4% -50% absolute - -4.5% Sub‐category: third party managed data centers 3,870 2,225 1,959 -12.0% - - - 2 Capital goods - - - - - - - 3 Fuel and energy‐related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 23,370 12,350 11,188 -9.4% - - - Upstream transportation and distribution - - - - - - - 5 Waste generated in operations 459 197 135 -31.5% - - - 6 Business traveling 337,203 175,465 163,656 √ -6.7% - - - 7 Employee commuting (including working from home emissions) 310,722 240,812 250,638 √ 4.1% - - - Sub‐category: Working from home 23,007 66,062 64,692 -2.1% - - - 8 Upstream leased assets - - - - - - - 9 Downstream transportation - - - - - - - 10 Processing of sold products - - - - - - - 11 Use of sold products - - - - - - - 12 End‐of‐life treatment of sold products - - - - - - - 13 Downstream leased assets - - - - - - - 14 Franchises - - - - - - - 15 Investments - - - - - - - Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (market‐based) (tCO2e) 1,131,550 794,481 738,299 √ -7.1% - -90% absolute -4.3% Total GHG emissions (market‐based) per net revenue (tCO2e/Monetary unit) 80 35 33.41 -5.3% - - - √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. (1) Annual average reduction in percentages from the baseline year 2019 required to reach the absolute 2030 targets for scope 1 and 2 emissions and purchased goods and services. For our total scope 3 emissions and total GHG emissions this has been done in relation to our 2040 target. We have applied the required EFRAG formula to comply – this represents the average annual % reductions needed to achieve our absolute targets, however it does not represent our year‐on‐year expected reduction, which may vary annually."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 217 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 There have been no significant acquisitions, mergers or other major changes to the business that have required the recalculation of GHG emissions for previous years. There have been minor changes to emissions reported for previous years for the following reasons: — two new countries (Egypt and Slovakia) have been onboarded on the carbon accounting system with previously estimated data replaced with actuals; — some data centers leased by Capgemini are being managed by a third party now. Therefore, their emissions have moved from Scope 1 & 2 to Scope 3 for all years; and — we have received updated information for some countries and corrected minor errors. To ensure year on year comparability, data for all years has been updated where relevant to do so. These changes to historic data are not significant at a Group level, accounting for 0.02% change in total GHG emissions for 2019 and 0.24% change in total GHG emissions for 2023 emissions. However, they are significant at a country or emission source level and therefore have been implemented to ensure year‐on‐year comparability of granular data. Scope 1 emissions relate to direct emissions from buildings or assets – for Capgemini this includes fuel consumption and fluorinated gas (F-gas) used in air conditioning units of the offices and data centers under the Company’s operational control. Scope 2 emissions include emissions associated with the consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or cooling. The reduction in our Scope 2 emissions against the baseline year is the result of a significant increase in the use of renewable electricity. Scope 3 emissions are indirect greenhouse gas emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain. We have assessed the relevance of all GHG Protocol Scope 3 categories and determined that relevant emission categories include 3.1 purchased goods and services, 3.3 fuel and energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) – for Capgemini in particular electricity transmission and distribution losses, 3.5 waste management, 3.6 business travel, 3.7 employee commuting (including working from home). Category 3.1 also includes a small portion of emissions associated with 3.2 capital goods and 3.4 upstream transportation and distribution as there is not always a satisfactory way of separating these emissions. Other Scope 3 categories have been evaluated according to the GHG Protocol criteria, focusing particularly on the size of emissions, the level of stakeholder interest and our ability to influence these emissions, and have been determined as not relevant. Over the last few years, Capgemini has transitioned from having a majority of leased data centers to having a majority of third party managed data centers which are now reported under scope 3.1 emissions, but as a separate line for full transparency. As recommended by the GHG Protocol, emissions of F-gas not covered by the Kyoto Protocol such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are not reported as Scope 1 emissions and are therefore not included above. These F-gas emissions are, however, captured with a value of 258 tons of CO2e for 2024. Our business travel emissions have been calculated including the impact of radiative forcing for air travel and we have also accounted for hotel emissions. We also include company cars within the business travel category, as they are not owned or leased directly by Capgemini but by employees. Not all companies in our sector take this approach so direct comparisons should be made with appropriate awareness and caution. For Belgium and Luxembourg, car emissions have been excluded from commute as they are already accounted for under business travel. Emissions from employee commuting have increased in 2024 as more employees are working from the office (especially in India, which accounts for more than half of the headcount). The total GHG emissions per unit revenue has been calculated by dividing the total GHG emissions (market‐based) by the total revenue. The revenue figures can be found in Chapter 5 “Financial Information” of the 2024 Universal Registration Document. Other Greenhouse Gas Emission metrics Metrics Unit 2019 2023 2024 % change vs. 2019 % change vs 2023 Total operational emissions tCO2e 831,663 444,959 439,053 -47.2% -1.3% Operational emissions per employee (average total headcount) tCO2e/head 3.11 1.28 1.30 -58.2% 1.6% Total emissions per employee (average total headcount) tCO2e/head 4.23 2.28 2.19 -48.2% -3.9%"
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 218 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GHG emissions by region Metrics Unit 2024 Europe Middle East & Africa tCO2e 275,897 Scope 1 tCO2e 1,965 Scope 2 tCO2e 2,770 Scope 3 tCO2e 271,162 Asia-Pacific tCO2e 372,399 Scope 1 tCO2e 5,776 Scope 2 tCO2e 406 Scope 3 tCO2e 366,217 Americas tCO2e 90,002 Scope 1 tCO2e 152 Scope 2 tCO2e 91 Scope 3 tCO2e 89,760 Additional quantitative data Metrics Unit Reporting year 2024 Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh obtained through renewable Power Purchase Agreements % 21.4% Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh obtained through renewable contracts bundled with energy attribute certificates % 24.8% Percentage of Scope 2 electricity in MWh associated with unbundled renewable energy attribute certificates % 43.9% Percentage of emissions calculated using primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain % 30.0% Across the Group we have four main methods for sourcing renewable electricity: 1) renewable self‐generation (8% of total electricity consumption) – this is mostly in India, where we own several buildings and have the capacity to install solar photovoltaics, 2) Renewable Power Purchase Agreements (21% of total electricity consumption) – only in place India, where our volume is sufficiently high to make PPAs an option, 3) renewable tariffs, with energy attribute certificates bundled as part of contract (25% of total electricity consumption) – these are in place in the Netherlands and with energy attribute certificates including Guarantee of Origin (GoO) certificates, and 4) Unbundled energy attribute certificates are in place for most other countries (44% of total electricity consumption), with the main instruments used including GoO, REGO, LGC, NZEC and IREC. c) GHG removals and avoidance projects Currently achieving a global net zero by 2050 requires nature and climate tech solutions for removing carbon from the atmosphere in addition to global decarbonization efforts, and the voluntary carbon market offers a mechanism to fund the investment in solutions that are needed. Whilst our primary focus is on actions to decarbonize our business, with a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 90% in absolute terms across all scopes by 2040, we are also investing in nature and climate tech solutions to abate and remove carbon from the atmosphere. Whilst there are a number of different perspectives on the role of carbon credits, our approach is broadly aligned to the view that carbon removal credits can be used when a company has met its long‐term reduction target, to mitigate the final percentage of emissions which cannot be abated and move towards net zero. However, we also believe that long‐term corporate objectives are not sufficiently addressing the high concentration levels of CO2 and other greenhouse gases already in, and continuing to enter, the atmosphere today. For these reasons, in addition to reducing our emissions as set out in our carbon reduction targets, we will retire carbon credits on a ton‐for‐ton basis against the residual carbon emissions, associated with our direct operations from 2025 and against the residual emissions including our supply chain from 2030. We do not make any public claims about GHG neutrality. We believe it is essential instead to align on the standards about how to best invest in carbon removals and abatement through nature and climate solutions and welcome the ongoing work of organizations such as the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative (VCMI) and the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (IC-VCM) in this area. For more details of our approach to nature and climate solutions and the principles we apply to ensure integrity and credibility, please refer to Section 4.3.3.2 “Policy contributing to our net zero program”."
"2024 Sustainability Statement Part II – Environmental information E1 – Climate change 219 2024 Universal Registration Document 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Total amount of carbon credits outside value chain that are verified against recognised quality standards and cancelled Project Name Project Category Project Type Registry Standards Methodology Volume retired in 2024 (tCO2e) XICO2e Carbono Vencedores y Anexos Removal IFM Climate Action Reserve 1. CAR MFP v3.0 5,411 XICO2e Carbono Forestal Ejido San Jose de Miravalles Removal IFM Climate Action Reserve 1. CAR MFP v3.0 1,606 XICO2e Ejido Pueblo Nuevo Removal IFM Climate Action Reserve 1. CAR MFP v3.0 23,064 XICO2e Ejido las Pintas, San Dimas Removal IFM Climate Action Reserve 1. CAR MFP v3.0 1,062 KOKO Kenya Avoidance/ reduction Ethanol Cookstoves Gold Standard 1. GS AMS-I.E. 39,000 Gyapa Cook Stoves Project in Ghana Avoidance Improved Cookstoves Gold Standard 1. GS GS TPDDTEC v 2 136,153 Brazilian Amazon APD Grouped Project Avoidance Avoided Planned Deforestation Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB VM0007 76,243 TIST Program Removal Agroforestry Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB AR-AMS0001 873 Miaoling Afforestation Removal Afforestation Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB AR-ACM0003 4,000 Guoluo Grassland Removal Grassland Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB VM0026 21,900 Delta Blue Carbon Removal Mangroves Verra 1. VCS 2. CCB VM0033 5,000 Sub-Total Removal 62,916 √ Sub-Total Avoidance/Reduction 251,396 √ Total 314,312 √ √ Data identified in these tables by a √ has been reviewed by Forvis Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance. The table above provides details of the carbon credits retired in 2024 by project, which recognized standards and methodologies they use, project types, where the projects are located, along with the volume of carbon credits retired in 2024. For more insights into some of the projects we are investing in please refer to Section 4.3.3.3 “Actions contributing to our net zero program”. In total, we retired 314,312 credits in 2024, up from 236,191 credits in 2023. 0% of credits retired in 2024 were issued from the EU and 0% of credits retired qualify as a corresponding adjustment under Article. 6 of the Paris Agreement."

--- Basic-Fit Annual_Report_2024_Webversion ---
"ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 41 Climate change and energy Fit to tackle climate change Following our DMA outcomes, we recognise that extreme weather events and other climate-related risks can have material effects on our business, and we aim to take action to adapt our business. We understand that to adapt effectively it will be necessary to begin by gaining clear insights into the types of risks and opportunities that climate change creates for us. This would help us to assess the resilience of our business in relation to such risks and define adaptation solutions as needed. With this objective in mind, Basic-Fit conducted its first climate-related risks and opportunities assessment (CRRO) in 2024. The outcomes of this, including how climate change-induced extreme weather events can affect our business, are presented in this section. We also work to mitigate our impact on climate change, mainly by reducing our GHG emissions through a more efficient use of energy. Last year, we set out to measure our Scope 3 emissions for the first time, and we now have a process for reporting our full emissions inventory, including improvements in our measurement of Scopes 1 and 2 emissions. Additionally, we will develop a register of climate change mitigation actions, including related decarbonisation levers and expected emissions reductions. All of this information is vital to develop a transition plan for climate change mitigation in a serious and well- informed manner. With these outcomes, we intend to have such a transition plan by the end of 2025. As a leader in the fitness industry, it is Basic-Fit’s aim to implement a strong climate-related policy, yet this is still in the draft stage, including considerations of how we will manage other environmental impacts. We anticipate such a policy will tackle climate change mitigation and adaptation, as well as renewable energy deployment, with approval and launch expected in the course of 2025. At the moment, Basic-Fit is thus unable to describe in detail the key climate change mitigation and adaptation actions, targets or resources allocated to the implementation of this policy. That said, we are already engaged in certain climate change mitigation efforts, such as installation of solar panels and HVAC control systems, which are intended to reduce our energy"
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 42 consumption and related emissions. These are included in the EU Taxonomy section of this report. As part of our Go for a fitter world programme, we are committed to working to reduce our emissions. However, specific related targets will be defined in 2025, when we have a better understanding of our full emissions inventory and decarbonisation trajectories. Currently, recognising that reducing energy use lowers related emissions, progress in the former serves as an indicator of the effectiveness of our efforts. Climate-related risks and opportunities assessment The core analysis consisted of identifying the material1 physical and transition risks and opportunities to the business through a climate-related scenario analysis 2.The physical and transition risks and opportunities were listed and determined as per Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. The selected scenarios were compatible with the climate- related assumptions and expectations made in our financial statements. Our efforts to reduce energy consumption, which can be considered as supporting climate mitigation, were considered mainly during the identification of transition risks and opportunities, effectively resulting at the basis of one risk and one opportunity identified (as described below). For physical risks, the analysis used climate scenario data from a low emissions pathway (SSP1-2.6)3and a high emissions pathway (SSP5-8.5), with SSP5-8.5 representing a ‘reasonable’ worst-case climate scenario by 2050. Due to limitations in data availability and reach, Basic-Fit could not extend 2024’s physical risks analysis to its value chain. We are planning to include the value chain by the fourth year of our ESRS reporting. We investigated a representative sample of clubs, allowing optimal use of our in- house data while still obtaining results with an acceptable level of granularity. To determine materiality, we analysed the relevant physical hazards under each pathway. The results are visualised and explained in the tables ‘physical risks’ and ‘transitional risks and opportunities’ below. We found water stress to be a material physical risk in all scenarios. A majority of clubs in the sample were at risk of either flooding or drought due to changing precipitation patterns. Heatwaves, heat stress, and storms are also projected to become highly material in a high-emissions pathway scenario. We identified key transition risks and opportunities via an internal relevance assessment, including workshops with internal stakeholders. We used climate scenarios from recognised sources, such as the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) and the International Energy Agency (IEA). These entail a ‘low-carbon’ net-zero policy scenario and a ‘business-as-usual’ scenario aligned with current climate policies. Each analysis scenario implements a 2030, 2040, and 2050 timeframe. We used the low -carbon scenario to map the transition risks and opportunities. The analysis also extended to Basic- Fit’s value chain as, being qualitative, data insights into the topics were more obtainable. The detailed results are explained in the ‘material transition risks and opportunities’ table below. The changes in materiality over the different timeframes are also visualised in this table. To briefly summarise our assessment, volatile energy prices were found to remain a material transition risk in 2040 and 2050. While material in 2030, the efforts to decarbonise Basic- Fit’s value chain are expected to decrease in materiality in 2040 and 2050. The analysis found one material transition opportunity in Basic-Fit’s proactive management of energy consumption, which may lead to significant savings. It is expected to remain a material opportunity across all three timeframes of the ‘low-carbon’ scenario. As a follow up to this Climate-related risks and opportunities assessment (CRRO) assessment, in 2025 we will organise workshops to identify adaptation solutions, with the aim of monitoring their effectiveness during implementation. Additionally, we plan to carry out an internal review of the CRRO on a yearly basis, to ensure results remain faithful to changing climate developments. 1 The term ‘material’ in this section is different from the use of the term in the DMA section, the CRRO followed a different methodology and the outcomes were not specifically considered during the DMA. As such, the term ‘material’ here, can be considered as pointing to the most significant physical risks and transition events. 2 A detailed account of our impacts on GHG emissions was not included in this analysis. Reporting on such impacts is covered in the 'GHG Emissions' section. 3 SSP stands for 'Shared Socioeconomic Pathways', a set of scenarios developed by the international scientific community to facilitate climate policy and impact analyses"
"1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 Likelihood Financial effect A B D C low to medium medium to high high to very high Key Baseline 2030 2050 Risk Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 43 Physical risks Risk Description Outlook Justification A Heat Stress The rise in temperature beyond a threshold level for a period of time. Material by 2050 Heat stress could lead to significant increases in expenditure associated with additional energy usage for increased cooling requirements, and additional expenditure if additional HVAC systems require installation. B Heat Waves An extended period of hot weather relative to the expected conditions of the area at that time of year, which may be accompanied by high humidity. Material by 2030 The high proportion of sites which could be impacted by heatwaves could lead to significant increases in expenditure associated with additional energy usage for increased cooling requirements, and additional expenditure if additional HVAC systems require installation. C Water Stress Water stress occurs when the demand for water exceeds the available amount during a certain period or when poor quality restricts its use. Material at baseline Stress on water availability could lead to increased expenditures if the cost of water increases. There may also be disruptions to operations if there are caps on water usage. D Storm Events of winds ranging from 75 to 88 km/h, with heavy storms reaching speeds from 89 to 102 km/h. This risk includes blizzards, dust and sandstorms. Material by 2050 There is a general projected increase in severe windstorms in the countries of Basic-Fit’s operations and the severity of the potential impacts related to storms. These impacts could include increase expenditure for general maintenance following storm events e.g., fixing roofs or clearing flood waters. There may be reduced revenue if clubs need to shut following damages from a serious storm event."
"1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 Likelihood Financial effect R1 R2 O1 Key Risk 2030 2040 2050 Opportunity low to medium medium to high high to very high Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 44 Transitional risks and opportunities Description Category Outlook Justification R1 Volatile energy prices Several factors could drive energy prices up in the short to medium term, including stricter carbon pricing regulations (such as the EU ETS and taxes) and investment slowdown in new fossil projects, leading to supply-demand impairment. Additionally, increased reliance on renewable sources like solar and wind can contribute to price volatility due to their variable nature and dependency on weather conditions. Transition Risk Material by 2030 As a value-for-money business focused on efficiency, volatile energy prices pose a significant risk directly affecting the company's cost structure and profitability. Although scenarios suggest a long-term decrease in electricity prices, fluctuations due to geopolitical factors, technology readiness, and weather variability could result in increased operational expenditure. R2 Internal global supply chain decarbonisation efforts Basic-Fit primarily relies on suppliers which manufacture in Asia for its fitness equipment. The construction and transportation of this equipment present environmental impacts. Although Basic-Fit does not operate in a high- emitting sector, substantial efforts and changes may be required if the company engages in decarbonizing its upstream indirect emissions. Material by 2030 The risk associated with Basic-Fit’s supply chain decarbonisation effort is expected to peak by 2030, potentially significantly impacting expenditure. Increased scrutiny from regulators and investors is pressuring companies to reduce value chain emissions, which may raise costs, particularly for greener transport services and club furnishing material. In the medium to long term, initial supplier investments in decarbonisation are expected to eventually reduce cost pressures. O1 Proactive management of energy consumption Basic-Fit can achieve operational savings through improved energy management and efficiency measures. By transitioning to renewable energy sources, upgrading its heating and cooling systems, and further electrifying its vehicle fleet, Basic- Fit can reduce energy costs and minimise its environmental impact. Transition Opportunity Material by 2030 Managing energy consumption presents significant cost-saving opportunities for Basic-Fit. As energy is a major expense, cost-efficient reductions directly increase the company’s profitability. Since launching its heating and cooling system retrofitting program, Basic-Fit has seen a return on investment through improved energy efficiency and reduced expenditure with each upgrade"
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 45 Energy powering our operations Controlling our use of energy and ensuring that it comes from renewable sources is key to the reduction of our direct emissions. It also helps us also to improve the cost efficiency of our club operations. As such, Basic-Fit sees energy use as a strategically important topic. In broad terms, energy consumed in Basic-Fit operations consists primarily of purchased electricity and gas for running clubs and offices, self-generated renewable energy from solar panels and fuel for company vehicles. Sources of energy consumed Country Energy from fossil sources (MWh) Energy from nuclear sources (MWh) Energy from renewable sources Total (MWh) Purchased (MWh) Self- generated (MWh) Belgium 12,892 114 33,747 106 46,859 Germany 3,316 106 77 - 3,499 Spain 17,011 10,098 966 - 28,075 France 16,105 103,385 5,560 - 125,050 Luxembourg - - 1,929 - 1,929 Netherlands 15,310 2 37,202 1,478 53,991 Total 64,634 113,706 79,480 1,584 259,404 Basic-Fit has taken some actions in 2024 to address our negative impacts on the environment. This includes the installation of solar panels, heat pumps, efficient water boilers and HVAC control systems. These actions were taken with the expected outcome of reducing our energy consumption and related emissions. You can find more information on these actions in Note 2.3 of the Financial Statements. Renewable energy production Country Own use (MWh) Reselling to grid (MWh) Total (MWh) Belgium 106 5 112 Netherlands 1,478 357 1,835 Total 1,584 363 1,947 Methodology Notes The data regarding sources of energy used1 covers Basic-Fit’s club operation and energy use in offices. It is disaggregated by country. Company leased cars and self-generated renewable energy are also taken into account in these results. Actual electricity data was available for 73% of clubs and gas data for 68% of relevant clubs. In cases where actual energy consumption data for 2024 was unavailable, we calculated the median energy usage per club per square metre for each country, using actual data sourced directly from energy suppliers and smart meters. This information was then used to estimate energy consumption for clubs without data, based on their size (in square metres). Regarding the disaggregation of energy by sources, we applied the following: 1 The electricity purchased in France, Spain, and Germany was disaggregated based on information from national suppliers or energy authorities regarding country-level electricity generation sources. Basic-Fit intends to purchase GOs for total electricity consumption in 2024, with the purchase planned for 2025 once electricity consumption data has been settled, and the actual consumption is known. As a result, the energy mix indicated in this report may be updated accordingly. 2 In the Netherlands and Belgium, all electricity purchased was classified as renewable based on purchased guarantees of origin (GOs) certifying that electricity comes from renewable sources. 3 In Luxembourg, the energy contract certifies that all electricity comes from renewable sources. 1 This means the 'Sources of energy consumed' table presents totals for the following disclosures: E1-5 37a, 37b, 37cii and 37ciii. 37ci is not applicable to Basic-Fit."
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 46 4 Gas consumption is accounted as ‘energy from fossil sources’. 5 Fuel consumption by company leased cars is accounted for as ‘energy from fossil sources’ and is based on data from fleet reports. An assumption of 5.5 L/100km was applied for fuel consumption. Energy consumption from electric company- leased cars is considered under purchased electricity. Regarding the disclosure requirement applicable to high climate impact sectors (disaggregation of sources as per paragraph 38), we consider this does not apply to Basic-Fit, as we deem our operations to be classified under NACE 2 section R code 93.13 ‘Activities of fitness facilities’, whilst the ESRS defines high climate impact sectors as those listed in NACE Sections A to H and L. Regarding renewable energy production data from our solar panels (E1-5 39), we had access to actual solar generation data for all relevant clubs. In cases where a club produced more renewable energy than it could consume, the excess energy was returned to the grid. The amount of renewable energy sold is based on actual data from the energy supplier and is reported in the table ""renewable energy production"". The difference between the self-generated renewable energy produced and sold is reported in the table 'Sources of energy consumed', under self-generated renewable energy (E1-5 37ciii). Basic-Fit did not engage in the production of non-renewable energy (E1-5 39). GHG Emissions Last year, we undertook a full calculation of our emissions inventory, updating our calculations of Scope 1 and 2 emissions and for the first time measuring our Scope 3 emissions. In summary, the emissions comprise the following: Scope 1 emissions relate to gas consumption in clubs and offices, travel using vehicles leased by Basic-Fit, and refrigerant fluids used in heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and refrigeration machines. Scope 2 emissions are related to the indirect emissions based on the electricity purchased by Basic-Fit. This is equivalent to the electricity consumption as reported under E1-5. The Scope 2 emissions reported here include the gross location-based and market-based emissions. Scope 3 emissions are calculated after assessing the applicability of the corresponding 15 categories in the GHG protocol. Applicable categories are included in the GHG emissions table below. The following Scope 3 categories were excluded from the calculation: • Upstream and Downstream Leased Assets: Leased assets, including vehicles and buildings, were accounted for under other categories, as they are integral to Basic-Fit’s operations. • Processing of Sold Products: Basic-Fit does not engage in the sale of intermediate products. • Franchises: Basic-Fit did not operate franchises in 2024. 2 Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community (NACE 2.1) https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/documents/3859598/5902521/KS-RA-07-015-EN.PDF]"
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 47 GHG emissions 1 Unit Belgium France Germany Netherlands Luxembourg Spain Total Scope 1 Emissions Total Scope 1 GHG Emission Metric tonnes CO2e 2,368 1,531 25 4,016 - 853 8,792 Scope 2 Emissions Location-based Metric tonnes CO2e 3,804 3,681 1,135 8,995 113 3,286 21,014 Market-based Metric tonnes CO2e 31 4,863 2,380 17 - 3,286 10,577 Scope 3 Emissions 1 Purchased Goods Metric tonnes CO2e 4,845 17,732 615 5,246 272 5,312 34,021 1 Purchased Services Metric tonnes CO2e 13,417 58,865 4,918 14,753 445 25,807 118,206 2 Capital Goods Metric tonnes CO2e 5,935 46,149 11,017 5,347 - 60,243 128,691 3 Energy related activities not in Scope 1 or 2 Metric tonnes CO2e 1,690 2,851 325 3,439 96 1,513 9,913 4 Upstream transport & distribution Metric tonnes CO2e 16 230 22 22 1 396 687 5 Waste Metric tonnes CO2e 1,604 4,846 177 2,619 79 1,457 10,782 6 Business Travel Metric tonnes CO2e 34 131 7 65 - 63 301 7 Employee Commuting Metric tonnes CO2e 500 1,114 60 983 - 526 3,183 9 Downstream Transportation Metric tonnes CO2e 95 66 0 129 5 13 307 12 End of life treatment of sold products Metric tonnes CO2e 16 30 1 20 1 1 69 15 Investments Metric tonnes CO2e 54 202 16 137 - 81 489 Total Scope 3 Emissions Metric tonnes CO2e 28,206 132,217 17,159 32,759 898 95,413 306,650 11 Visitors2 (Scope 3) Metric tonnes CO2e 19,244 61,626 746 33,703 1,464 22,538 139,323 Total Scope 3 Emissions (including visitors2) Metric tonnes CO2e 47,450 193,843 17,905 66,462 2,362 117,950 445,973 Total GHG Emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) (including visitors) Metric tonnes CO2e 53,622 199,055 19,064 79,473 2,475 122,090 475,779 Total GHG emissions (market-based) (including visitors) Metric tonnes CO2e 49,849 200,237 20,309 70,494 2,362 122,090 465,342 1 2024 is the base year for GHG emission calculations for Basic-Fit. Since this is the first year, we have omitted the retrospective columns from the E1-6 AR 48 standardised table. Additionally, the 'Milestones and target years' columns have not been included in the GHG emission table above. As outlined earlier in the report, we plan to define milestones and targets by the end of 2025, along with a transition plan (E1-6 AR 48) 2 Optional subcategory under the GHG Protocol"
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 48 Emissions intensity Total location-based GHG emissions per net revenue Tonnes CO2e per million euro Total location-based GHG emissions per net revenue 392 Total market-based GHG emissions per net revenue 383 Methodology notes GHG Emissions The GHG Emissions table shows gross Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions in metric tonnes of CO2eq. Scope 1&2 emissions are disaggregated by country. Scope 2 emissions also include the gross location-based and market-based emissions. 0% of Scope 1 GHG emissions come from regulated emission trading schemes. Basic-Fit did not purchase any carbon credits in 2024 and did not participate in any GHG removal or GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits. Basic-Fit has not applied any internal carbon pricing schemes. All emissions disclosed correspond to the consolidated accounting group. Scope 3 Emissions The highest emitting categories for Scope 3 were purchased goods and services, capital goods and visitors. • Category 1 - Purchased goods and services: The largest share of the purchased goods and services was attributed to the purchased services. Emissions from purchased services were calculated using supplier cost data. For each supplier, industry-specific emission factors from BaseCarbone (v23.4 & 2022), ExioBase (2022) and GES1points5 (2019) were used to determine the associated emissions. • Category 2 - Capital goods: primarily related to the construction or renovation of new leased buildings and gym equipment. The building emissions were calculated based on the square meter data of new clubs opened in 2024, combined with emission factors from EcoInvent (3.10.1). Gym equipment emissions were based on delivery data from the equipment supplier which included the actual number of items delivered and the weight of the products in 2024. This was allocated per country according to the number of new clubs in each country. Due to data availability assumptions were made to estimate the composition of gym equipment. Emission factors from IPCC (2021) were then used to estimate associated emissions. • Category 11 - Visitors: Although not required by the GHG Protocol, the guidance for the calculation of Scope 3 emissions category 11 'use of sold products' provides the option to include indirect use-phase emissions. This subcategory can be connected with the emissions generated by our Visitors’, traveling from their home to our clubs. To obtain a more complete view of our emissions inventory, Basic-Fit conducted a survey to assess visitor travel emissions. The survey collected data on transport modes and travel distances for members commuting to and from clubs. Survey results indicate an average travel distance of 8 km, which is used to estimate emissions for all visitors, including members and their friends. The results are presented as additional lines in the emissions calculation table below. We will refine this measurement in the future to obtain a clearer view of the size and significance of this type of emissions in our inventory. Scope 3 emissions from categories 4, 6, 9, 12 and 15 individually account for less than 1% of total emissions. Categories 3, 5 and 7 have minor impacts accounting for less than 5% individually and data quality efforts are underway for future reporting. Our calculation methods for these categories are in line with the GHG Protocol and include activity-based method, distance-based approach, average- activity method, average spend-based method and other hybrid methods. Scope 3 Emissions calculated using primary data Where available, Scope 3 emissions are calculated using primary data, supported with assumptions where necessary. For the significant categories the use of primary data is stated under the section 'Scope 3 emissions' above. This includes parts of category 5 from waste collection contract data detailing liters collected and collection frequency, parts of category 6 with data from an external travel report with actual costs and kilometres travelled by employees, and parts of category 7 based on HR-reported actual distances and hours worked. Additionally, primary data is used for categories 2, 4, and 9, incorporating supplier-provided details on gym equipment quantity and weight, as well as category 2 solar panel data, including the actual number and type of panels."
"OTHER DISCLOSURES Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 74 ESRS Disclosure Requirements list ESRS Disclosure Page 2-BP-1 29-30 2-BP-2 29-30 2-GOV-13 300 2-GOV-2 31-32 2-GOV-33 311 2-GOV-43 322 2-GOV-5 32, 82-101 2-SBM-1 10-14, 33-36, 63 2-SBM-2 33-34 2-SBM-3 37-41 2-IRO-1 37-41 2-IRO-2 75-78 E1-GOV-33 311 E1-14 422 E1 - SBM-3 43-46 E1-IRO-1 43-46 E1-24 433 E1-34 433 E1-43 311 E1-54 466 E1-64 488 E1-74 499 E1-84 499 E5- IRO-1 37-38 E5-15 500 E5-25 500 E5-35 500 E5-45 500 S1-SBM-2 61-62 S1-SBM-3 38-40"
Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 75 ESRS Disclosure Page S1-1 60-62 S1-2 61-62 S1-36 622 S1-46 622 S1-53 311 S1-66 622 S1-86 633 S1-9 62-63 S1-106 644 S1-146 655 S1-166 644 S1-17 65-66 S2-SBM-26 666 S2-SBM-3 38-40 S2-16 666 S2-26 666 S2-36 666 S2-46 666 S3-47 700 S4-SBM-27 700 S4-SBM-3 38-40 S4-1 66-68 S4-2 66-68 S4-3 66-68 S4-4 66-68 S4-53 311 G1-GOV-13 311 G1-IRO-1 37-38 G1-1 71-72 G1-2 73-74 G1-3 71-72 ESRS Disclosure Page G1-57 733 G1-67 744 Other disclosures EU Taxonomy 51-59 Entity-specific: Memberships (mills)6 666 Clubs6 666 Visits per member per week6 677 Financial contribution to communities (1000s)7 700 Weight of fitness equipment acquired per club (tonnes)5 500
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 76 Datapoints derived from other EU legislation Disclosure requirement Page ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d)3 300 ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of board members who are independent paragraph 21 (e)3 300 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 303 322 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii Not material ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) iv Not material ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 paragraph 144 422 ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g) Not relevant ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 343 311 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) paragraph 38 Not material ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 374 466 ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors paragraphs 40 to 43 Not material ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions paragraph 444 488 ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity paragraphs 53 to 554 499 ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits paragraph 564 499 ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks paragraph 66 Not material ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk paragraph 66 (a)ESRS E1-9Location of significant assets at material physical risk paragraph 66 (c). Not relevant ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes paragraph 67 (c). Not relevant ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related opportunities paragraph 69 Not relevant ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28 Not material ESRS E3-1 Water and marine resources paragraph 9 Not material ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy paragraph 13 Not material ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas paragraph 14 Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused paragraph 28 (c) Not material ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations paragraph 29 Not material ESRS 2- IRO 1 - E4 paragraph 16 (a) i Not material ESRS 2- IRO 1 - E4 paragraph 16 (b) Not material ESRS 2- IRO 1 - E4 paragraph 16 (c) Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies paragraph 24 (b) Not material ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies paragraph 24 (c) Not material"
"Sustainability Statement Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 77 Disclosure requirement Page ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation paragraph 24 (d) Not material ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste paragraph 37 (d) Not material ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste paragraph 39 Not material ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labour paragraph 14 (f)6 611 ESRS 2- SBM3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labour paragraph 14 (g)6 611 ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 206 611 ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 216 611 ESRS S1-1 Processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings paragraph 226 611 ESRS S1-1 Workplace accident prevention policy or management system paragraph 236 600 ESRS S1-3 Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms paragraph 32 (c)7 722 ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work-related accidents paragraph 88 (b) and (c)6 655 ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness paragraph 88 (e) Phased-in, not reported ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap paragraph 97 (a)6 644 ESRS S1-16 Excessive CEO pay ratio paragraph 97 (b)6 644 ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination paragraph 103 (a)6 655 ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD paragraph 104 (a)6 655 ESRS 2- SBM3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain paragraph 11 (b)6 666 ESRS S2-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 176 666 ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 186 666 ESRS S2-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines paragraph 196 666 ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 196 666 ESRS S2-4 Human rights issues and incidents connected to its upstream and downstream value chain paragraph 366 666 ESRS S3-1 Human rights policy commitments paragraph 16 Not material ESRS S3-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights, ILO principles or and OECD guidelines paragraph 1 Not material ESRS S3-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 36 Not material ESRS S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users paragraph 16 67-68 ESRS S4-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD guidelines paragraph 176 677 ESRS S4-4 Human rights issues and incidents paragraph 356 677 ESRS G1-1 United Nations Convention against Corruption paragraph 10 (b) 71-72 ESRS G1-1 Protection of whistleblowers paragraph 10 (d)7 722 ESRS G1-4 Fines for violation of anticorruption and anti-bribery laws paragraph 24 (a) Not material ESRS G1-4 Standards of anti- corruption and anti-bribery paragraph 24 (b)7 722"
"Basic-Fit Annual Report 2024 78 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEMS Achieving our long-term strategic objectives inherently involves taking risks. This makes risk management an essential element of Basic-Fit's culture, corporate governance, strategy, and operational and financial management. Basic-Fit carefully considers the types of risks we take and our risk appetite in achieving our objectives. Basic-Fit’s risk management approach plays an important role in achieving our strong international growth ambitions and creating long-term value. Description and governance The responsibilities for risk management extend across all levels of the organisation, embedding these duties throughout the hierarchy. This comprehensive approach fosters a culture of accountability and vigilance, enabling us to identify and mitigate risks promptly while upholding high standards of governance and compliance. The Management Board, under the supervision of the Supervisory Board, is responsible for identifying and managing the risks associated with the company’s strategy and activities. The Management Board, therefore, bears ultimate responsibility for designing and establishing Basic-Fit's risk management and internal control framework, and for creating and promoting the right business culture and values. The members of the Leadership Team, being the members of the Management Board, as well as the CCO and COO, serve as Risk Sponsors, bearing responsibility for establishing risk appetite levels that are aligned with strategic goals and associated risks’ severity, provide feedback and recommendations on significant emerging risks identified, and oversight of the Basic-Fit actions and controls in response to risks being taken. The Audit and Risk Committee supervises the effectiveness of the internal control systems and reports annually to the Supervisory Board regarding the methods used to access the effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal risk management and control systems. The Supervisory Board approves the overall strategic objectives and regularly discusses the principal risks associated with the strategy."

--- 24-VUB-Vyrocna-sprava-ENG ---
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 351 ESG risk governance process The ‘ESG Risk Governance Guidelines’ outline the ESG risk governance process of the Group (also on climate change adaptation issues), which is divided into 5 phases: – Identification: Identification and description of ESG risk factors, also in terms of transmission channels, with particular reference to climate and environmental risks (for example, ESG risk scenarios in Stress Testing processes); – Evaluation and measurement: Determination of exposure to ESG risks (e.g. the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process); – Monitoring and control: Outpost in the continuous evolution of exposure to ESG risks (regular reporting of ESG risks to ESG Committee, monitoring of established ESG KPIs in the Risk Appetite Framework); – Mitigation: Containment of ESG risks through appropriate actions and strategies, also preventive, aimed at reducing the severity of the impact of such risks (for example, defining remedial actions in case of exceeding ESG limits in the RAF, definition of Credit Strategies for all relevant sectors); – Communication: Preparation of suitable information flows aimed at ensuring adequate transparency and knowledge of exposure to ESG risks (for example, ESG risk reporting and ESG risk disclosures, including indicators that factor in physical climate risks). In particular, with reference to the above-mentioned evaluation and measurement phase, the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process has been implemented. It aims to identify and assess ex ante the potential ESG and reputational risks (including climate and environmental risks) related to credit proposals, supplier/third-party selection connected to commercial agreements, equity investments, and extraordinary transactions. The ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process is therefore intended to represent the potential ESG and reputational risk pro昀椀les related to a speci昀椀c operation/counterparty or initiative, enabling an informed assumption of risk for the interested decision-making processes. A 昀椀rst level of clearing, carried out by the line functions, is aimed at analysing the main ESG and reputational risk factors and is performed by the structure that manages the relationship with the counterparty. In this context, credit proposals are subject to 昀椀rst-level clearing with differentiated methods based on sectoral assessments and the characteristics of the individual counterparty and operation. A second level of clearing, activated based on the results of the 昀椀rst level, is aimed at deepening and evaluating the critical issues that may have emerged from the 昀椀rst level and involves an expert analysis of these risk pro昀椀les. Generally, the outcome of the evaluation consists of an advisory opinion that includes an assessment of the main critical issues identi昀椀ed, the related mitigants, and the level of risk assigned based on proprietary metrics. In the presence of risk classes that are not consistent with the Group's risk propensity, speci昀椀c escalation mechanisms are activated. The implementation of the Equator Principles (EP) is situated within the broader framework of ESG risk assessment and management. These principles establish a framework for environmental and social risk management in the 昀椀nancing of large projects, thus strengthening the commitment to managing the impacts associated with customer business activities. The EPs are international guidelines that the Intesa Sanpaolo Group adheres to on a voluntary basis since 2007, using the latest updated version (EP IV) applicable to the 昀椀nancing of infrastructure and industrial projects that can have negative effects on people and the environment (such as energy plants, petrochemical plants, mines, infrastructure in the 昀椀eld of transport and telecommunications). These principles are based on the criteria of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank and concern, regarding to environmental issues: pollution prevention and the promotion of energy ef昀椀ciency; the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable management of natural resources. The EP apply, regardless of the industrial sector in which the customer operates, when 昀椀nancing product is used to support the development of new projects and meet speci昀椀c criteria: The project evaluation process begins with the assignment of a risk category on three levels by the Group, which involves the integrated consideration of various factors. Proportionally to the assigned risk level, the requirements to be met are de昀椀ned in terms of both documentations to be produced, and activities to be carried out by the customer. In this context, the Group incorporates environmental and social clauses into the 昀椀nancing documentation and veri昀椀es the correct implementation of the agreed clauses. Management of sustainability issues in sensitive sectors At the portfolio level and with reference to decarbonization objectives, the ESG Risk Management Guidelines also detail the ESG risk management model based on the materiality assessment of ESG risk factors with respect to the different risk families (credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, and reputational risk) and their integration into the various risk management areas. The materiality analysis (Climate/ESG Materiality Assessment) is an evaluation process that assesses the potential impacts of ESG and climate risks on the Group. This analysis is based on an organic and structured approach to risk assessment, which involves a granular breakdown of risk drivers and the integration of forward-looking elements. The aggregated analysis of the materiality of ESG risk factors at"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 352 the sector level facilitates the establishment of an enhanced risk management framework for the sectors most exposed to ESG risks. This process includes de昀椀ning sector-speci昀椀c strategies and implementing speci昀椀c measures within the Risk Appetite Framework (i.e., the RAF). These measures may consist of general criteria for limiting and excluding loans or a detailed criteria applicable to individual sensitive sectors through the application of speci昀椀c sectoral rules. GHG emissions reduction targets The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, aware of the challenge posed by climate change, has committed to contributing to the achievement of global climate goals, by pursuing the Net-Zero goal by 2050 in terms of both own emissions and loans and investments portfolios, also by setting intermediate targets by 2030. The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes and fully commits to ful昀椀lment of the targets at the Group level. Therefore, it has not set GHG emissions reduction targets or adopted transition plan at its own consolidation level. Nevertheless, the VUB Group is contributing to parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group's plan for the reduction of its ‘own’ emissions, adopted in 2022, called the ‘Own Emissions Plan’, which is compliant with Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) protocol (validation obtained in January 2025). The levers to achieve the declared decarbonization objectives are identi昀椀ed as: 1. Achievement of 100% of electricity from renewable sources purchased for its operations until 2030; 2. Reducing overall energy consumption, and especially dependence on fossil fuels for the Group's buildings; 3. Electrification of the company car fleet, both through hybrid and electric vehicles, with the consequent installation of charging stations. The Own Emissions Plan progress is periodically shared during the meetings of the ESG Committee. In this context, as of 31. December 2024, the ISP Group has already reduced emissions by 35% compared to the 2019 baseline. This reduction corresponds to 34,256 thousand tons of CO2e, and the ISP Group con昀椀rms it is on track to meet the target set for 2030. Other targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in own operations Portfolio level To achieve the objectives for reducing emissions and to accompany customers on their path towards decarbonization intermediary 2030 emission reduction targets were set on the ISP Group level, which includes the VUB Group. These targets focus on sectors identi昀椀ed based on a materiality criterion among those with the highest emission intensity as per NZBA. The VUB Group has not set targets on its own consolidated level. To support this objective, the VUB Group has identi昀椀ed several levers: – Dedicated products and incentives, including: o Access to a credit ceiling dedicated to the circular economy, aimed at customers who adopt a circular business model with innovative methods, granting them supportive conditions for access to credit. The ceiling does not follow the technical screening criteria of the European Taxonomy, having been developed before its entry into force, in close partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation; o Green financings aimed at financing projects with a significant environmental impact; o Sustainability-linked financing that provides a discount/bonus mechanism as an incentive for customers who meet predefined sustainability targets; o Advisory services to support customer decarbonization and accompany them in the utilization of proper ESG financial tools linked to their strategies and transition plans. To ensure constant progress, internal KPIs have been set in both Retail and Corporate banking Divisions and their development is being monitored regularly by ESG Committee. Actions and resources related to climate change To support its climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, the VUB Group has designed several action types: – Improvement of physical infrastructure – energy efficiency, renewable energy, and GHG avoidance in own buildings operation; – Improvement of data infrastructure; – Awareness raising and marketing support for dedicated financial products and incentives; – VUB continues in its own ‘ATLAS’ series of conferences, discussions, and panel talks focused on good practices,"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 353 innovation, and knowledge sharing launched in 2022; – Partnerships with professional organizations for knowledge sharing. This involves both knowledge sharing for improvement of Group's own infrastructure, practices and strategies, as well as improvement of the sustainability of the overall economy, primarily in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. The Group is active in the following areas where awareness raising, education, best practice and knowledge exchange projects and events enable mitigation and/or adaptation to climate change: – Sustainable buildings and their energy efficiency, sustainable construction and renovation; e.g. Buildings For Future, Slovak green building council; – Sustainable urban planning, climate change adaptation of cities, and green infrastructure; e.g. Institute for Passive Houses, International Climate Adaptation Institute, Manifest2020; – Circular economy, waste reduction, and sustainable procurement; e.g. Circular Slovakia, Sustainable e-shop project with VISA and Heureka; – Sustainable and biodiversity friendly agriculture and food production; e.g. Living Farm project of Environmentalist association BROZ; – Environmental education and support for innovation for children and young people, e.g. For Better Future of Earth, Lifbee Academy; – Support for relevant programs and projects of VUB Foundation. This includes 昀椀nancial support, provision of creative agency services, and covering marketing costs for projects and programs Envirogrants, and ATLAS Award to raise public awareness, motivate and foster the shift towards sustainability. Climate change actions and resources at the own operation In line with its commitment to addressing climate change, the Bank has implemented and planned a series of key actions aimed at mitigating its environmental impact and achieving medium- and long-term sustainability goals: 1. Energy Ef昀椀ciency Initiatives: o Installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of the VUB headquarters started in 2024, an additional installation is currently underway. o The Bank is progressively replacing obsolete air conditioning and electrical systems at selected sites, specifically LED re-lamping (6 premises), refurbishment of HVAC systems (20 locations), complete refurbishment of electricity consuming systems (5 branches), replacement of boiler (1 branch), refurbishment of natural gas-based heating (7 locations), replacement of windows and building envelope insulation (2 branches). ▪ A comprehensive energy efficiency study was conducted for all the Bank’s premises; ▪ A study on the deployment of LED lighting technology was conducted, with gradual implementation planned. 2. Transition to Renewable Energy: o The Bank finished a procurement process and from the next contractual cycle starting in 2025 the Group will purchase 100% renewable electric energy (Guarantees of origin) via bundled contract for own premises. 3. Fleet and Mobility Enhancements: o The company car fleet is undergoing a gradual transition to hybrid and fully electric vehicles. o Charging stations for electric vehicles are being installed at VUB premises. 4. Infrastructure Improvements: o Ongoing studies are assessing the feasibility of green roofs and green walls, renewable energy, use of sustainable cooling gases. 5. Paper and Material Usage Optimization: o The Bank has long sought and implemented strategies to reduce paper and material consumption. From 2024 onwards, all office paper is being procured exclusively from eco-friendly, sustainable sources. For main material categories there are defined criteria to minimize its negative impact. These actions are expected to contribute signi昀椀cantly to the reduction of the Group’s negative impacts in medium- term and serve as building blocks for long-term sustainability extending to 2050 Medium-term objectives include completing infrastructure upgrades and expanding the deployment of sustainable technologies. The Bank leverages its annual capital budget cycle to ensure funding for these measures while strategically allocating"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 354 resources to areas of the highest impact. Successful implementation is also contingent on access to appropriate technologies, employee expertise, and supportive regulatory frameworks. Climate change actions and resources at the portfolio level In line with the regulatory evolution on sustainability, the Group adopts a medium-long term strategy and a cross- cutting and holistic approach to ESG issues, which is based on: – The definition of a Group ESG strategy; – The integration of ESG factors into the general Risk Management framework, particularly within the Risk Appetite Framework, where a specific section is dedicated to ESG risks and climate change; – The integration of ESG factors in credit processes and in the definition of credit strategies; – A careful evaluation of ESG factors in the development of policies, products and services; – The spread of ESG risk culture throughout the corporate organization. With reference to climate change mitigation, the integration of ESG risks into the Risk Management framework takes place through various actions. In particular, the RAF integrates and translates into speci昀椀c measures what is de昀椀ned in terms of strategic guidelines, ESG/Climate Materiality Assessment and ESG Sectoral Colour Coding, identifying year by year limits, Key Risk Indicators, and speci昀椀c actions aimed at containing ESG risks, with particular reference to the sectors most exposed to such risks. – Specific limits with reference to exposure to the Coal Mining and Oil & Gas sectors, particularly for Coal mining the limit is revised annually in line with the objective of phasing out financing by 2025; – The monitoring of new disbursements broken down by energy performance classes (EPC) with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and, consequently, reducing the transition risk related to mortgage loans; – Specific Risk appetite limits on share of collateral with EPC classes F and G and with Very high physical risk in the Retail Mortgage portfolio, with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and consequently, reducing the risk of transition and physical risk related to mortgage loans. In particular, with reference to the lower energy performance classes (APE certifications) and areas with very high physical risk; – Transactions with potentially high ESG risks undergo ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, utilizing the ESG profile and score of the counterparty and considerations on the impacts that physical and transition risk drivers can have. Within the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, where the ESG pro昀椀le and score of the counterparty are used, which also includes considerations on the impacts that physical climate risk drivers might have. The actions reported are implemented as an essential part of the Group's strategy for managing climate risks and do not require speci昀椀c dedicated resources exclusively for these actions, as they are included in the general context of the Group's ESG strategy. An exact quanti昀椀cation of the reduction of emissions associated with each action at portfolio level is not feasible, due to the complex connection between the actions taken and the trend of emissions in the reference sectors of the counterparties. In 2024, the VUB Group continued its commitment to retail customers, both individual and small business, through the provision of mortgages and loans with environmental purposes. Via Green mortgages, the VUB Bank incentivizes clients with a preferential interest rate for 昀椀nancing a purchase of a property with high energy performance class (‘A’). Clients with other properties are encouraged to assess their energy ef昀椀ciency and when they provide a valid EPC, they receive a reduction of loan granting fee. In addition to offering a new mortgage the VUB Group has implemented a series of activities aimed at collecting the information on the energy performance of the properties that guarantee existing mortgages, which further raises awareness among clients and allow the Bank to precisely manage the associated transition risk. Green loan is a 昀椀nancial solution with incentive for clients who want to improve energy performance through, for example, the replacement of windows and high-yield boilers, insulation and the installation of solar and photovoltaic panels. To support sustainable transition of SME and Corporate clients, the VUB Bank introduced the TERRA product line, offering loans with preferential interest rates to support sustainability in areas of environmental, social and governance sustainability. Within the TERRA Enviro two products are offered: – GREEN S-LOAN+: Dedicated loan to support all types of corporate investments and projects capable of generating a positive environmental impact on processes, infrastructures, technologies, services and products in line with the LMA categorization (e.g., Renewable energies, Energy efficiency, Pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of natural resources, Clean transportation, Sustainable water and"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 355 wastewater management, Climate change adaptation, Eco-efficient and/or circular economy, Green buildings or Projects aimed at activities with zero CO2 emissions, such as electricity production using solar, wind, oceanic, hydroelectric technology). – ENVIRO LOAN: Dedicated loan supporting circular economy projects, including resource efficiency, sustainable sourcing, recyclability, and green innovation. For these loans, individual ESG KPIs can be set up with the client. Below is a summary of the total amount disbursed during the 2024 昀椀nancial year in the 昀椀eld environmental sustainability by business line: Business line Disbursed amount (in million EUR) Retail 599.2 Corporate 187.4 Amount disbursed in Retail Business line relates predominantly to Mortgage loan with EPC A and B. The disbursed data of the 昀椀nancings are calculated using management balances. The VUB Group supports sustainable choices of clients also in the area of investments. Please refer to the standard ESRS S4 – Consumers and end-users, section Sustainability-conscious investments by the VUB Group. Actions and resources related to supply chain To manage the impacts from value chain each vendor undergoes a quali昀椀cation process through the Supplier Portal. The evaluation of registered suppliers considers not only their economic-昀椀nancial and technical-organizational characteristics but also aspects related to business ethics, respect for human rights, workers' rights, and the environment. This evaluation is based on speci昀椀c questionnaires and/or the possession of certain certi昀椀cations (including ISO 50001 and 14001, and the adoption of an energy management system compliant with ISO 50001 standards). In 2024, completing the ESG questionnaire became mandatory as a prerequisite for participating in tenders or direct negotiations through the Supplier Portal and the ESG evaluation was incorporated into the technical assessment of the supplier’s offer in the tender evaluation."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 348 chain namely 昀椀nancing operations to Non-昀椀nancial corporations that did not develop transition plan nor committed to adequate GHG emission goals or loans collateralized by immovable property with low energy ef昀椀ciency. The assessment of exposure to transition events has been concluded as follows: – Credit risk related to counterparties failing to define a transition plan is currently assessed as immaterial. The likelihood of such an event is considered low; – Market risk arising from counterparties' failure to define a transition plan is also assessed as immaterial. This risk is not highly relevant within the business model of the VUB; – Liquidity risk associated with assets not aligned with sustainability objectives has been assessed as immaterial. The assessment, including the HQLA relevance analysis, indicates that such assets are unlikely to be classified as High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), meaning that their impact on overall liquidity is lower. The assessment process is expected to evolve over time to incorporate additional forward-looking methodologies for evaluating transition risks and opportunities, especially further scenario-based analysis such as NGFS or IEA (International Energy Agency) climate scenarios. The only material risk identi昀椀ed in the double materiality assessment is reputational risk arising from both transition and physical climate risks: 1. Transition risk: Failure to meet targets defined in the support of climate change mitigation (e.g., failure to meet targets under the Net Zero Banking Alliance); 2. Physical risk: Lack of focus on objectives supporting climate change adaptation, which could lead to reputational impacts related to business interruptions. This risk is classi昀椀ed as both a transition risk and a physical risk, as it is driven by evolving stakeholder expectations regarding mitigation commitments as well as the company’s response to physical climate-related challenges. A formal resilience analysis based on climate scenarios has not been conducted. However, selected stress tests were performed to assess the potential impact of ESG-related risks on credit risk. These tests are part of the 2024 ICAAP/ILAAP Adverse scenario, and focused on estimating potential effects on risk-weighted assets (RWA) and pro昀椀t/loss (P&L). The stress test methodology includes: – Corporate portfolio: Economic sectors were classified by ESG sensitivity based on an internal methodology. The probability of default (PD) was adjusted according to sector classification; – Retail mortgages: Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) were used as an indicator of transition risk, with adjustments applied to loss given default (LGD); – Flood event scenario: Potential effects of flooding were modelled for the retail portfolio, considering increased PD for affected borrowers and higher LGD for unsecured loans. The approach is based on expert judgment, and does not use climate scenario models such as NGFS or IEA. – The methodology is under development, and may be expanded in the future to incorporate additional factors. – The stress test analysis shows that the VUB Group is able to maintain a sound capital adequacy even under an adverse scenario. VUB Group recognizes the value of a comprehensive resilience analysis and intends to further develop this approach in the future, especially in relation to more detailed climate scenarios. Opportunities in relation to the transition to a low-carbon economy were identi昀椀ed, including the potential for product innovation, competitive advantage through sustainable practices, improved ef昀椀ciency through energy savings and waste reduction and improvement of brand reputation resulting from the achievement of objectives in support of climate change mitigation. Connection to climate-related assumptions in 昀椀nancial statement The company has utilized climate scenarios primarily for the identi昀椀cation and prediction of climate-related risks. Most assessed risks were determined to be immaterial, and as a result, no direct integration of climate scenario outcomes into 昀椀nancial statement assumptions has been made at this stage. However, reputational risk related to climate targets and commitments were assessed as material, but they have not yet been quanti昀椀ed or directly linked to 昀椀nancial statement assumptions. To ensure proactive risk management, the company has established limits and early warning indicators to monitor potential future developments and reassess materiality if necessary."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 349 Integration of climate-related performance in incentive schemes The VUB Group, in line with ISP Group approach, considers it essential to address and monitor climate-related issues and therefore implemented intermediary objectives in the incentive system. The ESG KPI was assigned in the 2024 target sheets to the CEO and approximately 150 managers of the VUB Group in Slovakia and the Czech Republic The characteristics of the KPI are in line with the growing attention on these issues by the Group's Customers, Shareholders, Regulators and other Stakeholders. With speci昀椀c reference to the variable remuneration of the Managing Director and CEO, climate aspects are taken into account both in the Annual Incentive System (15% weight) and in the long-term incentive plan. Speci昀椀cally, the KPIs are linked to the 昀椀nancing of clients in transition to sustainability: 1. % of new production of Sustainable Loans to Retail Customers; 2. % of new production of Corporate & SME Sustainable Loans. Finally, with reference to variable remuneration to Management – 3 bene昀椀ciaries (including the CEO, the remaining Top Management Risk Takers of the Group and the other Group Risk Takers), climate aspects are taken into account through Performance Share Plans (PSP) and recognized against the achievement of performance objectives within the composite ESG KPI. For further information please refer to standard ESRS2 – General disclosure, section Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes. Strategy for combating climate change Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Climate change represents one of the most signi昀椀cant global challenges of our time, with far-reaching impacts on the natural environment, human health, and economic prosperity. Effectively combating this existential threat requires a well-crafted, multidimensional strategy that encompasses global collaboration, technological innovation, policy reform, and community engagement. The VUB Group, recognizing the crucial role that 昀椀nancial institutions can play in this area, has developed and adopted a series of policies governing its business operations, resource procurement, 昀椀nancing and investments to address climate change mitigation, adaptation, energy ef昀椀ciency, renewable energy deployment, and transition to climate neutrality of the economy. These policies incorporate the interests of stakeholders, collected through targeted surveys and dialogues, while also considering feedback from rating agencies and 昀椀nancial regulators. In 2020, the VUB Bank, as a pioneer in the Group in Slovakia, published the Green Manifest where it declared its commitment to sustainability and environmental protection, as an integral part of its business DNA. With regards to climate change, Green Manifest declares supporting the transition to carbon neutral economy. The Bank is committed to supporting its clients by providing sustainable banking products and services while continuously enhancing internal standards and processes. It prioritizes energy ef昀椀ciency, emphasizes the use of renewable energy sources, and collaborates with suppliers who share its commitment to sustainability and engages employees by fostering a culture of environmental responsibility. Furthermore, the Bank supports the non-pro昀椀t sector through partnerships that promote environmental education, and climate change awareness in Slovakia. In this effort, VUB Bank is accompanied by its subsidiaries and strongly supported by the parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group. The cornerstone of VUB Group's environmental policy is its Code of Ethics, a binding document outlining standards and principles for managing and controlling bodies, for employees and contracted third parties in line with the commitments made by the ISP Group in relation to international initiatives: UN Global Compact, the contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, the Women's Empowerment Principles, the Net Zero Alliances as well as the PRB Principles for Responsible Banking, PRI Principles for Responsible Investment and PSI Principles for Sustainable Insurance Programs under the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). It promotes ef昀椀cient and conscious resource use, sustainable decision-making, and 昀椀ght against climate change. The Code also provides guidelines for management of indirect environmental impacts in value chain among others by promoting services and products to foster the development of a low-emission economy, also through the dissemination of renewable energy and energy ef昀椀ciency improvement. It also speci昀椀es the principles of the process of managing purchases of goods and services: – Transparency and fairness in the selection and qualification of suppliers throughout the entire supply chain, also evaluating local specificities, respect for the environment, human rights, working conditions, business ethics; – The adoption of measures and tools aimed at minimizing negative impacts and promoting awareness of ESG risks and opportunities."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 350 The document is publicly available on the Bank's website for all stakeholders (Code of ethics | VUB Bank). The implementation of the Code of Ethics has resulted in supplementary policies and procedures aimed at speci昀椀c areas of operations. For resource procurement, it is the Green Banking Procurement Rules that ensure responsible purchasing in areas such as energy, of昀椀ce materials, and sustainable renovations via identi昀椀cation of the best design solutions, products, or services from an environmental perspective throughout its life cycle, considering market availability. Key impacts considered include energy consumption and the resulting carbon dioxide emissions, waste generation, and the consumption of materials such as paper, toner, stationery, and of昀椀ce machines. The choice of supplier takes into account not only its specialization in the required product 昀椀eld and its economic and 昀椀nancial stability but also its reputational and sustainability pro昀椀le across all ESG areas. This includes assessing potential external risks, such as ongoing judicial and insolvency proceedings. In its operations, the Group adheres to the Environmental and Energy Policy of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. This policy aims to minimize environmental impacts, manage ESG risks, and ensure compliance with regulations. It emphasizes ef昀椀cient resource and energy use, careful supplier selection based on ethical, social, and environmental criteria, and the prevention of environmental harm. The Guidelines for the Governance of environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks address climate change within the broader context of environmental risks across operations, the value chain, and the 昀椀nanced portfolio. These guidelines aim to mitigate material risks associated with climate change and support the transition to a low- carbon economy. The guidelines establish a framework for managing sustainability risks, stating key principles, specifying sectors sensitive to ESG or reputational risks, de昀椀ning responsibilities, and monitoring mechanisms. The core focus is placed on limiting exposure to high-carbon industries, integrating ESG risk factors into credit policies, and promoting sustainable 昀椀nancing solutions. The effectiveness of the policy is monitored through internal limits, ESG Committee oversight, and risk appetite thresholds. The guidelines apply across the entire Group, including all banking activities, risk management processes, and 昀椀nancing operations. They cover both corporate and retail portfolios, ensuring ESG factors are assessed in client screenings and sectoral risk evaluations. Exclusions apply primarily to the coal mining and oil and gas sectors, where stricter rules aim at phasing out exposure for coil mining. The policy aligns with international sustainability frameworks, including the UN 2030 Agenda, the European Commission’s Action Plan for Sustainable Growth, the EBA Guidelines, and ECB expectations. The policy takes into account the interests of key stakeholders, including regulators, investors, and clients, by balancing 昀椀nancial stability with sustainability goals. In lending activities, sustainability-linked 昀椀nancing and advisory services are provided to help clients transition to greener business models. The policy is integrated into internal governance frameworks and embedded in the Group’s risk appetite and credit policies, which de昀椀ne VUB Group’s lending portfolio strategy for each relevant sector based on ESG aspects, among others. Relevant guidelines are communicated to stakeholders through corporate reports, regulatory disclosures, and direct engagement with clients and investors. In order to steer the development of 昀椀nanced portfolio, the Group equipped itself with Rules for the classi昀椀cation of sustainable credit products and operations. This regulation applies to Group companies and outlines various categories of environmentally sustainable activities, with internal criteria different from the European Taxonomy, in favour of both climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation. The classi昀椀cation categories of credit products and sustainable credit operations have been de昀椀ned in line with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Loan Market Association (LMA) on Green Loan, Social Loan and Sustainability-linked Loan Principles. These principles provide a shared framework at a global level, promoting standardization and transparency of practices in the sustainable 昀椀nancial sector. The Group publicly declares its environmental commitments across 昀椀nancial products, suppliers, and the overall environmental impact. The above-mentioned internal policies are accessible to respective internal stakeholders via the Group’s intranet. The main goal of the Environmental Social and Governance Committee (‘ESG Committee’), as a permanent consultative and decision-making committee of VUB Bank, is to coordinate and steer ESG related matters and to ensure the correct implementation of the ESG strategy, policies and respective ISP Group guidelines within the VUB Group. It also regularly evaluates policy effectiveness, reviews sustainability KPIs, and oversees risk mitigation measures. It is headed by the Deputy CEO who acts as ESG Manager - the top management level responsible for the implementation of the policies in sustainability area."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 351 ESG risk governance process The ‘ESG Risk Governance Guidelines’ outline the ESG risk governance process of the Group (also on climate change adaptation issues), which is divided into 5 phases: – Identification: Identification and description of ESG risk factors, also in terms of transmission channels, with particular reference to climate and environmental risks (for example, ESG risk scenarios in Stress Testing processes); – Evaluation and measurement: Determination of exposure to ESG risks (e.g. the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process); – Monitoring and control: Outpost in the continuous evolution of exposure to ESG risks (regular reporting of ESG risks to ESG Committee, monitoring of established ESG KPIs in the Risk Appetite Framework); – Mitigation: Containment of ESG risks through appropriate actions and strategies, also preventive, aimed at reducing the severity of the impact of such risks (for example, defining remedial actions in case of exceeding ESG limits in the RAF, definition of Credit Strategies for all relevant sectors); – Communication: Preparation of suitable information flows aimed at ensuring adequate transparency and knowledge of exposure to ESG risks (for example, ESG risk reporting and ESG risk disclosures, including indicators that factor in physical climate risks). In particular, with reference to the above-mentioned evaluation and measurement phase, the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process has been implemented. It aims to identify and assess ex ante the potential ESG and reputational risks (including climate and environmental risks) related to credit proposals, supplier/third-party selection connected to commercial agreements, equity investments, and extraordinary transactions. The ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process is therefore intended to represent the potential ESG and reputational risk pro昀椀les related to a speci昀椀c operation/counterparty or initiative, enabling an informed assumption of risk for the interested decision-making processes. A 昀椀rst level of clearing, carried out by the line functions, is aimed at analysing the main ESG and reputational risk factors and is performed by the structure that manages the relationship with the counterparty. In this context, credit proposals are subject to 昀椀rst-level clearing with differentiated methods based on sectoral assessments and the characteristics of the individual counterparty and operation. A second level of clearing, activated based on the results of the 昀椀rst level, is aimed at deepening and evaluating the critical issues that may have emerged from the 昀椀rst level and involves an expert analysis of these risk pro昀椀les. Generally, the outcome of the evaluation consists of an advisory opinion that includes an assessment of the main critical issues identi昀椀ed, the related mitigants, and the level of risk assigned based on proprietary metrics. In the presence of risk classes that are not consistent with the Group's risk propensity, speci昀椀c escalation mechanisms are activated. The implementation of the Equator Principles (EP) is situated within the broader framework of ESG risk assessment and management. These principles establish a framework for environmental and social risk management in the 昀椀nancing of large projects, thus strengthening the commitment to managing the impacts associated with customer business activities. The EPs are international guidelines that the Intesa Sanpaolo Group adheres to on a voluntary basis since 2007, using the latest updated version (EP IV) applicable to the 昀椀nancing of infrastructure and industrial projects that can have negative effects on people and the environment (such as energy plants, petrochemical plants, mines, infrastructure in the 昀椀eld of transport and telecommunications). These principles are based on the criteria of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank and concern, regarding to environmental issues: pollution prevention and the promotion of energy ef昀椀ciency; the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable management of natural resources. The EP apply, regardless of the industrial sector in which the customer operates, when 昀椀nancing product is used to support the development of new projects and meet speci昀椀c criteria: The project evaluation process begins with the assignment of a risk category on three levels by the Group, which involves the integrated consideration of various factors. Proportionally to the assigned risk level, the requirements to be met are de昀椀ned in terms of both documentations to be produced, and activities to be carried out by the customer. In this context, the Group incorporates environmental and social clauses into the 昀椀nancing documentation and veri昀椀es the correct implementation of the agreed clauses. Management of sustainability issues in sensitive sectors At the portfolio level and with reference to decarbonization objectives, the ESG Risk Management Guidelines also detail the ESG risk management model based on the materiality assessment of ESG risk factors with respect to the different risk families (credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, and reputational risk) and their integration into the various risk management areas. The materiality analysis (Climate/ESG Materiality Assessment) is an evaluation process that assesses the potential impacts of ESG and climate risks on the Group. This analysis is based on an organic and structured approach to risk assessment, which involves a granular breakdown of risk drivers and the integration of forward-looking elements. The aggregated analysis of the materiality of ESG risk factors at"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 352 the sector level facilitates the establishment of an enhanced risk management framework for the sectors most exposed to ESG risks. This process includes de昀椀ning sector-speci昀椀c strategies and implementing speci昀椀c measures within the Risk Appetite Framework (i.e., the RAF). These measures may consist of general criteria for limiting and excluding loans or a detailed criteria applicable to individual sensitive sectors through the application of speci昀椀c sectoral rules. GHG emissions reduction targets The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, aware of the challenge posed by climate change, has committed to contributing to the achievement of global climate goals, by pursuing the Net-Zero goal by 2050 in terms of both own emissions and loans and investments portfolios, also by setting intermediate targets by 2030. The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes and fully commits to ful昀椀lment of the targets at the Group level. Therefore, it has not set GHG emissions reduction targets or adopted transition plan at its own consolidation level. Nevertheless, the VUB Group is contributing to parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group's plan for the reduction of its ‘own’ emissions, adopted in 2022, called the ‘Own Emissions Plan’, which is compliant with Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) protocol (validation obtained in January 2025). The levers to achieve the declared decarbonization objectives are identi昀椀ed as: 1. Achievement of 100% of electricity from renewable sources purchased for its operations until 2030; 2. Reducing overall energy consumption, and especially dependence on fossil fuels for the Group's buildings; 3. Electrification of the company car fleet, both through hybrid and electric vehicles, with the consequent installation of charging stations. The Own Emissions Plan progress is periodically shared during the meetings of the ESG Committee. In this context, as of 31. December 2024, the ISP Group has already reduced emissions by 35% compared to the 2019 baseline. This reduction corresponds to 34,256 thousand tons of CO2e, and the ISP Group con昀椀rms it is on track to meet the target set for 2030. Other targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in own operations Portfolio level To achieve the objectives for reducing emissions and to accompany customers on their path towards decarbonization intermediary 2030 emission reduction targets were set on the ISP Group level, which includes the VUB Group. These targets focus on sectors identi昀椀ed based on a materiality criterion among those with the highest emission intensity as per NZBA. The VUB Group has not set targets on its own consolidated level. To support this objective, the VUB Group has identi昀椀ed several levers: – Dedicated products and incentives, including: o Access to a credit ceiling dedicated to the circular economy, aimed at customers who adopt a circular business model with innovative methods, granting them supportive conditions for access to credit. The ceiling does not follow the technical screening criteria of the European Taxonomy, having been developed before its entry into force, in close partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation; o Green financings aimed at financing projects with a significant environmental impact; o Sustainability-linked financing that provides a discount/bonus mechanism as an incentive for customers who meet predefined sustainability targets; o Advisory services to support customer decarbonization and accompany them in the utilization of proper ESG financial tools linked to their strategies and transition plans. To ensure constant progress, internal KPIs have been set in both Retail and Corporate banking Divisions and their development is being monitored regularly by ESG Committee. Actions and resources related to climate change To support its climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, the VUB Group has designed several action types: – Improvement of physical infrastructure – energy efficiency, renewable energy, and GHG avoidance in own buildings operation; – Improvement of data infrastructure; – Awareness raising and marketing support for dedicated financial products and incentives; – VUB continues in its own ‘ATLAS’ series of conferences, discussions, and panel talks focused on good practices,"
"345 ESRS E1 – Climate Change Introduction Climate change is increasingly impacting our ecosystems, with disruptive effects on the social well-being, economic development, and 昀椀nancial stability of current and future generations. Transforming the economies toward sustainability requires not only reducing greenhouse gas emissions to prevent devastating global temperature increase and ecosystems collapse but also rapidly enhancing community resilience and also adapting the global consumption and production patterns. In this, the crucial role of 昀椀nancial institutions as enablers and catalysts of economy change, requires deep understanding the commercial risks and opportunities, and knowing how to act on them. VUB Group, with support of the parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group, is aware of both the negative and positive aspects in this area, and internalized this commitment to support the green transition via supporting businesses and the circular economy as well as reducing its own emissions. The VUB Group understands transition to sustainability as an innovation-driven process that promotes the transition to a system of regenerative production and consumption that has economic, social and environmental sustainability as its goal. Since 2022, the VUB Group brings on the Slovak market 昀椀nancial products that enable companies, public sector entities, and individuals in these transition initiatives. Materiality assessment process on impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change As described in the chapter ESRS2 – General information, Double materiality analysis, the VUB Group has conducted the double materiality analysis, i.e. an analysis of the main relevant sustainability issues, according to a dual perspective: – The impact materiality, which with an inside-out perspective takes into account the impacts of the VUB Group connected to the VUB Group's own operations and the relevant value chain upstream and downstream for the VUB Group, both positive and negative, actual or potential; – Financial materiality, which adopts an outside-in perspective considering sustainability issues that generate: o Risks that affect or may affect the development of the VUB Group, its financial and asset situation, the economic result, the financial flows, access to financing or the cost of capital in the short, medium or long term; o Opportunities that have, or that can be predicted to have, a significant financial impact on the VUB Group in the short, medium or long term. The impacts, risks and opportunities in the ESRS E1 – Climate change are identi昀椀ed by taking into account the speci昀椀cities of the VUB Group. In particular, the mapping of such impacts, risks and opportunities was carried out on the basis of the context in which the VUB Group de昀椀nes and implements its activities and business relationships in the 昀椀eld of climate change. This includes internal policies and initiatives supporting the climate neutrality and energy ef昀椀ciency, as well as safeguards put in place to minimize the negative climate-related impacts within its own operations and across the upstream and downstream value chain. Additionally, the assessment considered the risks associated with climate change that the VUB Group may be exposed to. The mapping of impacts also re昀氀ects the views of external stakeholders (e.g. expert organizations in the community and environment). For the purpose of impact materiality, the assessment of the identi昀椀ed impacts was conducted through interviews with the internal structures and external stakeholders, as well as through a detailed qualitative-quantitative analysis of the main relevant indicators related to climate change attributed to the VUB Group, and, where feasible, to individual locations. The assessment was carried out on the basis of the criteria required by the reference legislation (i.e. scale, scope, irremediability nature of the impact and probability), In particular, with reference to: – Own operations: The assessment of impacts was carried out in relation to the physical operations of VUB Group including: owned buildings and buildings rented from other entities, premises (branches, offices), sites of ATMs and the corporate fleet of vehicles. Geographical scope of the analysis covers Slovakia and the Czech Republic; – Upstream value chain: The assessment of impacts was carried out through the analysis of internal documentation relevant to procurement – Rules for green banking procurement, ESG evaluation of suppliers, and feedback from suppliers to VUB's ESG Questionnaire; – Downstream value chain: An analysis was carried out on the indirect impacts conveyed through the exposures in the financed portfolios of the VUB Group, especially the exposure to companies belonging to sectors considered to have a significant impact on climate change and/or are considered highly exposed to physical and transition risks caused by climate change. In addition, investment and financing strategies, policies, and criteria"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 346 in this area have been considered, including credit risk, market risk, strategic risk appetite and safeguards for avoiding the negative impacts. The assessment identi昀椀ed these impacts: – Own operations: Material negative impacts in both the direct and indirect emissions, connected to direct energy consumption and non-renewable energy use by the VUB Group. These negative impacts are interconnected with the positive impacts of adopted internal policies, corporate strategies and initiatives aimed at reducing the GHG emissions by increasing energy efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy sources, producing own renewable energy, and increasing the share of hybrid and electric vehicles in the fleet; – Upstream value chain: A potential positive impact to progressive reduction of indirect GHG emissions from the supply chain through adoption of supplier selection criteria preferring those that have adopted climate change neutrality commitments, mitigation policies, transition plans, etc. or implemented energy efficiency and renewable energy systems. However, the impact has been evaluated as non-material. – Downstream value chain: Material negative impacts of the VUB Group on climate change through indirect GHG emissions by individuals and companies financed by the VUB Group. On the other hand, the analysis revealed also material potential positive impacts of financing Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation initiatives (reduction of CO2 emissions) of our clients, via preferential financing of energy efficient buildings, energy efficiency initiatives and sustainable transition of our clients via TERRA product line, as well as financing linked to EIB and EU funds. For the purposes of determining 昀椀nancial materiality, the relevance of risks and opportunities was assessed through a dual approach, quantitative and qualitative, applied to the identi昀椀ed perimeters. A sustainability issue could be relevant from the short-, medium- or long-term perspective as de昀椀ned in line with the time horizons used in the 昀椀nancial perspective: – Short-term scenario: the reference time horizon is 1 year; – Medium-term scenario: the reference time horizon is up to 5 years; – Long-term scenario: the reference time horizon is more than 5 years. Based on the time period, internal benchmarks were taken into consideration (e.g. documentation relating to the limits of the Group's Risk Appetite Framework, business plan projections, simulations and projections used for internal purposes for risk analysis consistent with the regulatory and prudential elements to which the Group is subject) and impacts, risk and opportunities were analysed. However, the results of Double materiality analysis are not formulated for speci昀椀c time horizon expressing the urgency of all the matters. With regards to physical climate risks in its own operations, along the value chain and within the 昀椀nanced portfolio, the VUB Group has established a process for identi昀椀cation and assessment, consisting of the following key steps: – Identification of climate hazards – analysing potential climate-related physical risks, distinguishing between acute risks (e.g., floods, landslides, wildfires, wind gusts) and chronic risks (e.g., rising sea level, changes in average temperatures, changes in precipitation patterns); – Identification of support tools and climate data (hazard sectorial heatmaps, geospatial analysis, climate models and the hazard probability of occurrence and impact for each geography). Climate scenarios with high physical risk are being used. – Assessment of exposure and sensitivity for own operations – evaluating assets and operational activities to determine their level of exposure and sensitivity to identified climate hazards. This analysis considers the likelihood, potential severity, and duration of risks, incorporating the specific geographic coordinates of operational sites and high physical risk scenarios; – Value chain analysis – engaging key suppliers and partners to map physical risks across the supply chain, assessing the vulnerability of critical assets, logistics infrastructure and strategic raw materials; – Financed portfolio assessment – evaluating climate-related risks within the financed portfolio by analysing the exposure of counterparties to physical climate risks. This includes sector-specific and geographic assessments to identify vulnerabilities and potential financial impacts on lending and investment activities; – Integration into risk management systems – incorporating assessment results into the company’s risk management framework, establishing priorities and developing mitigation and adaptation strategies to minimize overall vulnerability. With reference to the loan portfolio, the identi昀椀cation of physical risks and the assessment of exposure to these risks take into account climate projections based on the NGFS (Network for Greening the Financial System) climate scenarios characterized by a high physical risk and, in particular, the Hot House World scenario. The VUB Group utilizes climate scenario analysis to assess physical risks, with a particular focus on collateral exposure to climate hazards. The analysis was conducted using hazard maps and geospatial data, aligned with NGFS (Hot House world) scenarios, to evaluate level of risk (low, medium, high, very high) of potential depreciation of residential"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 347 and commercial real estate. The impact of climate-related hazards on 昀椀nanced non-昀椀nancial corporate clients was assessed using sector-speci昀椀c heatmaps, geolocation data across the relevant time horizons according to the maturity, applying NGFS and Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) and Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) scenarios, providing insights into the potential future exposure and physical risk. To ensure a more precise risk assessment, loan portfolios were categorized based on maturity buckets (<5Y, 5-10Y, 10-20Y, >20Y) of the exposure. This approach, while distinct from the broader time horizons used in the Double Materiality Assessment (DMA), provides a more detailed perspective on risk distribution over time. With reference to physical risks of own operations the effective operational losses caused by disasters and other related events (operational risk) were considered. This includes meteorological phenomena, earthquakes, and 昀氀oods that could disrupt business continuity and cause 昀椀nancial losses. Based on the assessment performed, physical climate risks have been consistently identi昀椀ed as low or very low across all time horizons and traditional 昀椀nancial risk categories (credit, market, liquidity, and operational risk), thus reinforcing a stable risk pro昀椀le of the Group. With reference to the transition risks, the following analyses were carried out for the different reference perimeters identi昀椀ed: – Own operations: Operational risks (e.g., regulatory changes, energy transition requirements) and reputational risks related to any initiatives that may not align with Group's own sustainability commitments and climate objectives were assessed. This included evaluating potential challenges in adapting our operations to mitigate climate change impacts effectively; – Upstream value chain: Operational and reputational risks were evaluated concerning our suppliers. Specifically, the risk of engaging suppliers with insufficient or inadequate climate-related measures, such as inadequate management of greenhouse gas emissions. The potential for supply chain disruptions linked to the transition towards low-carbon alternatives were also examined; – Downstream value chain: Credit, market, and liquidity risks potentially arising from exposure to transition risks, such as changes in consumer demand, regulatory pressures, or shifts in market sentiment were assessed. The reputational risks related to Group's products and services, especially in light of evolving sustainability preferences among customers and stakeholders were also considered. Additionally, liquidity risks arising from the potential loss of institutional investors in case of failure to meet climate-related expectations were analysed, as that could affect access to capital and the Group’s financial stability. The identi昀椀ed transition events and their potential impacts on assets and business activities are as follows: – Short-term: Events such as increased pricing of GHG emissions, enhanced emissions-reporting obligations, and potential legal mandates on existing products or services. These events may lead to higher costs and changes in consumer behaviour; – Medium-term: Risks related to the failure of counterparties to define a transition plan, such as market risks and credit risks. These may affect the value of corporate bonds and the ability of counterparties to service debts, particularly if they fail to transition to a low-emission economy; – Long-term: The company may face reputational risks and potential exposure to litigation related to failure to meet climate targets or align with climate-related goals like those of the Net Zero Banking Alliance. These risks are linked to long-term exposure to regulatory changes and the transition to a low-carbon economy. The assessment of transition risks and opportunities has been primarily based on: – An analysis of real estate collateral and their EPC (Energy Performance Certificate) label, providing an overview of the energy efficiency distribution within the loan portfolio; – ESG sectoral assessment approach for Non-financial corporations (NFCs). This approach, common for all members of the ISP Group, provides a prudent, worst-case-scenario estimate of the NFCs susceptibility to a set of risk drivers, including, among others, physical, transition and environmental risk. This approach is mainly based on qualitative external sources analysis (qualitative top-down element) complemented by leveraging the granular and forward-looking results of the scenario analysis (quantitative bottom-up element). The top-down element analyses economic sectors’ vulnerability to C&E risks at large drawing on several external sources, thus leveraging on multiple perspectives in reaching a conversant evaluation. The bottom-up element leverages on climate stressed counterparty-level data, providing a more granular and forward-looking insight into the underlying vulnerabilities of the NFC portfolio. Together, these approaches help identify and qualify the risks economic sectors are exposed to; – A similar screening of individual borrowers, assessing their performance in ESG area through internally developed ISP Group ESG score. The Group identi昀椀ed several assets that need signi昀椀cant efforts to be compatible with a transition to a climate- neutral economy, especially within the 2030 milestone. These assets are mostly connected with downstream value"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 348 chain namely 昀椀nancing operations to Non-昀椀nancial corporations that did not develop transition plan nor committed to adequate GHG emission goals or loans collateralized by immovable property with low energy ef昀椀ciency. The assessment of exposure to transition events has been concluded as follows: – Credit risk related to counterparties failing to define a transition plan is currently assessed as immaterial. The likelihood of such an event is considered low; – Market risk arising from counterparties' failure to define a transition plan is also assessed as immaterial. This risk is not highly relevant within the business model of the VUB; – Liquidity risk associated with assets not aligned with sustainability objectives has been assessed as immaterial. The assessment, including the HQLA relevance analysis, indicates that such assets are unlikely to be classified as High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), meaning that their impact on overall liquidity is lower. The assessment process is expected to evolve over time to incorporate additional forward-looking methodologies for evaluating transition risks and opportunities, especially further scenario-based analysis such as NGFS or IEA (International Energy Agency) climate scenarios. The only material risk identi昀椀ed in the double materiality assessment is reputational risk arising from both transition and physical climate risks: 1. Transition risk: Failure to meet targets defined in the support of climate change mitigation (e.g., failure to meet targets under the Net Zero Banking Alliance); 2. Physical risk: Lack of focus on objectives supporting climate change adaptation, which could lead to reputational impacts related to business interruptions. This risk is classi昀椀ed as both a transition risk and a physical risk, as it is driven by evolving stakeholder expectations regarding mitigation commitments as well as the company’s response to physical climate-related challenges. A formal resilience analysis based on climate scenarios has not been conducted. However, selected stress tests were performed to assess the potential impact of ESG-related risks on credit risk. These tests are part of the 2024 ICAAP/ILAAP Adverse scenario, and focused on estimating potential effects on risk-weighted assets (RWA) and pro昀椀t/loss (P&L). The stress test methodology includes: – Corporate portfolio: Economic sectors were classified by ESG sensitivity based on an internal methodology. The probability of default (PD) was adjusted according to sector classification; – Retail mortgages: Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) were used as an indicator of transition risk, with adjustments applied to loss given default (LGD); – Flood event scenario: Potential effects of flooding were modelled for the retail portfolio, considering increased PD for affected borrowers and higher LGD for unsecured loans. The approach is based on expert judgment, and does not use climate scenario models such as NGFS or IEA. – The methodology is under development, and may be expanded in the future to incorporate additional factors. – The stress test analysis shows that the VUB Group is able to maintain a sound capital adequacy even under an adverse scenario. VUB Group recognizes the value of a comprehensive resilience analysis and intends to further develop this approach in the future, especially in relation to more detailed climate scenarios. Opportunities in relation to the transition to a low-carbon economy were identi昀椀ed, including the potential for product innovation, competitive advantage through sustainable practices, improved ef昀椀ciency through energy savings and waste reduction and improvement of brand reputation resulting from the achievement of objectives in support of climate change mitigation. Connection to climate-related assumptions in 昀椀nancial statement The company has utilized climate scenarios primarily for the identi昀椀cation and prediction of climate-related risks. Most assessed risks were determined to be immaterial, and as a result, no direct integration of climate scenario outcomes into 昀椀nancial statement assumptions has been made at this stage. However, reputational risk related to climate targets and commitments were assessed as material, but they have not yet been quanti昀椀ed or directly linked to 昀椀nancial statement assumptions. To ensure proactive risk management, the company has established limits and early warning indicators to monitor potential future developments and reassess materiality if necessary."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 349 Integration of climate-related performance in incentive schemes The VUB Group, in line with ISP Group approach, considers it essential to address and monitor climate-related issues and therefore implemented intermediary objectives in the incentive system. The ESG KPI was assigned in the 2024 target sheets to the CEO and approximately 150 managers of the VUB Group in Slovakia and the Czech Republic The characteristics of the KPI are in line with the growing attention on these issues by the Group's Customers, Shareholders, Regulators and other Stakeholders. With speci昀椀c reference to the variable remuneration of the Managing Director and CEO, climate aspects are taken into account both in the Annual Incentive System (15% weight) and in the long-term incentive plan. Speci昀椀cally, the KPIs are linked to the 昀椀nancing of clients in transition to sustainability: 1. % of new production of Sustainable Loans to Retail Customers; 2. % of new production of Corporate & SME Sustainable Loans. Finally, with reference to variable remuneration to Management – 3 bene昀椀ciaries (including the CEO, the remaining Top Management Risk Takers of the Group and the other Group Risk Takers), climate aspects are taken into account through Performance Share Plans (PSP) and recognized against the achievement of performance objectives within the composite ESG KPI. For further information please refer to standard ESRS2 – General disclosure, section Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes. Strategy for combating climate change Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Climate change represents one of the most signi昀椀cant global challenges of our time, with far-reaching impacts on the natural environment, human health, and economic prosperity. Effectively combating this existential threat requires a well-crafted, multidimensional strategy that encompasses global collaboration, technological innovation, policy reform, and community engagement. The VUB Group, recognizing the crucial role that 昀椀nancial institutions can play in this area, has developed and adopted a series of policies governing its business operations, resource procurement, 昀椀nancing and investments to address climate change mitigation, adaptation, energy ef昀椀ciency, renewable energy deployment, and transition to climate neutrality of the economy. These policies incorporate the interests of stakeholders, collected through targeted surveys and dialogues, while also considering feedback from rating agencies and 昀椀nancial regulators. In 2020, the VUB Bank, as a pioneer in the Group in Slovakia, published the Green Manifest where it declared its commitment to sustainability and environmental protection, as an integral part of its business DNA. With regards to climate change, Green Manifest declares supporting the transition to carbon neutral economy. The Bank is committed to supporting its clients by providing sustainable banking products and services while continuously enhancing internal standards and processes. It prioritizes energy ef昀椀ciency, emphasizes the use of renewable energy sources, and collaborates with suppliers who share its commitment to sustainability and engages employees by fostering a culture of environmental responsibility. Furthermore, the Bank supports the non-pro昀椀t sector through partnerships that promote environmental education, and climate change awareness in Slovakia. In this effort, VUB Bank is accompanied by its subsidiaries and strongly supported by the parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group. The cornerstone of VUB Group's environmental policy is its Code of Ethics, a binding document outlining standards and principles for managing and controlling bodies, for employees and contracted third parties in line with the commitments made by the ISP Group in relation to international initiatives: UN Global Compact, the contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, the Women's Empowerment Principles, the Net Zero Alliances as well as the PRB Principles for Responsible Banking, PRI Principles for Responsible Investment and PSI Principles for Sustainable Insurance Programs under the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). It promotes ef昀椀cient and conscious resource use, sustainable decision-making, and 昀椀ght against climate change. The Code also provides guidelines for management of indirect environmental impacts in value chain among others by promoting services and products to foster the development of a low-emission economy, also through the dissemination of renewable energy and energy ef昀椀ciency improvement. It also speci昀椀es the principles of the process of managing purchases of goods and services: – Transparency and fairness in the selection and qualification of suppliers throughout the entire supply chain, also evaluating local specificities, respect for the environment, human rights, working conditions, business ethics; – The adoption of measures and tools aimed at minimizing negative impacts and promoting awareness of ESG risks and opportunities."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 348 chain namely 昀椀nancing operations to Non-昀椀nancial corporations that did not develop transition plan nor committed to adequate GHG emission goals or loans collateralized by immovable property with low energy ef昀椀ciency. The assessment of exposure to transition events has been concluded as follows: – Credit risk related to counterparties failing to define a transition plan is currently assessed as immaterial. The likelihood of such an event is considered low; – Market risk arising from counterparties' failure to define a transition plan is also assessed as immaterial. This risk is not highly relevant within the business model of the VUB; – Liquidity risk associated with assets not aligned with sustainability objectives has been assessed as immaterial. The assessment, including the HQLA relevance analysis, indicates that such assets are unlikely to be classified as High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), meaning that their impact on overall liquidity is lower. The assessment process is expected to evolve over time to incorporate additional forward-looking methodologies for evaluating transition risks and opportunities, especially further scenario-based analysis such as NGFS or IEA (International Energy Agency) climate scenarios. The only material risk identi昀椀ed in the double materiality assessment is reputational risk arising from both transition and physical climate risks: 1. Transition risk: Failure to meet targets defined in the support of climate change mitigation (e.g., failure to meet targets under the Net Zero Banking Alliance); 2. Physical risk: Lack of focus on objectives supporting climate change adaptation, which could lead to reputational impacts related to business interruptions. This risk is classi昀椀ed as both a transition risk and a physical risk, as it is driven by evolving stakeholder expectations regarding mitigation commitments as well as the company’s response to physical climate-related challenges. A formal resilience analysis based on climate scenarios has not been conducted. However, selected stress tests were performed to assess the potential impact of ESG-related risks on credit risk. These tests are part of the 2024 ICAAP/ILAAP Adverse scenario, and focused on estimating potential effects on risk-weighted assets (RWA) and pro昀椀t/loss (P&L). The stress test methodology includes: – Corporate portfolio: Economic sectors were classified by ESG sensitivity based on an internal methodology. The probability of default (PD) was adjusted according to sector classification; – Retail mortgages: Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) were used as an indicator of transition risk, with adjustments applied to loss given default (LGD); – Flood event scenario: Potential effects of flooding were modelled for the retail portfolio, considering increased PD for affected borrowers and higher LGD for unsecured loans. The approach is based on expert judgment, and does not use climate scenario models such as NGFS or IEA. – The methodology is under development, and may be expanded in the future to incorporate additional factors. – The stress test analysis shows that the VUB Group is able to maintain a sound capital adequacy even under an adverse scenario. VUB Group recognizes the value of a comprehensive resilience analysis and intends to further develop this approach in the future, especially in relation to more detailed climate scenarios. Opportunities in relation to the transition to a low-carbon economy were identi昀椀ed, including the potential for product innovation, competitive advantage through sustainable practices, improved ef昀椀ciency through energy savings and waste reduction and improvement of brand reputation resulting from the achievement of objectives in support of climate change mitigation. Connection to climate-related assumptions in 昀椀nancial statement The company has utilized climate scenarios primarily for the identi昀椀cation and prediction of climate-related risks. Most assessed risks were determined to be immaterial, and as a result, no direct integration of climate scenario outcomes into 昀椀nancial statement assumptions has been made at this stage. However, reputational risk related to climate targets and commitments were assessed as material, but they have not yet been quanti昀椀ed or directly linked to 昀椀nancial statement assumptions. To ensure proactive risk management, the company has established limits and early warning indicators to monitor potential future developments and reassess materiality if necessary."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 349 Integration of climate-related performance in incentive schemes The VUB Group, in line with ISP Group approach, considers it essential to address and monitor climate-related issues and therefore implemented intermediary objectives in the incentive system. The ESG KPI was assigned in the 2024 target sheets to the CEO and approximately 150 managers of the VUB Group in Slovakia and the Czech Republic The characteristics of the KPI are in line with the growing attention on these issues by the Group's Customers, Shareholders, Regulators and other Stakeholders. With speci昀椀c reference to the variable remuneration of the Managing Director and CEO, climate aspects are taken into account both in the Annual Incentive System (15% weight) and in the long-term incentive plan. Speci昀椀cally, the KPIs are linked to the 昀椀nancing of clients in transition to sustainability: 1. % of new production of Sustainable Loans to Retail Customers; 2. % of new production of Corporate & SME Sustainable Loans. Finally, with reference to variable remuneration to Management – 3 bene昀椀ciaries (including the CEO, the remaining Top Management Risk Takers of the Group and the other Group Risk Takers), climate aspects are taken into account through Performance Share Plans (PSP) and recognized against the achievement of performance objectives within the composite ESG KPI. For further information please refer to standard ESRS2 – General disclosure, section Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes. Strategy for combating climate change Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Climate change represents one of the most signi昀椀cant global challenges of our time, with far-reaching impacts on the natural environment, human health, and economic prosperity. Effectively combating this existential threat requires a well-crafted, multidimensional strategy that encompasses global collaboration, technological innovation, policy reform, and community engagement. The VUB Group, recognizing the crucial role that 昀椀nancial institutions can play in this area, has developed and adopted a series of policies governing its business operations, resource procurement, 昀椀nancing and investments to address climate change mitigation, adaptation, energy ef昀椀ciency, renewable energy deployment, and transition to climate neutrality of the economy. These policies incorporate the interests of stakeholders, collected through targeted surveys and dialogues, while also considering feedback from rating agencies and 昀椀nancial regulators. In 2020, the VUB Bank, as a pioneer in the Group in Slovakia, published the Green Manifest where it declared its commitment to sustainability and environmental protection, as an integral part of its business DNA. With regards to climate change, Green Manifest declares supporting the transition to carbon neutral economy. The Bank is committed to supporting its clients by providing sustainable banking products and services while continuously enhancing internal standards and processes. It prioritizes energy ef昀椀ciency, emphasizes the use of renewable energy sources, and collaborates with suppliers who share its commitment to sustainability and engages employees by fostering a culture of environmental responsibility. Furthermore, the Bank supports the non-pro昀椀t sector through partnerships that promote environmental education, and climate change awareness in Slovakia. In this effort, VUB Bank is accompanied by its subsidiaries and strongly supported by the parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group. The cornerstone of VUB Group's environmental policy is its Code of Ethics, a binding document outlining standards and principles for managing and controlling bodies, for employees and contracted third parties in line with the commitments made by the ISP Group in relation to international initiatives: UN Global Compact, the contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, the Women's Empowerment Principles, the Net Zero Alliances as well as the PRB Principles for Responsible Banking, PRI Principles for Responsible Investment and PSI Principles for Sustainable Insurance Programs under the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). It promotes ef昀椀cient and conscious resource use, sustainable decision-making, and 昀椀ght against climate change. The Code also provides guidelines for management of indirect environmental impacts in value chain among others by promoting services and products to foster the development of a low-emission economy, also through the dissemination of renewable energy and energy ef昀椀ciency improvement. It also speci昀椀es the principles of the process of managing purchases of goods and services: – Transparency and fairness in the selection and qualification of suppliers throughout the entire supply chain, also evaluating local specificities, respect for the environment, human rights, working conditions, business ethics; – The adoption of measures and tools aimed at minimizing negative impacts and promoting awareness of ESG risks and opportunities."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 350 The document is publicly available on the Bank's website for all stakeholders (Code of ethics | VUB Bank). The implementation of the Code of Ethics has resulted in supplementary policies and procedures aimed at speci昀椀c areas of operations. For resource procurement, it is the Green Banking Procurement Rules that ensure responsible purchasing in areas such as energy, of昀椀ce materials, and sustainable renovations via identi昀椀cation of the best design solutions, products, or services from an environmental perspective throughout its life cycle, considering market availability. Key impacts considered include energy consumption and the resulting carbon dioxide emissions, waste generation, and the consumption of materials such as paper, toner, stationery, and of昀椀ce machines. The choice of supplier takes into account not only its specialization in the required product 昀椀eld and its economic and 昀椀nancial stability but also its reputational and sustainability pro昀椀le across all ESG areas. This includes assessing potential external risks, such as ongoing judicial and insolvency proceedings. In its operations, the Group adheres to the Environmental and Energy Policy of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. This policy aims to minimize environmental impacts, manage ESG risks, and ensure compliance with regulations. It emphasizes ef昀椀cient resource and energy use, careful supplier selection based on ethical, social, and environmental criteria, and the prevention of environmental harm. The Guidelines for the Governance of environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks address climate change within the broader context of environmental risks across operations, the value chain, and the 昀椀nanced portfolio. These guidelines aim to mitigate material risks associated with climate change and support the transition to a low- carbon economy. The guidelines establish a framework for managing sustainability risks, stating key principles, specifying sectors sensitive to ESG or reputational risks, de昀椀ning responsibilities, and monitoring mechanisms. The core focus is placed on limiting exposure to high-carbon industries, integrating ESG risk factors into credit policies, and promoting sustainable 昀椀nancing solutions. The effectiveness of the policy is monitored through internal limits, ESG Committee oversight, and risk appetite thresholds. The guidelines apply across the entire Group, including all banking activities, risk management processes, and 昀椀nancing operations. They cover both corporate and retail portfolios, ensuring ESG factors are assessed in client screenings and sectoral risk evaluations. Exclusions apply primarily to the coal mining and oil and gas sectors, where stricter rules aim at phasing out exposure for coil mining. The policy aligns with international sustainability frameworks, including the UN 2030 Agenda, the European Commission’s Action Plan for Sustainable Growth, the EBA Guidelines, and ECB expectations. The policy takes into account the interests of key stakeholders, including regulators, investors, and clients, by balancing 昀椀nancial stability with sustainability goals. In lending activities, sustainability-linked 昀椀nancing and advisory services are provided to help clients transition to greener business models. The policy is integrated into internal governance frameworks and embedded in the Group’s risk appetite and credit policies, which de昀椀ne VUB Group’s lending portfolio strategy for each relevant sector based on ESG aspects, among others. Relevant guidelines are communicated to stakeholders through corporate reports, regulatory disclosures, and direct engagement with clients and investors. In order to steer the development of 昀椀nanced portfolio, the Group equipped itself with Rules for the classi昀椀cation of sustainable credit products and operations. This regulation applies to Group companies and outlines various categories of environmentally sustainable activities, with internal criteria different from the European Taxonomy, in favour of both climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation. The classi昀椀cation categories of credit products and sustainable credit operations have been de昀椀ned in line with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Loan Market Association (LMA) on Green Loan, Social Loan and Sustainability-linked Loan Principles. These principles provide a shared framework at a global level, promoting standardization and transparency of practices in the sustainable 昀椀nancial sector. The Group publicly declares its environmental commitments across 昀椀nancial products, suppliers, and the overall environmental impact. The above-mentioned internal policies are accessible to respective internal stakeholders via the Group’s intranet. The main goal of the Environmental Social and Governance Committee (‘ESG Committee’), as a permanent consultative and decision-making committee of VUB Bank, is to coordinate and steer ESG related matters and to ensure the correct implementation of the ESG strategy, policies and respective ISP Group guidelines within the VUB Group. It also regularly evaluates policy effectiveness, reviews sustainability KPIs, and oversees risk mitigation measures. It is headed by the Deputy CEO who acts as ESG Manager - the top management level responsible for the implementation of the policies in sustainability area."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 351 ESG risk governance process The ‘ESG Risk Governance Guidelines’ outline the ESG risk governance process of the Group (also on climate change adaptation issues), which is divided into 5 phases: – Identification: Identification and description of ESG risk factors, also in terms of transmission channels, with particular reference to climate and environmental risks (for example, ESG risk scenarios in Stress Testing processes); – Evaluation and measurement: Determination of exposure to ESG risks (e.g. the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process); – Monitoring and control: Outpost in the continuous evolution of exposure to ESG risks (regular reporting of ESG risks to ESG Committee, monitoring of established ESG KPIs in the Risk Appetite Framework); – Mitigation: Containment of ESG risks through appropriate actions and strategies, also preventive, aimed at reducing the severity of the impact of such risks (for example, defining remedial actions in case of exceeding ESG limits in the RAF, definition of Credit Strategies for all relevant sectors); – Communication: Preparation of suitable information flows aimed at ensuring adequate transparency and knowledge of exposure to ESG risks (for example, ESG risk reporting and ESG risk disclosures, including indicators that factor in physical climate risks). In particular, with reference to the above-mentioned evaluation and measurement phase, the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process has been implemented. It aims to identify and assess ex ante the potential ESG and reputational risks (including climate and environmental risks) related to credit proposals, supplier/third-party selection connected to commercial agreements, equity investments, and extraordinary transactions. The ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process is therefore intended to represent the potential ESG and reputational risk pro昀椀les related to a speci昀椀c operation/counterparty or initiative, enabling an informed assumption of risk for the interested decision-making processes. A 昀椀rst level of clearing, carried out by the line functions, is aimed at analysing the main ESG and reputational risk factors and is performed by the structure that manages the relationship with the counterparty. In this context, credit proposals are subject to 昀椀rst-level clearing with differentiated methods based on sectoral assessments and the characteristics of the individual counterparty and operation. A second level of clearing, activated based on the results of the 昀椀rst level, is aimed at deepening and evaluating the critical issues that may have emerged from the 昀椀rst level and involves an expert analysis of these risk pro昀椀les. Generally, the outcome of the evaluation consists of an advisory opinion that includes an assessment of the main critical issues identi昀椀ed, the related mitigants, and the level of risk assigned based on proprietary metrics. In the presence of risk classes that are not consistent with the Group's risk propensity, speci昀椀c escalation mechanisms are activated. The implementation of the Equator Principles (EP) is situated within the broader framework of ESG risk assessment and management. These principles establish a framework for environmental and social risk management in the 昀椀nancing of large projects, thus strengthening the commitment to managing the impacts associated with customer business activities. The EPs are international guidelines that the Intesa Sanpaolo Group adheres to on a voluntary basis since 2007, using the latest updated version (EP IV) applicable to the 昀椀nancing of infrastructure and industrial projects that can have negative effects on people and the environment (such as energy plants, petrochemical plants, mines, infrastructure in the 昀椀eld of transport and telecommunications). These principles are based on the criteria of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank and concern, regarding to environmental issues: pollution prevention and the promotion of energy ef昀椀ciency; the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable management of natural resources. The EP apply, regardless of the industrial sector in which the customer operates, when 昀椀nancing product is used to support the development of new projects and meet speci昀椀c criteria: The project evaluation process begins with the assignment of a risk category on three levels by the Group, which involves the integrated consideration of various factors. Proportionally to the assigned risk level, the requirements to be met are de昀椀ned in terms of both documentations to be produced, and activities to be carried out by the customer. In this context, the Group incorporates environmental and social clauses into the 昀椀nancing documentation and veri昀椀es the correct implementation of the agreed clauses. Management of sustainability issues in sensitive sectors At the portfolio level and with reference to decarbonization objectives, the ESG Risk Management Guidelines also detail the ESG risk management model based on the materiality assessment of ESG risk factors with respect to the different risk families (credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, and reputational risk) and their integration into the various risk management areas. The materiality analysis (Climate/ESG Materiality Assessment) is an evaluation process that assesses the potential impacts of ESG and climate risks on the Group. This analysis is based on an organic and structured approach to risk assessment, which involves a granular breakdown of risk drivers and the integration of forward-looking elements. The aggregated analysis of the materiality of ESG risk factors at"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 352 the sector level facilitates the establishment of an enhanced risk management framework for the sectors most exposed to ESG risks. This process includes de昀椀ning sector-speci昀椀c strategies and implementing speci昀椀c measures within the Risk Appetite Framework (i.e., the RAF). These measures may consist of general criteria for limiting and excluding loans or a detailed criteria applicable to individual sensitive sectors through the application of speci昀椀c sectoral rules. GHG emissions reduction targets The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, aware of the challenge posed by climate change, has committed to contributing to the achievement of global climate goals, by pursuing the Net-Zero goal by 2050 in terms of both own emissions and loans and investments portfolios, also by setting intermediate targets by 2030. The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes and fully commits to ful昀椀lment of the targets at the Group level. Therefore, it has not set GHG emissions reduction targets or adopted transition plan at its own consolidation level. Nevertheless, the VUB Group is contributing to parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group's plan for the reduction of its ‘own’ emissions, adopted in 2022, called the ‘Own Emissions Plan’, which is compliant with Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) protocol (validation obtained in January 2025). The levers to achieve the declared decarbonization objectives are identi昀椀ed as: 1. Achievement of 100% of electricity from renewable sources purchased for its operations until 2030; 2. Reducing overall energy consumption, and especially dependence on fossil fuels for the Group's buildings; 3. Electrification of the company car fleet, both through hybrid and electric vehicles, with the consequent installation of charging stations. The Own Emissions Plan progress is periodically shared during the meetings of the ESG Committee. In this context, as of 31. December 2024, the ISP Group has already reduced emissions by 35% compared to the 2019 baseline. This reduction corresponds to 34,256 thousand tons of CO2e, and the ISP Group con昀椀rms it is on track to meet the target set for 2030. Other targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in own operations Portfolio level To achieve the objectives for reducing emissions and to accompany customers on their path towards decarbonization intermediary 2030 emission reduction targets were set on the ISP Group level, which includes the VUB Group. These targets focus on sectors identi昀椀ed based on a materiality criterion among those with the highest emission intensity as per NZBA. The VUB Group has not set targets on its own consolidated level. To support this objective, the VUB Group has identi昀椀ed several levers: – Dedicated products and incentives, including: o Access to a credit ceiling dedicated to the circular economy, aimed at customers who adopt a circular business model with innovative methods, granting them supportive conditions for access to credit. The ceiling does not follow the technical screening criteria of the European Taxonomy, having been developed before its entry into force, in close partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation; o Green financings aimed at financing projects with a significant environmental impact; o Sustainability-linked financing that provides a discount/bonus mechanism as an incentive for customers who meet predefined sustainability targets; o Advisory services to support customer decarbonization and accompany them in the utilization of proper ESG financial tools linked to their strategies and transition plans. To ensure constant progress, internal KPIs have been set in both Retail and Corporate banking Divisions and their development is being monitored regularly by ESG Committee. Actions and resources related to climate change To support its climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, the VUB Group has designed several action types: – Improvement of physical infrastructure – energy efficiency, renewable energy, and GHG avoidance in own buildings operation; – Improvement of data infrastructure; – Awareness raising and marketing support for dedicated financial products and incentives; – VUB continues in its own ‘ATLAS’ series of conferences, discussions, and panel talks focused on good practices,"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 352 the sector level facilitates the establishment of an enhanced risk management framework for the sectors most exposed to ESG risks. This process includes de昀椀ning sector-speci昀椀c strategies and implementing speci昀椀c measures within the Risk Appetite Framework (i.e., the RAF). These measures may consist of general criteria for limiting and excluding loans or a detailed criteria applicable to individual sensitive sectors through the application of speci昀椀c sectoral rules. GHG emissions reduction targets The Intesa Sanpaolo Group, aware of the challenge posed by climate change, has committed to contributing to the achievement of global climate goals, by pursuing the Net-Zero goal by 2050 in terms of both own emissions and loans and investments portfolios, also by setting intermediate targets by 2030. The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, contributes and fully commits to ful昀椀lment of the targets at the Group level. Therefore, it has not set GHG emissions reduction targets or adopted transition plan at its own consolidation level. Nevertheless, the VUB Group is contributing to parent Intesa Sanpaolo Group's plan for the reduction of its ‘own’ emissions, adopted in 2022, called the ‘Own Emissions Plan’, which is compliant with Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) protocol (validation obtained in January 2025). The levers to achieve the declared decarbonization objectives are identi昀椀ed as: 1. Achievement of 100% of electricity from renewable sources purchased for its operations until 2030; 2. Reducing overall energy consumption, and especially dependence on fossil fuels for the Group's buildings; 3. Electrification of the company car fleet, both through hybrid and electric vehicles, with the consequent installation of charging stations. The Own Emissions Plan progress is periodically shared during the meetings of the ESG Committee. In this context, as of 31. December 2024, the ISP Group has already reduced emissions by 35% compared to the 2019 baseline. This reduction corresponds to 34,256 thousand tons of CO2e, and the ISP Group con昀椀rms it is on track to meet the target set for 2030. Other targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation in own operations Portfolio level To achieve the objectives for reducing emissions and to accompany customers on their path towards decarbonization intermediary 2030 emission reduction targets were set on the ISP Group level, which includes the VUB Group. These targets focus on sectors identi昀椀ed based on a materiality criterion among those with the highest emission intensity as per NZBA. The VUB Group has not set targets on its own consolidated level. To support this objective, the VUB Group has identi昀椀ed several levers: – Dedicated products and incentives, including: o Access to a credit ceiling dedicated to the circular economy, aimed at customers who adopt a circular business model with innovative methods, granting them supportive conditions for access to credit. The ceiling does not follow the technical screening criteria of the European Taxonomy, having been developed before its entry into force, in close partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation; o Green financings aimed at financing projects with a significant environmental impact; o Sustainability-linked financing that provides a discount/bonus mechanism as an incentive for customers who meet predefined sustainability targets; o Advisory services to support customer decarbonization and accompany them in the utilization of proper ESG financial tools linked to their strategies and transition plans. To ensure constant progress, internal KPIs have been set in both Retail and Corporate banking Divisions and their development is being monitored regularly by ESG Committee. Actions and resources related to climate change To support its climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives, the VUB Group has designed several action types: – Improvement of physical infrastructure – energy efficiency, renewable energy, and GHG avoidance in own buildings operation; – Improvement of data infrastructure; – Awareness raising and marketing support for dedicated financial products and incentives; – VUB continues in its own ‘ATLAS’ series of conferences, discussions, and panel talks focused on good practices,"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 353 innovation, and knowledge sharing launched in 2022; – Partnerships with professional organizations for knowledge sharing. This involves both knowledge sharing for improvement of Group's own infrastructure, practices and strategies, as well as improvement of the sustainability of the overall economy, primarily in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. The Group is active in the following areas where awareness raising, education, best practice and knowledge exchange projects and events enable mitigation and/or adaptation to climate change: – Sustainable buildings and their energy efficiency, sustainable construction and renovation; e.g. Buildings For Future, Slovak green building council; – Sustainable urban planning, climate change adaptation of cities, and green infrastructure; e.g. Institute for Passive Houses, International Climate Adaptation Institute, Manifest2020; – Circular economy, waste reduction, and sustainable procurement; e.g. Circular Slovakia, Sustainable e-shop project with VISA and Heureka; – Sustainable and biodiversity friendly agriculture and food production; e.g. Living Farm project of Environmentalist association BROZ; – Environmental education and support for innovation for children and young people, e.g. For Better Future of Earth, Lifbee Academy; – Support for relevant programs and projects of VUB Foundation. This includes 昀椀nancial support, provision of creative agency services, and covering marketing costs for projects and programs Envirogrants, and ATLAS Award to raise public awareness, motivate and foster the shift towards sustainability. Climate change actions and resources at the own operation In line with its commitment to addressing climate change, the Bank has implemented and planned a series of key actions aimed at mitigating its environmental impact and achieving medium- and long-term sustainability goals: 1. Energy Ef昀椀ciency Initiatives: o Installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of the VUB headquarters started in 2024, an additional installation is currently underway. o The Bank is progressively replacing obsolete air conditioning and electrical systems at selected sites, specifically LED re-lamping (6 premises), refurbishment of HVAC systems (20 locations), complete refurbishment of electricity consuming systems (5 branches), replacement of boiler (1 branch), refurbishment of natural gas-based heating (7 locations), replacement of windows and building envelope insulation (2 branches). ▪ A comprehensive energy efficiency study was conducted for all the Bank’s premises; ▪ A study on the deployment of LED lighting technology was conducted, with gradual implementation planned. 2. Transition to Renewable Energy: o The Bank finished a procurement process and from the next contractual cycle starting in 2025 the Group will purchase 100% renewable electric energy (Guarantees of origin) via bundled contract for own premises. 3. Fleet and Mobility Enhancements: o The company car fleet is undergoing a gradual transition to hybrid and fully electric vehicles. o Charging stations for electric vehicles are being installed at VUB premises. 4. Infrastructure Improvements: o Ongoing studies are assessing the feasibility of green roofs and green walls, renewable energy, use of sustainable cooling gases. 5. Paper and Material Usage Optimization: o The Bank has long sought and implemented strategies to reduce paper and material consumption. From 2024 onwards, all office paper is being procured exclusively from eco-friendly, sustainable sources. For main material categories there are defined criteria to minimize its negative impact. These actions are expected to contribute signi昀椀cantly to the reduction of the Group’s negative impacts in medium- term and serve as building blocks for long-term sustainability extending to 2050 Medium-term objectives include completing infrastructure upgrades and expanding the deployment of sustainable technologies. The Bank leverages its annual capital budget cycle to ensure funding for these measures while strategically allocating"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 354 resources to areas of the highest impact. Successful implementation is also contingent on access to appropriate technologies, employee expertise, and supportive regulatory frameworks. Climate change actions and resources at the portfolio level In line with the regulatory evolution on sustainability, the Group adopts a medium-long term strategy and a cross- cutting and holistic approach to ESG issues, which is based on: – The definition of a Group ESG strategy; – The integration of ESG factors into the general Risk Management framework, particularly within the Risk Appetite Framework, where a specific section is dedicated to ESG risks and climate change; – The integration of ESG factors in credit processes and in the definition of credit strategies; – A careful evaluation of ESG factors in the development of policies, products and services; – The spread of ESG risk culture throughout the corporate organization. With reference to climate change mitigation, the integration of ESG risks into the Risk Management framework takes place through various actions. In particular, the RAF integrates and translates into speci昀椀c measures what is de昀椀ned in terms of strategic guidelines, ESG/Climate Materiality Assessment and ESG Sectoral Colour Coding, identifying year by year limits, Key Risk Indicators, and speci昀椀c actions aimed at containing ESG risks, with particular reference to the sectors most exposed to such risks. – Specific limits with reference to exposure to the Coal Mining and Oil & Gas sectors, particularly for Coal mining the limit is revised annually in line with the objective of phasing out financing by 2025; – The monitoring of new disbursements broken down by energy performance classes (EPC) with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and, consequently, reducing the transition risk related to mortgage loans; – Specific Risk appetite limits on share of collateral with EPC classes F and G and with Very high physical risk in the Retail Mortgage portfolio, with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and consequently, reducing the risk of transition and physical risk related to mortgage loans. In particular, with reference to the lower energy performance classes (APE certifications) and areas with very high physical risk; – Transactions with potentially high ESG risks undergo ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, utilizing the ESG profile and score of the counterparty and considerations on the impacts that physical and transition risk drivers can have. Within the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, where the ESG pro昀椀le and score of the counterparty are used, which also includes considerations on the impacts that physical climate risk drivers might have. The actions reported are implemented as an essential part of the Group's strategy for managing climate risks and do not require speci昀椀c dedicated resources exclusively for these actions, as they are included in the general context of the Group's ESG strategy. An exact quanti昀椀cation of the reduction of emissions associated with each action at portfolio level is not feasible, due to the complex connection between the actions taken and the trend of emissions in the reference sectors of the counterparties. In 2024, the VUB Group continued its commitment to retail customers, both individual and small business, through the provision of mortgages and loans with environmental purposes. Via Green mortgages, the VUB Bank incentivizes clients with a preferential interest rate for 昀椀nancing a purchase of a property with high energy performance class (‘A’). Clients with other properties are encouraged to assess their energy ef昀椀ciency and when they provide a valid EPC, they receive a reduction of loan granting fee. In addition to offering a new mortgage the VUB Group has implemented a series of activities aimed at collecting the information on the energy performance of the properties that guarantee existing mortgages, which further raises awareness among clients and allow the Bank to precisely manage the associated transition risk. Green loan is a 昀椀nancial solution with incentive for clients who want to improve energy performance through, for example, the replacement of windows and high-yield boilers, insulation and the installation of solar and photovoltaic panels. To support sustainable transition of SME and Corporate clients, the VUB Bank introduced the TERRA product line, offering loans with preferential interest rates to support sustainability in areas of environmental, social and governance sustainability. Within the TERRA Enviro two products are offered: – GREEN S-LOAN+: Dedicated loan to support all types of corporate investments and projects capable of generating a positive environmental impact on processes, infrastructures, technologies, services and products in line with the LMA categorization (e.g., Renewable energies, Energy efficiency, Pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of natural resources, Clean transportation, Sustainable water and"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 355 wastewater management, Climate change adaptation, Eco-efficient and/or circular economy, Green buildings or Projects aimed at activities with zero CO2 emissions, such as electricity production using solar, wind, oceanic, hydroelectric technology). – ENVIRO LOAN: Dedicated loan supporting circular economy projects, including resource efficiency, sustainable sourcing, recyclability, and green innovation. For these loans, individual ESG KPIs can be set up with the client. Below is a summary of the total amount disbursed during the 2024 昀椀nancial year in the 昀椀eld environmental sustainability by business line: Business line Disbursed amount (in million EUR) Retail 599.2 Corporate 187.4 Amount disbursed in Retail Business line relates predominantly to Mortgage loan with EPC A and B. The disbursed data of the 昀椀nancings are calculated using management balances. The VUB Group supports sustainable choices of clients also in the area of investments. Please refer to the standard ESRS S4 – Consumers and end-users, section Sustainability-conscious investments by the VUB Group. Actions and resources related to supply chain To manage the impacts from value chain each vendor undergoes a quali昀椀cation process through the Supplier Portal. The evaluation of registered suppliers considers not only their economic-昀椀nancial and technical-organizational characteristics but also aspects related to business ethics, respect for human rights, workers' rights, and the environment. This evaluation is based on speci昀椀c questionnaires and/or the possession of certain certi昀椀cations (including ISO 50001 and 14001, and the adoption of an energy management system compliant with ISO 50001 standards). In 2024, completing the ESG questionnaire became mandatory as a prerequisite for participating in tenders or direct negotiations through the Supplier Portal and the ESG evaluation was incorporated into the technical assessment of the supplier’s offer in the tender evaluation."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 356 Metrics on energy consumption The goal of the VUB Group is to reduce the consumption of primary energy in its own buildings as well as in rented branches. The total energy consumption consists of electricity consumption, including that of e-vehicles, natural gas consumption in own boiler rooms, and heat/cold taken from district heating/cooling supply in both owned and rented buildings, and fuel for diesel back-up generators. Within the individual energy components, the source from which the energy is produced is assessed. Energy consumption and mix The Energy consumption and mix for the current year are described below. Energy consumption and mix (in MWh) 2024 Total energy consumption 17,304.74 Total fossil energy consumption 10,367.23 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 2,628.45 Fuel consumption from natural gas 1,184.48 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources 6,554.29 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 59.91% Consumption from nuclear sources 4,015.97 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 23.21% Total renewable energy consumption 2,921.54 Fuel consumption from renewable sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 2,921.54 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 0 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 16.88% Non-renewable energy production 0 Renewable energy production 0 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Exposure in high climate impact sectors The VUB Group doesn’t have activity and revenues from high climate impact sectors."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 353 innovation, and knowledge sharing launched in 2022; – Partnerships with professional organizations for knowledge sharing. This involves both knowledge sharing for improvement of Group's own infrastructure, practices and strategies, as well as improvement of the sustainability of the overall economy, primarily in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. The Group is active in the following areas where awareness raising, education, best practice and knowledge exchange projects and events enable mitigation and/or adaptation to climate change: – Sustainable buildings and their energy efficiency, sustainable construction and renovation; e.g. Buildings For Future, Slovak green building council; – Sustainable urban planning, climate change adaptation of cities, and green infrastructure; e.g. Institute for Passive Houses, International Climate Adaptation Institute, Manifest2020; – Circular economy, waste reduction, and sustainable procurement; e.g. Circular Slovakia, Sustainable e-shop project with VISA and Heureka; – Sustainable and biodiversity friendly agriculture and food production; e.g. Living Farm project of Environmentalist association BROZ; – Environmental education and support for innovation for children and young people, e.g. For Better Future of Earth, Lifbee Academy; – Support for relevant programs and projects of VUB Foundation. This includes 昀椀nancial support, provision of creative agency services, and covering marketing costs for projects and programs Envirogrants, and ATLAS Award to raise public awareness, motivate and foster the shift towards sustainability. Climate change actions and resources at the own operation In line with its commitment to addressing climate change, the Bank has implemented and planned a series of key actions aimed at mitigating its environmental impact and achieving medium- and long-term sustainability goals: 1. Energy Ef昀椀ciency Initiatives: o Installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of the VUB headquarters started in 2024, an additional installation is currently underway. o The Bank is progressively replacing obsolete air conditioning and electrical systems at selected sites, specifically LED re-lamping (6 premises), refurbishment of HVAC systems (20 locations), complete refurbishment of electricity consuming systems (5 branches), replacement of boiler (1 branch), refurbishment of natural gas-based heating (7 locations), replacement of windows and building envelope insulation (2 branches). ▪ A comprehensive energy efficiency study was conducted for all the Bank’s premises; ▪ A study on the deployment of LED lighting technology was conducted, with gradual implementation planned. 2. Transition to Renewable Energy: o The Bank finished a procurement process and from the next contractual cycle starting in 2025 the Group will purchase 100% renewable electric energy (Guarantees of origin) via bundled contract for own premises. 3. Fleet and Mobility Enhancements: o The company car fleet is undergoing a gradual transition to hybrid and fully electric vehicles. o Charging stations for electric vehicles are being installed at VUB premises. 4. Infrastructure Improvements: o Ongoing studies are assessing the feasibility of green roofs and green walls, renewable energy, use of sustainable cooling gases. 5. Paper and Material Usage Optimization: o The Bank has long sought and implemented strategies to reduce paper and material consumption. From 2024 onwards, all office paper is being procured exclusively from eco-friendly, sustainable sources. For main material categories there are defined criteria to minimize its negative impact. These actions are expected to contribute signi昀椀cantly to the reduction of the Group’s negative impacts in medium- term and serve as building blocks for long-term sustainability extending to 2050 Medium-term objectives include completing infrastructure upgrades and expanding the deployment of sustainable technologies. The Bank leverages its annual capital budget cycle to ensure funding for these measures while strategically allocating"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 354 resources to areas of the highest impact. Successful implementation is also contingent on access to appropriate technologies, employee expertise, and supportive regulatory frameworks. Climate change actions and resources at the portfolio level In line with the regulatory evolution on sustainability, the Group adopts a medium-long term strategy and a cross- cutting and holistic approach to ESG issues, which is based on: – The definition of a Group ESG strategy; – The integration of ESG factors into the general Risk Management framework, particularly within the Risk Appetite Framework, where a specific section is dedicated to ESG risks and climate change; – The integration of ESG factors in credit processes and in the definition of credit strategies; – A careful evaluation of ESG factors in the development of policies, products and services; – The spread of ESG risk culture throughout the corporate organization. With reference to climate change mitigation, the integration of ESG risks into the Risk Management framework takes place through various actions. In particular, the RAF integrates and translates into speci昀椀c measures what is de昀椀ned in terms of strategic guidelines, ESG/Climate Materiality Assessment and ESG Sectoral Colour Coding, identifying year by year limits, Key Risk Indicators, and speci昀椀c actions aimed at containing ESG risks, with particular reference to the sectors most exposed to such risks. – Specific limits with reference to exposure to the Coal Mining and Oil & Gas sectors, particularly for Coal mining the limit is revised annually in line with the objective of phasing out financing by 2025; – The monitoring of new disbursements broken down by energy performance classes (EPC) with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and, consequently, reducing the transition risk related to mortgage loans; – Specific Risk appetite limits on share of collateral with EPC classes F and G and with Very high physical risk in the Retail Mortgage portfolio, with the aim of improving the quality of residential properties taken as collateral and consequently, reducing the risk of transition and physical risk related to mortgage loans. In particular, with reference to the lower energy performance classes (APE certifications) and areas with very high physical risk; – Transactions with potentially high ESG risks undergo ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, utilizing the ESG profile and score of the counterparty and considerations on the impacts that physical and transition risk drivers can have. Within the ESG & Reputational Risk Clearing process, where the ESG pro昀椀le and score of the counterparty are used, which also includes considerations on the impacts that physical climate risk drivers might have. The actions reported are implemented as an essential part of the Group's strategy for managing climate risks and do not require speci昀椀c dedicated resources exclusively for these actions, as they are included in the general context of the Group's ESG strategy. An exact quanti昀椀cation of the reduction of emissions associated with each action at portfolio level is not feasible, due to the complex connection between the actions taken and the trend of emissions in the reference sectors of the counterparties. In 2024, the VUB Group continued its commitment to retail customers, both individual and small business, through the provision of mortgages and loans with environmental purposes. Via Green mortgages, the VUB Bank incentivizes clients with a preferential interest rate for 昀椀nancing a purchase of a property with high energy performance class (‘A’). Clients with other properties are encouraged to assess their energy ef昀椀ciency and when they provide a valid EPC, they receive a reduction of loan granting fee. In addition to offering a new mortgage the VUB Group has implemented a series of activities aimed at collecting the information on the energy performance of the properties that guarantee existing mortgages, which further raises awareness among clients and allow the Bank to precisely manage the associated transition risk. Green loan is a 昀椀nancial solution with incentive for clients who want to improve energy performance through, for example, the replacement of windows and high-yield boilers, insulation and the installation of solar and photovoltaic panels. To support sustainable transition of SME and Corporate clients, the VUB Bank introduced the TERRA product line, offering loans with preferential interest rates to support sustainability in areas of environmental, social and governance sustainability. Within the TERRA Enviro two products are offered: – GREEN S-LOAN+: Dedicated loan to support all types of corporate investments and projects capable of generating a positive environmental impact on processes, infrastructures, technologies, services and products in line with the LMA categorization (e.g., Renewable energies, Energy efficiency, Pollution prevention and control, environmentally sustainable management of natural resources, Clean transportation, Sustainable water and"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 355 wastewater management, Climate change adaptation, Eco-efficient and/or circular economy, Green buildings or Projects aimed at activities with zero CO2 emissions, such as electricity production using solar, wind, oceanic, hydroelectric technology). – ENVIRO LOAN: Dedicated loan supporting circular economy projects, including resource efficiency, sustainable sourcing, recyclability, and green innovation. For these loans, individual ESG KPIs can be set up with the client. Below is a summary of the total amount disbursed during the 2024 昀椀nancial year in the 昀椀eld environmental sustainability by business line: Business line Disbursed amount (in million EUR) Retail 599.2 Corporate 187.4 Amount disbursed in Retail Business line relates predominantly to Mortgage loan with EPC A and B. The disbursed data of the 昀椀nancings are calculated using management balances. The VUB Group supports sustainable choices of clients also in the area of investments. Please refer to the standard ESRS S4 – Consumers and end-users, section Sustainability-conscious investments by the VUB Group. Actions and resources related to supply chain To manage the impacts from value chain each vendor undergoes a quali昀椀cation process through the Supplier Portal. The evaluation of registered suppliers considers not only their economic-昀椀nancial and technical-organizational characteristics but also aspects related to business ethics, respect for human rights, workers' rights, and the environment. This evaluation is based on speci昀椀c questionnaires and/or the possession of certain certi昀椀cations (including ISO 50001 and 14001, and the adoption of an energy management system compliant with ISO 50001 standards). In 2024, completing the ESG questionnaire became mandatory as a prerequisite for participating in tenders or direct negotiations through the Supplier Portal and the ESG evaluation was incorporated into the technical assessment of the supplier’s offer in the tender evaluation."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 356 Metrics on energy consumption The goal of the VUB Group is to reduce the consumption of primary energy in its own buildings as well as in rented branches. The total energy consumption consists of electricity consumption, including that of e-vehicles, natural gas consumption in own boiler rooms, and heat/cold taken from district heating/cooling supply in both owned and rented buildings, and fuel for diesel back-up generators. Within the individual energy components, the source from which the energy is produced is assessed. Energy consumption and mix The Energy consumption and mix for the current year are described below. Energy consumption and mix (in MWh) 2024 Total energy consumption 17,304.74 Total fossil energy consumption 10,367.23 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 2,628.45 Fuel consumption from natural gas 1,184.48 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources 6,554.29 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 59.91% Consumption from nuclear sources 4,015.97 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 23.21% Total renewable energy consumption 2,921.54 Fuel consumption from renewable sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 2,921.54 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 0 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 16.88% Non-renewable energy production 0 Renewable energy production 0 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Exposure in high climate impact sectors The VUB Group doesn’t have activity and revenues from high climate impact sectors."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 357 Metrics on GHG emissions Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions As part of ISP Group, the VUB Group measures and reports the effectiveness of its climate change mitigation and adaptation policies in own operations and at portfolio level through the metrics reported below, contributing to the achievement of its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. GHG emissions (in tCO2e) 2024 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Scope 1 GHG emissions Scope 1 948.70 Percentage of Scope 1 emissions from regulated emissions trading systems - Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Scope 2 GHG emissions Scope 2 location-based 2,049.58 GHG emissions Scope 2 market-based 1,330.91 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Scope 3 GHG emissions Scope 3 3,506,887.12 Percentage of Scope 3 emissions calculated using primary data 8.9% 1. Purchased goods and services 81.21 2. Capital goods 254.26 3. Fuel and energy-related activities 704.27 4. Upstream transportation and distribution 822.67 5. Waste generated in operations 6.36 6. Business travel - 7. Employee commuting - 8. Upstream leased assets - 9. Downstream transportation - 10. Processing of sold products - 11. Use of sold products 30.49 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products - 13. Downstream leased assets 42.43 14. Franchising - 15. Investments 3,504,945.43 Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 3,509,885.40 Total GHG emissions (market- based) 3,509,166.73 The Group monitors and reports the 昀椀nanced emissions of the investment portfolio (Scope 3, category 15) also through country-speci昀椀c metrics below. Metric ton of CO2 equivalent (tCO2eq) Country split of GHG emissions from investments Slovakia Other countries 2,144,747.34 1,360,198.09 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (GHG Protocol). The emission factors are used centrally across the whole ISP Group including the VUB Group. To characterize the impacts, regional data were used, where possible, or average European/global scenarios. Country-speci昀椀c ‘residual mix’ was used for electricity consumption. The emission factors of Ecoinvent 3.5 were used and the IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied. The methodologies for collecting and calculating the data in the signi昀椀cant categories of GHG emissions are detailed below:"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 356 Metrics on energy consumption The goal of the VUB Group is to reduce the consumption of primary energy in its own buildings as well as in rented branches. The total energy consumption consists of electricity consumption, including that of e-vehicles, natural gas consumption in own boiler rooms, and heat/cold taken from district heating/cooling supply in both owned and rented buildings, and fuel for diesel back-up generators. Within the individual energy components, the source from which the energy is produced is assessed. Energy consumption and mix The Energy consumption and mix for the current year are described below. Energy consumption and mix (in MWh) 2024 Total energy consumption 17,304.74 Total fossil energy consumption 10,367.23 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 2,628.45 Fuel consumption from natural gas 1,184.48 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources 6,554.29 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 59.91% Consumption from nuclear sources 4,015.97 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 23.21% Total renewable energy consumption 2,921.54 Fuel consumption from renewable sources 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 2,921.54 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 0 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 16.88% Non-renewable energy production 0 Renewable energy production 0 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors No income from high climate impact sectors Exposure in high climate impact sectors The VUB Group doesn’t have activity and revenues from high climate impact sectors."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 357 Metrics on GHG emissions Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions As part of ISP Group, the VUB Group measures and reports the effectiveness of its climate change mitigation and adaptation policies in own operations and at portfolio level through the metrics reported below, contributing to the achievement of its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. GHG emissions (in tCO2e) 2024 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Scope 1 GHG emissions Scope 1 948.70 Percentage of Scope 1 emissions from regulated emissions trading systems - Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Scope 2 GHG emissions Scope 2 location-based 2,049.58 GHG emissions Scope 2 market-based 1,330.91 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Scope 3 GHG emissions Scope 3 3,506,887.12 Percentage of Scope 3 emissions calculated using primary data 8.9% 1. Purchased goods and services 81.21 2. Capital goods 254.26 3. Fuel and energy-related activities 704.27 4. Upstream transportation and distribution 822.67 5. Waste generated in operations 6.36 6. Business travel - 7. Employee commuting - 8. Upstream leased assets - 9. Downstream transportation - 10. Processing of sold products - 11. Use of sold products 30.49 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products - 13. Downstream leased assets 42.43 14. Franchising - 15. Investments 3,504,945.43 Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location- based) 3,509,885.40 Total GHG emissions (market- based) 3,509,166.73 The Group monitors and reports the 昀椀nanced emissions of the investment portfolio (Scope 3, category 15) also through country-speci昀椀c metrics below. Metric ton of CO2 equivalent (tCO2eq) Country split of GHG emissions from investments Slovakia Other countries 2,144,747.34 1,360,198.09 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (GHG Protocol). The emission factors are used centrally across the whole ISP Group including the VUB Group. To characterize the impacts, regional data were used, where possible, or average European/global scenarios. Country-speci昀椀c ‘residual mix’ was used for electricity consumption. The emission factors of Ecoinvent 3.5 were used and the IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied. The methodologies for collecting and calculating the data in the signi昀椀cant categories of GHG emissions are detailed below:"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 358 Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions include emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Group: – The natural gas used for independent heating. The calculation is based on consumption data from meter readings, and emission factors by UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change); – The fuel used for the car fleet, including diesel used in back-up electricity diesel generators. The calculation is based on GPS monitoring of distance travelled, and invoices of fuel consumed by each individual vehicle (diesel, gasoline, gasoline-hybrid vehicles), regulatory infrastructure tests and servicing protocols of emergency generators, and emission factors are sourced from ISPRA (Instituto Superiore per la Protezione e la Ricerca Ambientale); – The leaks of F-gases (fluorinated gases used as refrigerants). The calculation is based on servicing and maintenance protocols of respective equipment, and emission factors from the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). The value of leaks in year 2024 was zero. Scope 2 – Indirect emissions result from the purchased or acquired energy generated off-site and consumed by the Group: – Electricity – The calculation is based on the fossil fuel-based electricity purchased from the supplier, documented by the invoices and meter readings, and emission factors using two approaches: o Market-based. The emission factor used is the ‘2023 residual mix’ factor for Slovakia, calculated by Intesa Sanpaolo. o Location-based. The emission factor used is ‘2023 national mix’ factor for Slovakia, obtained from International Energy Agency. – Thermal energy – fossil fuels district heating for central heating system. The calculation is based on natural gas consumption data acquired from a part of the lessors. For the remaining leased premises where the consumption data are not available an average consumption value per square meter was used. Emission factor was used from UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change). Scope 3 – category 1. The acquisitions of goods and services concerned: – The paper used in office activities. The processes considered are those ranging from production to delivery to the Group. Emissions from production represent an average industry scenario, obtained thanks to the British government's conversion factors for reporting greenhouse gases. For all processes within the system boundaries, greenhouse gas emission factors were obtained from Ecoinvent 3.5. The IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied; – The use of datacentre services in the cloud. The annual Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions reported by suppliers are considered, relative to the services offered to the Group. Scope 3 – category 2. Regarding instrumental goods, the most relevant computer and electronic equipment purchased by the Group during the reference year are considered: PCs and laptops, monitors, printers, smartphones, tablets, ATMs, etc. Scope 3 – category 3. In the energy vector indicator, related to the Group's energy consumption, emissions related to the fuel supply chain, construction and operation of infrastructure, distribution and transmission losses are included. To characterize the impacts, regional data were used where possible, along with average European or global scenarios. Regarding electricity consumption, country-speci昀椀c ‘residual mix’ was used. Ecoinvent 3.5 emission factors were used, and IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied. Scope 3 – category 4. Regarding transportation and upstream distribution, emissions generated by the transportation of cash for ATM replenishment carried out by third-party companies on behalf of the Group are accounted for. To model the system, a transport with vans was assumed. Emissions include all phases of the life cycle: fuel supply chain, combustion emissions, and vehicle manufacturing. Emission factors from Ecoinvent 3.5 were used. Scope 3 – category 5. The waste-related emissions include the end-of-life treatment of special waste generated by the activities carried out by the Group. The evaluated phases include the transport of waste to treatment plants, as well as end-of-life treatment. For the remaining waste 昀氀ows sent to land昀椀lls, incineration or other treatment processes, the emission factors representative of Ecoinvent 3.5 were used. The IPCC 2013 equivalence factors were applied. Scope 3 – category 6. Emissions related to business travel are excluded from the signi昀椀cant emission stream. Scope 3 – category 7. Emissions due to home-to-work commuting of personnel are not calculated and are excluded. Scope 3 – category 8. Emissions related to upstream leased assets are excluded from the signi昀椀cant emissions stream. Scope 3 – category 10. Processing of sold products is excluded from the signi昀椀cant emission stream."
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 359 Scope 3 – category 11. Regarding the use of banking/昀椀nancial services/products used by customers, the most relevant transactions were considered, distinguished by the channel used (internet banking/mobile banking), by type (payment/transfer) for the banks of the Group. To make the assessment, the following information was taken into consideration: average time and average electricity consumption for each operation, divided by type of device used. The operating time was estimated, while the average electricity consumption for mobile devices and PCs was derived from industry studies. The emission factors for electricity consumption are those used for the calculation of Scope 2. Scope 3 – category 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products is excluded from the signi昀椀cant emission stream. Scope 3 – category 13. The VUB Group has owned assets leased to third parties (properties classi昀椀ed as IAS 40). IAS 40 includes owned properties rented to third parties, which are not part of the Group's characteristic activity. For their accounting, speci昀椀c consumption data were used, where available, by applying the relevant emission coef昀椀cients, and in other cases, by applying intensity factors (Scope 1+2 CO2e/m2 location based) for buildings with operational control and applied to those leased to third parties, assuming these assets have similar unit emissions to those with operational control. As a result, assets held as investments in. Scope 3 – category 14. This category is excluded because the VUB Group does not operate franchises. Scope 3 – category 15. Please refer to the next chapter Financed Emissions. Overall, the percentage of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data, obtained from suppliers or other partners along the value chain, is 8.9% for all signi昀椀cant categories reported. For the 2024 昀椀nancial year, the percentage electricity purchased from renewable sources with methods other than contractual instruments used by the VUB Group with reference to GHG Scope 2 emissions was 32.55%. Financed Emissions No signi昀椀cant changes are reported regarding any effects of events and signi昀椀cant changes in circumstances (affecting GHG emissions) that have occurred between the reference date of this document and the reference dates of the entities included in the Group's value chain. Reporting boundaries for the 昀椀nanced emissions are only VUB Bank and their portfolio. Under Scope 3 category 15, emissions estimation of 昀椀nanced emissions is based on the PCAF standard. The methodology for individual calculations, along with exceptions such as unavailable data, is described below within the methodology for speci昀椀c portfolios. The calculation of 昀椀nanced emissions is based on the Bank’s activity data as of the date of the preparation of the annual report containing sustainability information, i.e., as of December 31. The Group has analysed the possibilities of disclosing the carbon footprint for assets under management under ESRS E1.44 and 51, the GHG standard and the PCAF methodology, and has not yet disclosed this part of the carbon footprint. 1. Housing loans According to the PCAF standard, this asset class includes balance sheet loans for speci昀椀c consumer purposes— speci昀椀cally for the purchase and re昀椀nancing of residential properties, including single-family homes and small multi- family housing units. Within the Bank’s portfolio, Loans to Households collateralized by residential immovable property were considered, as they account for a signi昀椀cant portion of total assets and 昀椀nanced emissions. 2. Government bonds Based on the World Development Indicators, data about GDP and CO2 emissions of the country where government bonds are assigned and the accounting price of investment in the banking book of VUB Bank were used. The 昀椀nal value of 昀椀nanced emissions for this asset class is calculated as the product of an attribution factor, expressed as the ratio of the book value of the security to the country’s GDP at purchasing power parity (PPP), and the country’s total emissions. This approach allows us to estimate the 昀椀nanced emissions associated with securities based on their proportional economic footprint within each country. 3. Exposure to non-昀椀nancial corporations Exposure from Loans and Advances, Debt securities and Equity of Non-昀椀nancial corporations within the banking book of the VUB Group were included. Emissions estimation is based on counterparty information and information on average emissions intensity by sector, in line with the methodology developed by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). The share of emission data coming from company speci昀椀c reporting is also disclosed. The following table shows the Financed emission (in tCO2e) expressed as Scope 3 category 15:"
"ESRS E1 – Climate Change 360 tCO2e Bank ́s investments mapped to asset classes according to the PCAF PCAF asset class Bank portfolio Amount of GHG (in tCO2e) % of GHG Scope 3 calculated using primary data Mortgages Housing loans 149,271.55 National debt Government bonds 300,041.87 Business loans, Exchange-traded shares and corporate bonds NFCs 3,055,632.01 10.2% GHG emissions intensity The table below provides net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity reconciling it with the balance sheet value. In calculating the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions, following formula was applied: total GHG emissions (tCO2e)/net revenues. Metric ton of CO2 equivalent per million EUR (tCO2e/€ million) 2024 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (according to the location-based method) per net revenue 2,767.58 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (according to the market-based method) per net revenue 2,767.01 The 'net revenue‘ to calculate intensity of GHG emissions amounts to 1,268 million EUR, and the de昀椀nition of 'net revenue‘ to calculate intensity of GHG emissions was chosen in accordance with the de昀椀nition of the directive on annual accounts and consolidated accounts of banks and other 昀椀nancial institutions. Speci昀椀cally, it considered the following items of the income statement: Interest income, Fees and commissions income, Dividend income, Net trading income (only positive components), Other operating income, and Share of the pro昀椀t or loss of investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method (only positive components). Internal carbon pricing Internal Carbon Pricing is a tool through which a company de昀椀nes a monetary value for GHG emissions and integrates it (de昀椀ned, in fact, price) into investment decisions and business operations. Speci昀椀cally, the adoption of an Internal Carbon Pricing system uses market mechanisms and transfers the cost of GHG emissions to the emitter, assigning a price to carbon dioxide emissions Although VUB Group does not currently use an Internal carbon pricing scheme it contributes to the Group's ICPS as part of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group."
"ESRS E3 – Water and marine resources 365 Due to the speci昀椀city of the VUB Group's core business and following in-depth studies with the dedicated structures, no material impacts have been identi昀椀ed. With reference to the upstream and downstream value chains, the concentration of exposures and suppliers that may present critical issues with respect to the topics in question is not signi昀椀cant. The Group is active in businesses focused on 昀椀nancing customers with the speci昀椀c aim of improving the management and ef昀椀ciency of the use of water resources, but these initiatives are currently marginally relevant with respect to the overall business and therefore not signi昀椀cant for the purposes of speci昀椀c disclosure in this document."
"366 ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems Materiality assessment process on impacts, risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems As described in the chapter ESRS2 – General information, Double materiality analysis, the VUB Group has conducted the double materiality analysis, i.e. an analysis of the main relevant sustainability issues, according to a dual perspective: – The impact materiality, which with an inside-out perspective takes into account the impacts of the VUB Group connected to the VUB Group's own operations and the relevant value chain upstream and downstream for the VUB Group, both positive and negative, actual or potential; – Financial materiality, which adopts an outside-in perspective considering sustainability issues that generate: o Risks that affect or may affect the development of the VUB Group, its financial and asset situation, the economic result, the financial flows, access to financing or the cost of capital in the short, medium or long term; o Opportunities that have, or that can be predicted to have, a significant financial impact on the VUB Group in the short, medium or long term. The impacts, risks and opportunities in the ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems are identi昀椀ed by taking into account the speci昀椀cities of the VUB Group. In particular, the mapping of such impacts, risks and opportunities was carried out on the basis of the context in which the VUB Group de昀椀nes and implements its business activities and relationships, the measures put in place by the VUB Group to promote and protect biodiversity and ecosystems, including through dedicated initiatives and projects as well as an assessment of the risks related to the biodiversity aspects to which the Group could be exposed. Speci昀椀c analyses were conducted to assess the VUB Group’s dependencies and impacts in terms of biodiversity, ecosystems and related services. In particular, for the purposes of impact materiality, the assessment of the identi昀椀ed impacts was conducted through interviews with dedicated internal structures and with expert stakeholders, including experts in environmental issues. This was complemented by a detailed qualitative-quantitative analysis, carried out on the basis of the criteria required by the reference legislation (i.e. scale, scope, irremediable nature and probability). In particular, with reference to: – Own operations: The assessment of impacts was carried out on the basis of qualitative drivers such as VUB Group internal policies and corporate strategies relating to this area (for example, combating climate change, excessive land exploitation, etc.); – Upstream value chain: The assessment of impacts was carried out through the analysis of the ESG Questionnaire collected by the VUB from suppliers and the related feedback provided by them on the matter; – Downstream value chain: An analysis was carried out on the indirect impacts conveyed through the exposures on the VUB Group's portfolios, in order to take into account the VUB Group's exposure to counterparties in sectors deemed to affect biodiversity, on the status of species, as well as on the extension and conditions of ecosystems. Furthermore, the definition of investment, financing criteria and strategies for the evaluation of counterparties was taken into consideration. Since all the VUB Group's premises are located in urban, already built on areas, and the VUB Group's operations are of administrative character, it has very limited direct impact of the existing biodiversity. Similarly, the dependency of VUB's operational perimeter on the ecosystem services does not exceed the general overall dependency on the natural resources and the environment. Therefore, no material impacts were identi昀椀ed. However, in 2025 the VUB Group is enhancing its operational rules and procedures for building operation, refurbishment, reconstruction or new construction, applying the safeguards and best practices for protection and improvement of the biodiversity and ecosystems in urban areas, aiming for a positive impact. For the purposes of determining 昀椀nancial materiality, the relevance of risks and opportunities was assessed using a dual approach, quantitative and qualitative, applied to the identi昀椀ed perimeters. With reference to risks, the following analyses were conducted: – Own operations: Considering the specific nature of the VUB Group’s core business, the fact that its offices are not located in protected areas or regions with high biodiversity, and based on in-depth analyses conducted by the relevant expert departments; – Upstream value chain: The reputational risk to which the Group is potentially exposed was assessed, in the event that it uses suppliers that adopt less structured safeguards with respect to biodiversity and ecosystems (for example, adoption of practices to mitigate the risk of environmental pollution with impact on biodiversity or definition of an environmental policy);"
"ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems 367 – Downstream value chain: Credit risk and market risk potentially arising from threats to biodiversity and the balance of the reference ecosystems were mainly considered. This could also determine elements of risk from a reputational perspective. The assessment results concluded that no risks were identi昀椀ed relating to the direct or indirect impact on the loss of biodiversity, the extension and conditions of ecosystems nor within its own operations nor within its upstream value chain perimeter. The Reputational Risk to which the Group is exposed if it resorts to suppliers who adopt less structured controls with reference to biodiversity and ecosystems has been assessed and evaluated as not material. The materiality analysis conducted for the standard in question, with reference to transition and physical risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems, relies on models and metrics that are still evolving, both in terms of methodology and standardization. In this regard, the development of reference methodological standards and the availability of increasingly granular and reliable data will enable further re昀椀nement of the materiality analysis and the incorporation of additional analytical elements. After performing the double materiality analysis, over all de昀椀ned time horizons, no material impacts, risks or opportunities related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems were identi昀椀ed. The VUB Group does not own or have an operational control over any relevant speci昀椀c sites of shared biological resources and ecosystems, raw materials production or sourcing that are near biodiversity-sensitive areas. Consequently, it does not engage in activities that negatively affect these areas or that may have negative or potential negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems or affected communities. VUB Group's assets are not classi昀椀ed as shared biological resources or ecosystems and, therefore, biodiversity mitigation measures are not considered relevant."
"368 ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy Materiality assessment process on impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular economy As described in the chapter ESRS 2 – General information, Materiality assessment, the VUB Group has conducted the double materiality assessment, i.e. an analysis of the main relevant sustainability issues, according to a dual perspective: – The impact materiality, which with an inside-out perspective takes into account the impacts of the VUB Group connected to the VUB Group's own operations and the relevant value chain upstream and downstream for the VUB Group, both positive and negative, actual or potential; – Financial materiality, which adopts an outside-in perspective considering sustainability issues that generate: o Risks that affect or may affect the development of the VUB Group, its financial and asset situation, the economic result, the financial flows, access to financing or the cost of capital in the short, medium or long term; o Opportunities that have, or that can be predicted to have, a significant financial impact on the VUB Group in the short, medium or long term. The impacts, risks, and opportunities within the scope of ESRS E5 – Use of resources and circular economy are identi昀椀ed considering the speci昀椀cities of the VUB Group. The mapping of such impacts, risks, and opportunities was carried out on the basis of the context in which the Group de昀椀nes and implements its business activities and relationships (for example, Environmental Policy of the VUB Group, Group Guidelines for Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Risks), the measures put in place by the VUB Group to contribute to the implementation of recycling systems and the use of recycled/recyclable materials, the renewal of partnerships related to this theme, in addition to an assessment of the risks related to circular economy aspects to which the VUB Group may be exposed. To support the analysis, consultations were conducted with retail consumers and the public through a dedicated representative survey, measuring the importance of these topics (sorting and recycling of own waste, reducing the use of plastics, packaging goods in recycled or recyclable packaging, supporting sustainable local production, reduction of paper correspondence and documentation, offering the option of purchasing goods without packaging and receipts and invoices in electronic rather than paper form). In addition, various scienti昀椀c and professional studies, reports and publications, especially Report on the State of the Environment of Slovak Republic in 2024 and enviroportal.sk have been analysed. For the purposes of impact materiality, the assessment of the identi昀椀ed impacts was conducted through interviews with the competent internal structures of the VUB Group and with expert stakeholders, including experts in environmental issues, as well as through a detailed qualitative-quantitative analysis, carried out on the basis of the criteria required by the reference legislation (i.e. scale, scope, irremediable nature of the impact and probability). In particular, with reference to: – Own operations: The assessment of impacts was carried out on the basis of qualitative drivers such as the definition by the VUB Group of internal policies and corporate strategies relating to this area (for example, recycling systems and use of recyclable / biodegradable materials); – Upstream value chain: Assessment of impacts was carried out through the analysis of a dedicated questionnaire submitted by the VUB Group to suppliers and the feedback provided by them on the matter; – Downstream value chain: An analysis was carried out on the indirect impacts conveyed through the exposures on the Group's portfolios, in order to take into account the VUB Group's exposure to counterparties/companies operating in sectors considered to have an impact from the point of view of the circular economy and the use of resources. Furthermore, the definition of investment/financing criteria/strategies for the evaluation of counterparties was taken into consideration. Following the analysis carried out, the following impact materiality outcomes emerged: with reference to the downstream value chain, signi昀椀cant positive impacts were identi昀椀ed through the adoption of 昀椀nancing/investment strategies and the offer of products attributable to these sustainability issues. No negative indirect impacts have been identi昀椀ed as attributable to exposures to counterparties operating in sectors identi昀椀ed as relevant, such as plastic manufacturing, electronics industry, the mining and extractive industries, chemical industry, agriculture, and construction and demolition. For the purposes of determining 昀椀nancial materiality, the relevance of risks and opportunities was assessed through a dual approach, quantitative and qualitative, applied to the identi昀椀ed perimeters."
"ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 369 With reference to risks, the following analyses were conducted: – Own operations: In consideration of the specificity of the VUB Group's core business and following in-depth analyses with the dedicated structures, no risks were identified relating to the topic of circular economy and use of resources; – Upstream value chain: The reputational risk to which the VUB Group is potentially exposed was mainly assessed, in the event that it uses suppliers who adopt less structured controls with respect to the topic in question (for example, lack of definition of an environmental policy); – Downstream value chain: The credit risk and the market risk potentially deriving from threats to the circular economy and the use of resources were mainly considered. This could also determine elements of risk from a reputational perspective. From the analyses conducted, for the purposes of 昀椀nancial materiality, signi昀椀cant reputational risks relating to waste management in the production process were identi昀椀ed, for both downstream and upstream value chain. With reference to the 昀椀nancial materiality of the opportunities, analyses were conducted mainly relating to the downstream value chain, taking into account the type of business of the VUB Group and the peculiarity of the 昀椀nancial activities. Analyses and evaluations of commercial opportunities were carried out in terms of 昀椀nancing of counterparties with the aim of improving their circular economy pro昀椀les and improving the ef昀椀ciency of production processes. Additionally, the possible presence of objectives and performance indicators related to the VUB Group's Strategy was considered. In light of the 昀椀nancial materiality analysis carried out, no signi昀椀cant opportunities emerged. Policies, actions and objectives related to resource use and circular economy Policies related to resource use and circular economy The circular economy policies of the VUB Group are in line with Intesa Sanpaolo Group's strategy, focusing on resource ef昀椀ciency, waste reduction, and value creation throughout the product life cycle. The goal is to facilitate the transition of businesses and territories to an inclusive circular economy, enhancing climate change mitigation, biodiversity restoration, and pollution reduction. This approach optimizes raw material use, regenerates natural resources, and fosters technological innovation, contributing to a sustainable, equitable, and resilient economic system. These policies cover all the VUB Group's activities, emphasizing internal resource management and 昀椀nancial support for circular business models, aligning with global sustainability trends and reducing resource price volatility risks. The Code of Ethics of the VUB Group integrates the principles of circular economy through environmental protection, support for the development of the country thanks to the ecological transition and the adoption of circular economy models, as well as through responsible management of indirect environmental impacts. Furthermore, the VUB Group adopted the following internal policies related to the circular economy in various areas: – In direct relation to the European Taxonomy, the Rules for the application of the European Taxonomy from a Green Asset Ratio (GAR) perspective, approved at Intesa Sanpaolo Group level and prepared in compliance with regulatory legislation, with the aim of outlining the rules necessary for the application of the EU Taxonomy and measurement of aligned economic activities with the fourth of the six environmental objectives set out in European legislation, namely ‘Transition to a circular economy’; – The Rules for the classification of sustainable credit products and lending transactions, which identifies a specific category in the field of environmental sustainability called ‘Ecological efficiency and circular economy’ assigned on the basis of the consistency of the credit transaction to a specific framework of five Circular Economy criteria, defined in collaboration with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF); – The ESG Scoring Rules outline how Intesa Sanpaolo Group and VUB Group evaluate the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance of its corporate clients, including SMEs that are often excluded from market ESG ratings. The ESG Score is used in key banking processes, such as: o Credit Risk Appetite Framework – defines the Bank’s willingness to take on risk for different customer categories; o Credit Strategies Framework – guides credit portfolio growth to balance risk and return over time. The ESG Score is a comprehensive rating based on multiple factors, including a speci昀椀c focus on the circular economy. – The Rules of operations, governing the waste hierarchy (prevention, preparing for re-use, recycling, other recovery, disposal), waste avoidance, minimization, separate collection and ways of disposal;"
"ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems 367 – Downstream value chain: Credit risk and market risk potentially arising from threats to biodiversity and the balance of the reference ecosystems were mainly considered. This could also determine elements of risk from a reputational perspective. The assessment results concluded that no risks were identi昀椀ed relating to the direct or indirect impact on the loss of biodiversity, the extension and conditions of ecosystems nor within its own operations nor within its upstream value chain perimeter. The Reputational Risk to which the Group is exposed if it resorts to suppliers who adopt less structured controls with reference to biodiversity and ecosystems has been assessed and evaluated as not material. The materiality analysis conducted for the standard in question, with reference to transition and physical risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems, relies on models and metrics that are still evolving, both in terms of methodology and standardization. In this regard, the development of reference methodological standards and the availability of increasingly granular and reliable data will enable further re昀椀nement of the materiality analysis and the incorporation of additional analytical elements. After performing the double materiality analysis, over all de昀椀ned time horizons, no material impacts, risks or opportunities related to Biodiversity and Ecosystems were identi昀椀ed. The VUB Group does not own or have an operational control over any relevant speci昀椀c sites of shared biological resources and ecosystems, raw materials production or sourcing that are near biodiversity-sensitive areas. Consequently, it does not engage in activities that negatively affect these areas or that may have negative or potential negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems or affected communities. VUB Group's assets are not classi昀椀ed as shared biological resources or ecosystems and, therefore, biodiversity mitigation measures are not considered relevant."
"368 ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy Materiality assessment process on impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular economy As described in the chapter ESRS 2 – General information, Materiality assessment, the VUB Group has conducted the double materiality assessment, i.e. an analysis of the main relevant sustainability issues, according to a dual perspective: – The impact materiality, which with an inside-out perspective takes into account the impacts of the VUB Group connected to the VUB Group's own operations and the relevant value chain upstream and downstream for the VUB Group, both positive and negative, actual or potential; – Financial materiality, which adopts an outside-in perspective considering sustainability issues that generate: o Risks that affect or may affect the development of the VUB Group, its financial and asset situation, the economic result, the financial flows, access to financing or the cost of capital in the short, medium or long term; o Opportunities that have, or that can be predicted to have, a significant financial impact on the VUB Group in the short, medium or long term. The impacts, risks, and opportunities within the scope of ESRS E5 – Use of resources and circular economy are identi昀椀ed considering the speci昀椀cities of the VUB Group. The mapping of such impacts, risks, and opportunities was carried out on the basis of the context in which the Group de昀椀nes and implements its business activities and relationships (for example, Environmental Policy of the VUB Group, Group Guidelines for Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Risks), the measures put in place by the VUB Group to contribute to the implementation of recycling systems and the use of recycled/recyclable materials, the renewal of partnerships related to this theme, in addition to an assessment of the risks related to circular economy aspects to which the VUB Group may be exposed. To support the analysis, consultations were conducted with retail consumers and the public through a dedicated representative survey, measuring the importance of these topics (sorting and recycling of own waste, reducing the use of plastics, packaging goods in recycled or recyclable packaging, supporting sustainable local production, reduction of paper correspondence and documentation, offering the option of purchasing goods without packaging and receipts and invoices in electronic rather than paper form). In addition, various scienti昀椀c and professional studies, reports and publications, especially Report on the State of the Environment of Slovak Republic in 2024 and enviroportal.sk have been analysed. For the purposes of impact materiality, the assessment of the identi昀椀ed impacts was conducted through interviews with the competent internal structures of the VUB Group and with expert stakeholders, including experts in environmental issues, as well as through a detailed qualitative-quantitative analysis, carried out on the basis of the criteria required by the reference legislation (i.e. scale, scope, irremediable nature of the impact and probability). In particular, with reference to: – Own operations: The assessment of impacts was carried out on the basis of qualitative drivers such as the definition by the VUB Group of internal policies and corporate strategies relating to this area (for example, recycling systems and use of recyclable / biodegradable materials); – Upstream value chain: Assessment of impacts was carried out through the analysis of a dedicated questionnaire submitted by the VUB Group to suppliers and the feedback provided by them on the matter; – Downstream value chain: An analysis was carried out on the indirect impacts conveyed through the exposures on the Group's portfolios, in order to take into account the VUB Group's exposure to counterparties/companies operating in sectors considered to have an impact from the point of view of the circular economy and the use of resources. Furthermore, the definition of investment/financing criteria/strategies for the evaluation of counterparties was taken into consideration. Following the analysis carried out, the following impact materiality outcomes emerged: with reference to the downstream value chain, signi昀椀cant positive impacts were identi昀椀ed through the adoption of 昀椀nancing/investment strategies and the offer of products attributable to these sustainability issues. No negative indirect impacts have been identi昀椀ed as attributable to exposures to counterparties operating in sectors identi昀椀ed as relevant, such as plastic manufacturing, electronics industry, the mining and extractive industries, chemical industry, agriculture, and construction and demolition. For the purposes of determining 昀椀nancial materiality, the relevance of risks and opportunities was assessed through a dual approach, quantitative and qualitative, applied to the identi昀椀ed perimeters."
"ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 369 With reference to risks, the following analyses were conducted: – Own operations: In consideration of the specificity of the VUB Group's core business and following in-depth analyses with the dedicated structures, no risks were identified relating to the topic of circular economy and use of resources; – Upstream value chain: The reputational risk to which the VUB Group is potentially exposed was mainly assessed, in the event that it uses suppliers who adopt less structured controls with respect to the topic in question (for example, lack of definition of an environmental policy); – Downstream value chain: The credit risk and the market risk potentially deriving from threats to the circular economy and the use of resources were mainly considered. This could also determine elements of risk from a reputational perspective. From the analyses conducted, for the purposes of 昀椀nancial materiality, signi昀椀cant reputational risks relating to waste management in the production process were identi昀椀ed, for both downstream and upstream value chain. With reference to the 昀椀nancial materiality of the opportunities, analyses were conducted mainly relating to the downstream value chain, taking into account the type of business of the VUB Group and the peculiarity of the 昀椀nancial activities. Analyses and evaluations of commercial opportunities were carried out in terms of 昀椀nancing of counterparties with the aim of improving their circular economy pro昀椀les and improving the ef昀椀ciency of production processes. Additionally, the possible presence of objectives and performance indicators related to the VUB Group's Strategy was considered. In light of the 昀椀nancial materiality analysis carried out, no signi昀椀cant opportunities emerged. Policies, actions and objectives related to resource use and circular economy Policies related to resource use and circular economy The circular economy policies of the VUB Group are in line with Intesa Sanpaolo Group's strategy, focusing on resource ef昀椀ciency, waste reduction, and value creation throughout the product life cycle. The goal is to facilitate the transition of businesses and territories to an inclusive circular economy, enhancing climate change mitigation, biodiversity restoration, and pollution reduction. This approach optimizes raw material use, regenerates natural resources, and fosters technological innovation, contributing to a sustainable, equitable, and resilient economic system. These policies cover all the VUB Group's activities, emphasizing internal resource management and 昀椀nancial support for circular business models, aligning with global sustainability trends and reducing resource price volatility risks. The Code of Ethics of the VUB Group integrates the principles of circular economy through environmental protection, support for the development of the country thanks to the ecological transition and the adoption of circular economy models, as well as through responsible management of indirect environmental impacts. Furthermore, the VUB Group adopted the following internal policies related to the circular economy in various areas: – In direct relation to the European Taxonomy, the Rules for the application of the European Taxonomy from a Green Asset Ratio (GAR) perspective, approved at Intesa Sanpaolo Group level and prepared in compliance with regulatory legislation, with the aim of outlining the rules necessary for the application of the EU Taxonomy and measurement of aligned economic activities with the fourth of the six environmental objectives set out in European legislation, namely ‘Transition to a circular economy’; – The Rules for the classification of sustainable credit products and lending transactions, which identifies a specific category in the field of environmental sustainability called ‘Ecological efficiency and circular economy’ assigned on the basis of the consistency of the credit transaction to a specific framework of five Circular Economy criteria, defined in collaboration with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF); – The ESG Scoring Rules outline how Intesa Sanpaolo Group and VUB Group evaluate the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance of its corporate clients, including SMEs that are often excluded from market ESG ratings. The ESG Score is used in key banking processes, such as: o Credit Risk Appetite Framework – defines the Bank’s willingness to take on risk for different customer categories; o Credit Strategies Framework – guides credit portfolio growth to balance risk and return over time. The ESG Score is a comprehensive rating based on multiple factors, including a speci昀椀c focus on the circular economy. – The Rules of operations, governing the waste hierarchy (prevention, preparing for re-use, recycling, other recovery, disposal), waste avoidance, minimization, separate collection and ways of disposal;"
"ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 370 – The Green Banking Procurement Rules, addressing transitioning away from extraction of virgin resources, including increases in use of secondary (recycled) resources, sustainable sourcing and use of renewable resources is the internal rules for green procurement aiming to pursue sustainability objectives, and identifying the best design solution, product or service, taking market availability into account. The Policies are available to relevant internal and external stakeholders through corporate communication channels, mainly via the Bank’s intranet and bilateral communication with the clients and suppliers. The VUB Group, as a part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, integrates the principles of circular economy into its policies within the credit process, based on speci昀椀c circular economy criteria established by parent company in collaboration with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, which relate to the circular framework. In this context, Small and Medium Enterprises Department of the VUB Bank, in cooperation with the relevant parent company structures, is responsible for expressing a technical assessment of the level of circularity and the level of eligibility for 昀椀nancing of the initiatives proposed by client companies. Speci昀椀cally, the eligibility criteria of the internal circular framework include: – Solutions that extend the useful life of the product or the use cycles of goods and materials (circular design activities; application of modular design; implementation of reverse logistics programs; repair and regeneration or reconditioning of products; use of product-as-service, pay-per-use and/or sharing economy models); – Procurement of secondary or sustainably sourced renewable resources and/or recycled material (including the use of renewable energy for self-consumption); – Solutions that significantly increase the efficiency of resource consumption, within the company or along its value chain (application of industrial symbiosis principles and creation of an integrated value chain that transforms waste into production inputs; implementation of cycle closure models and/or application of eco- design and systemic design principles; implementation of processes based on natural principles for the capture and storage of CO2 and/or the capture and use of CO2, to support the achievement of decarbonization and net- zero impact objectives); – Products that are totally reusable, recyclable or compostable, inserted in an efficient context of collection, separation and recovery after use; – Innovative technologies and activities that enable circular economy models (e.g. Internet of Things solutions for the implementation of traceability systems, reverse logistics and/or predictive maintenance; Big Data, Artificial Intelligence and Cloud Computing in order to dematerialize services and develop markets for raw and/or secondary materials; – Regenerative agriculture practices and/or hydroponic/aeroponic/precision agriculture technologies, to improve soil health, increase biodiversity, produce food close to the place of consumption and grow in unfavourable areas). It should be noted that at the moment, the internal framework does not appear to be completely superimposable on the criteria of the European Taxonomy on the Circular Economy and therefore the 昀椀nancing granted with this framework is not considered ’aligned’ with the criteria of the taxonomy for the purposes of calculating the Green Asset Ratio. Furthermore, in 2020 the VUB Bank has published the Green Manifest, which represents a pillar and inspiration for VUB Group's sustainable policies and strategies. In the Green Manifest, the VUB Group declared objective to support clients by offering banking products and services that promote sustainability, including 昀椀nancing for individuals and businesses focused on ecological innovations and circular economy initiatives. In addition to guaranteeing full and total compliance with legislative provisions for the protection of the environment, the VUB Group aims to identify innovative and effective solutions in this 昀椀eld, to apply the best environmental standards and to promote and develop the concept of environmental responsibility, with a commitment to translating the international principles to which the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Bank Group has adhered, particularly the UNEP Financial Institutions Declaration and the Global Compact of the United Nations, into concrete actions. The VUB Group is also open to dialogue and discussion with those stakeholders who represent the ’voice’ of environmental concerns and focus on energy consumption. The ESG Manager (Deputy CEO of VUB Bank), is responsible for overseeing and implementing sustainability policies, including policies referring to resources use and circular economy. The VUB Group guarantees transparency towards stakeholders, making the main policies available through the company's communication channels. Documents containing sensitive, strategic, or industrial information remain con昀椀dential."
"ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 371 Objectives related to resource use and circular economy The VUB Group, as part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, has con昀椀rmed its commitment to the circular economy by promoting the dissemination of this model, also availing itself of the support of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, the main supporter of the transition towards the circular economy. The Intesa Sanpaolo Group has been a Strategic Partner of the Foundation since 2015 and has collaborated with it for several years. The transition towards a circular economy is also pursued thanks to the contribution of the Intesa Sanpaolo Innovation Centre (ISPIC), an Intesa Sanpaolo Group company dedicated to frontier innovation and a centre of expertise in the circular economy, although no speci昀椀c quantitative objectives have been de昀椀ned. However, as detailed in the following paragraph, the VUB Group has highlighted a strong commitment to promoting circular economy practices, considered an integral part of the sustainability strategy. Actions related to resource use and circular economy As part of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group's 2022-2025 Business Plan, an additional EUR 8 billion credit plafond has been allocated to support businesses transitioning to a circular economy. This initiative renews and expands upon the previous commitment from the 2018-2021 Business Plan, highlighting the long-lasting and constant commitment to these issues. The VUB Group's transition to a circular economy is further supported through cooperation with the Intesa Sanpaolo Innovation Centre (ISPIC). VUB and ISPIC collaborate on identi昀椀cation of Slovak innovative companies in the area of circular economy and sustainability in order to provide them 昀椀nancial and non-昀椀nancial support and networking. The VUB Group supports circular economy practices by providing incentivized 昀椀nancing through ’VUB ENVIRO loan’ aimed at 昀椀nancing of projects that support the circular economy. The loan is 昀椀nanced by above mentioned credit plafond (CE and Green plafond) created by Intesa Sanpaolo through which corporate clients, including local governments, can get an investment loan at a preferential interest rate if their project meets these criteria: – Solutions that extend product life; – Utilization of renewable or recycled sources; – Increase in efficiency and effectiveness of resource consumption; – Optimisation of efficiency and effectiveness of resource consumption; – Products that can be completely recycled or composted; – Innovative technologies that enable circular business models. The VUB Group is dedicated to promoting and supporting the circular economy through speci昀椀c awareness-raising initiatives (ATLAS Talks), partnerships (Circular Slovakia), and business cooperations (Sustainable E-shop with VISA and Heureka.sk). A project Sustainable E-shop (Udržateľný e-shop) was launched in 2023 in collaboration with Heureka and Visa to help e-shops operate sustainably and reduce their overall environmental footprint. E-shops are encouraged to adopt circular practices such as zero waste packaging, climate-neutral delivery, supporting local suppliers, and thorough recycling of all waste. E-Shops can earn a sustainability label on Heureka.sk by passing questionnaire inspection designed in line with ESG principles by the Association for Social Responsibility and reviewed by the Institute of Circular Economy in Slovakia. The project Sustainable E-shop (Udržateľný e-shop) also helps consumers make more informed and conscious purchasing decisions by highlighting sustainable e-shops. The action culminated in the ’Shop of the Year’ competition, where the ’Sustainable E-shop Award’ was introduced. For more details, visit www.udrzatelnyeshop.sk. The VUB Group promotes the circular economy by organizing the VUB Atlas Fórum, focusing on 昀椀nancing green projects, ESG strategies, and sustainable development. The forum discusses current trends, legislative challenges, and the role of banks and investors in supporting ecological initiatives. Additionally, the Bank became an implementation partner of Slovakia's 昀椀rst Circular Summit, highlighting the potential of the circular economy for micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises, emphasizing the ecological and economic bene昀椀ts of ef昀椀cient resource management. To promote and disseminate the circular economy paradigm, online sessions were organized throughout the year dedicated to the relationship managers of the Bank, with the aim of supporting customers in the transition process towards a sustainable and circular economy, also through the sharing of best practices at VUB Group level. The efforts of VUB Group in its own operation not only promote circular economy but also foster a culture of sustainability among its stakeholders. Forums and summits organized by the VUB Group facilitate knowledge sharing and highlight economic bene昀椀ts of the circular economy, sharing sustainable practices in both the upstream and downstream value chain."

--- Elisa_AnnualReport_2024 ---
"Physical climate risks for Elisa’s operations In line with climate hazards, we do not estimate the physical climate risks to be significant for Elisa’s operations in the short term. However, we anticipate potential effects of physical climate risks for our own operations over the longer term. Physical climate risks, description and its management Physical risk type Description Management Acute Acute risks would likely be caused by storms (including blizzards, dust storms and sandstorms) especially effecting Elisa’s data centres and network operations in Finland and Estonia. Reliable power supply is of utmost importance for Elisa’s data centre and network operations, which are located at thousands of sites all across Finland and Estonia. Extreme weather events, such as forest fires, storms and floods, can potentially cause power outages or physical damage. Elisa has a societal obligation to provide reliable connectivity services, and interruptions can lead to loss of income as well as loss reputational damage, so we take measures to handle situations with, for example, base station towers. An increase in extreme weather events could result in higher costs related to personnel and broken equipment. Elisa utilises a comprehensive real-time system for monitoring and rapidly identifying network disturbances. Also, in the planning phase, we already aim to mitigate risks related to physical infrastructure. Additionally, Elisa acts in close collaboration with necessary stakeholders, such as electricity distribution companies in the event of power outages. Joint development, redundant power systems, exercises with stakeholders, as well as insurance or other agreements, are examples of pre-emptively managing risks. Chronic Chronic risks would likely be caused by the effects of rising average temperatures, especially in the Northern Hemisphere, where Elisa’s network and data centre business is located. Correct operating temperatures for equipment are important to avoid any technical failures and related service disruptions, so rising average temperatures might increase operating costs for cooling. The effects on Elisa’s international operations in digital services outside of Northern Europe mainly concern office premises, which might be affected mainly by increased costs for air conditioning. Ensuring sufficient cooling, especially for mobile network base stations and data centres, will, over time, require higher investments in cooling solutions for equipment and increase operating costs. The effects on employee health of rising average temperatures and related heatwaves should also be considered. Frequent heatwaves might increase direct operating costs due to higher energy costs and maintenance requirements, but the magnitude of the impact is estimated to be low. To mitigate these effects, we work continuously to improve energy efficiency and the design of the facilities, and we collaborate with procurement and with suppliers accordingly. 61 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Transitional climate risks for Elisa’s operations We have identified the following transitional risks in Elisa’s main markets in Northern Europe, over short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons: Transitional climate risks, description and its management Risk type Description Management Increasing costs due to markets, regulations, and energy taxes. Elisa has addressed energy risks as part of its strategy since 2009, and it mitigates these risks by continuous improvements in energy efficiency and using carbon-free electricity. EU legislation can also be a key driver for increased energy efficiency through carbon taxation mechanisms. Elisa's main markets are in the EU (Finland and Estonia), which may see further requirements to both cut and compensate for emissions through new taxes or more comprehensive and higher carbon pricing. If these developments are realised, they will have an impact on Elisa’s operational costs through higher energy prices, carbon taxes, and voluntary (or even mandatory) compensation. A carbon tax might also affect the costs of purchased goods and services when suppliers try to cover their own development costs. Elisa has been proactively improving energy efficiency in its mobile networks, data centres, telefacilities and other premises for over a decade. The energy consumption of networks constitutes over 90 percent of Elisa's total energy consumption. At the same time, it is expected that Elisa’s energy consumption will grow, despite energy efficiency measures, due to increased data usage. Elisa has been using carbon-free electricity since 2014. Centralised energy procurement improves effectiveness and value, for instance through our ten-year wind farm power purchasing agreement. Stakeholders expecting concrete actions from the ICT industry Extreme events caused by climate change are increasing environmental awareness among Elisa's stakeholders in general. Both employees and customers expect Elisa to deliver high performance in sustainability and environmental responsibility. We see increasing interest among customers, investors and authorities in the environmental performance of companies, and we aim for a high level of commitment and transparency. Elisa keeps up a transparent climate dialogue with essential stakeholders, as confusion about sustainability issues among consumers might lead to less demand for existing products. Digitalisation requires well-functioning network infrastructure that runs on electricity, as well as devices that are manufactured from raw materials, and Elisa is actively promoting resource efficiency in these areas. Dependency on value chain commitment to climate targets Elisa is dependent on a complex value chain, including in climate transition. An overwhelming part of Elisa’s environmental impact comes through indirect supply chain GHG emissions, where devices and equipment that are needed to use and provide our services are manufactured. Equipment-related emissions are generated in Elisa’s upstream supply chain, more specifically in Scope 3 from the categories Purchased goods and services and Capital goods. Elisa's stakeholder groups expect high performance in environmental sustainability, and they increasingly demand transparent climate reporting; however, many suppliers do not yet have the readiness to support this through life-cycle assessments of the products and services they provided. Furthermore, increased product development needs might create pressure for suppliers to increase prices to recoup their investment. To achieve Elisa's ambitious near- and long-term climate transition targets, we have raised awareness and engaged with key suppliers around climate change mitigation. Naturally, also stakeholders in direct operations and downstream in the value chain must be closely involved in such efforts. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Climate change adaptation and energy-related opportunities Climate change has been part of Elisa’s strategy, since 2009. Our experience enables us to help our customers in creation of a more sustainable future through digitalisation. We see opportunities in tackling climate challenges by developing new business innovations in sustainability. For instance, our International Digital Services is built on our expertise in automation and digitalisation. Elisa offers an IoT platform with advanced machine learning and predictive analysis capabilities. This technology can be used also to better manage energy efficiency and other relevant parameters of buildings. Furthermore, Elisa’s AI-driven software helps ramp up production quickly and sustainably by identifying issues and optimising energy use. Our Distributed Energy Solution (DES) transforms radio access networks into virtual power plants, using AI to efficiently manage energy by controlling the charging and discharging of batteries. DES also has the capability of providing grid-balancing services to transmission system operators (TSOs). This helps in addressing the challenges posed by renewable energy sources. In Finland, Elisa utilises DES to participate in the automatic Frequency Restoration Reserve, providing grid-balancing services to Fingrid, the national TSO. Transition plan for climate change mitigation Elisa has committed to the Paris Agreement to keep global warming to 1.5°C. In 2023, we received approval from the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) for Elisa’s updated near-term science-based target, and we are the first listed company in Finland to set a long-term net-zero target. On our ambitious journey towards Net-zero in 2040, we are currently focusing on Elisa’s 2030 near-term climate target of a 42 percent absolute reduction in GHG emissions in all our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions compared to the base year of 2021. We publicly share a high-level overview of Elisa’s climate transition planning on our website. Elisa’s climate targets are reviewed by Elisa’s BOD and approved by CEB. These targets have been communicated to internal and external stakeholders. The Elisa Climate Transition Plan (CTP) is a roadmap towards low carbon business in Elisa’s own operations as well as its chain of activities. Through CTP and more concrete Climate Transition Action Plan (CTAP), we drive our ambitious near-term and long- term climate targets. This takes a long-term commitment of continuous improvement in carbon emission reduction and creates the foundation for climate actions over the three-year strategy period for 2025–2027. The CTP is integrated to Elisa’s environmental management system (EMS) and energy management system (EnMS). Scope 1 and 2 emissions are responsible for about 1percent of Elisa’s total carbon emissions, resulting Scope 3 emission to be 99 percent and thus having the material impact. From Scope 3 emissions, our own operations (waste generated, business travel and employee commuting) result in only 2 percent while the remaining are from Elisa’s value chain. Therefore, supply chain engagement and collaboration are crucial to drive our climate targets and keep within planetary boundaries. In 2024, Elisa launched its responsible supplier financing, which is a working capital financing solution offered by Elisa together with its finance partner. Material efficiency is enabled mainly through circular economy solutions. To reduce the amount of waste in our operations, we repair, refurbish and reuse when feasible, and we responsibly recycle equipment at the end of its lifespan. We also offer device repair and refurbishment services to our customers, as well as specific circular economy business models, like devices-as-a-service. Energy efficiency has been part of our operational development and monitored on a strategic level since 2009. By the end of 2024, we had improved our energy efficiency in mobile data transfers by 71percent since 2016. Similarly, Elisa’s carbon footprint from Scope 1 and 2 emissions had decreased by more than 80 percent compared to 2016. In some cases, we have been able to productise innovations that we have created to address energy efficiency in our own operations, making them part of the sustainable solutions we offer to customers. Energy efficiency initiatives throughout Elisa’s operations receive substantial continuous investments i.e. through modernisation. Also, Elisa’s first circular economy initiatives, in the form of building repair and refurbishment capabilities, have received significant investments. The latter is also reported according to EU Taxonomy regulations. Elisa does not have a high-emissions infrastructure as we use only carbon-free electricity for our telecom networks and data centres. Elisa thus has very few assets with locked-in GHG emissions other than backup power generators, which use fossil fuels but are difficult to phase out due to regulatory resilience requirements. In Elisa’s annual strategy process, the results of the double materiality assessment are utilised to identify the environme­ ntal issues important to the business. The strategic sustaina­ bility targets are part of Elisa’s high-level strategic action plan (Key Means), each owned by a designated member of CEB. These members, along with the appointed strategy leads, are responsible for ensuring that the necessary actions, goals, and resources are in place to achieve the targets within the agreed timelines. This approach ensures ownership, delegation, sufficient resources for implementation, and regular monitoring of the strategic action plan’s execution that support the target. The strategy owners and leads are responsible for reporting on performance to the relevant Elisa stakeholders. In Elisa’s annual strategy process, the environ­ mental issues important to the business are reviewed. CRMB approves EMS as well as monitors and guides the CTAP. Elisa’s relevant businesses are responsible for setting adequate actions according to CTAP. EMS development and CTAP follow up is maintained by domain experts in the Elisa Environment and Energy Working Group (EEWG). The EEWG tracks progress in implementing the CTAP, as part of the regular management of both the EMS and EnMS. The CRMB reviews the performance regularly. 63 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"64 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment 2010 2020 2030 2040 Elisa’s own emissions Scale of graph is only indicative​ 300,000 tCO2eq Upstream (supply chain) and downstream (customer) activities Elisa is committed to reducing absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by 42 percent from the base year 2021 by 2030. Elisa is committed to reducing absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by 90 percent from the base year 2021 by 2040. Zero Waste 2030 Climate transition plan “Business as usual” scenario for supply chain emissions"
"65 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment Climate Transition Action Plan (CTAP) Reporting year 2024 emissions 2021 base year and emission change since Scope 3 Suppliers’ actions TBD Scope 3 Suppliers’ SBTi targets Scope 3 Use of sold products Scope 3 EOL of sold products Scope 3 From energy production Scope 3 Elisa’s own operations Scope 2 Elisa’s own operations Scope 1 Elisa’s own operations Despite company acquisitions, technology investments and increasing purchases of products and services, emissions have stabilised to the level of 2021 Elisa is committed to reducing absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by 42 percent from the base year 2021 by 2030 Suppliers’ own climate targets and their fulfillment are crucial Supplier engagement and joint targets Setting policies for green procurement Adopting circular processes and business models Supplier data required to better evaluate use phase with electricity emissions factors for Elisa’s markets instead of global averages Recycling targets Creating awareness among customers Weigh in renewable energy production from emissions​ Zero waste target for 2030​ Encouraging green commuting​ and business travel Internal carbon tax for business travel​ Continuing work on energy efficiency Adopting green coding principles broadly Eliminating fossil fuels throughout operations​ tCO2eq 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 -42% by 2030"
"Proportion of OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities - disclosure covering year 2024 Financial Year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm) Minimum Safe- guards Proportion of Taxonomy aligned or eligible OpEx (%), 2023 Category (enabling activity) Category (transitional activity) Economic activities Code(s) OpEx (MEUR) Proportion of OpEx (%), 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water and marine resources Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water and marine resources Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Text Currency % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1.Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Electricity generation using solar photovolatic technology CCM 4.1 0.0 0.0% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A Y N/A N/A Y Y Y 0.0% Storage of electricity CCM 4.10 0.0 0.0% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A Y Y N/A Y Y Y 0.0% E Production of heat/cool using waste heat CCM 4.25 0.0 0.0% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A Y N/A Y Y Y Y 0.0% Data processing, hosting and related activities CCM 8.1 0.0 0.0% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A Y Y N/A Y N/A Y 0.0% T Programming and broadcasting activities CCA 8.3 0.5 0.4% N/EL Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Y 0.4% E OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 0.5 0.4% 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% N/A Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0% Of which Enabling 0.5 0.4% 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% N/A Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.4% E Of which Transitional 0.0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% N/A Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0% T A.2.Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL Installation and operation of electric heat pumps CCM 4.16 0.0 0.0% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0% Production of heat/cool from geothermal energy CCM 4.22 0.0 0.0% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0% Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing CE 5.1 0.0 0.0% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL EL N/EL 0.0% Product as a service and other circular use- and result-oriented service models CE 5.5 0.0 0.0% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL EL N/EL 0.0% Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles CCM 6.5 0.0 0.0% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0% OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 0.0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% A. OpEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 0.5 0.4% 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% B: TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 117.8 99.6% Total (A+B) 118.3 100.0% 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Taxonomy eligible and aligned turnover per environmental objective in 2024 Turnover Proportion of turnover / Total turnover Taxonomy-aligned per objective (%) Taxonomy-eligible per objective (%) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 0.7 0.9 Climate change adaptation (CCA) 7.3 0.0 Water and marine resources (WTR) 0.0 0.0 Circular economy (CE) 0.0 1.7 Pollution prevention and control (PPC) 0.0 0.0 Biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO) 0.0 0.0 Taxonomy eligible and aligned CapEx per environmental objective in 2024 CapEx Proportion of CapEx / Total CapEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective (%) Taxonomy-eligible per objective (%) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 2.0 2.8 Climate change adaptation (CCA) 1.3 0.0 Water and marine resources (WTR) 0.0 0.0 Circular economy (CE) 0.0 0.0 Pollution prevention and control (PPC) 0.0 0.0 Biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO) 0.0 0.0 Taxonomy eligible and aligned OpEx per environmental objective in 2024 OpEx Proportion of OpEx/Total OpEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective (%) Taxonomy-eligible per objective (%) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 0.0 0.0 Climate change adaptation (CCA) 0.4 0.0 Water and marine resources (WTR) 0.0 0.0 Circular economy (CE) 0.0 0.0 Pollution prevention and control (PPC) 0.0 0.0 Biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO) 0.0 0.0 Annex VII Template 1. Nuclear and fossil gas related activities Row Nuclear energy related activities 1. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. No 2. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. No 3. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. No Fossil gas related activities 4. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. No 5. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. No 6. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels. No 59 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS E1 Climate change Policies Elisa has set Group-level policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation. The Elisa Code of Conduct sets the foundation for our ethical business behaviour. Elisa’s Environmental Policy describes our commitment to reducing the environmental impact of our business in our own operations and chain of activities. Similarly, Elisa’s Energy Policy describes our goal to sustainably improving energy performance. Additionally, Elisa Code of Ethical Purchasing describes the ethical and legal duties and responsibilities of our suppliers. Elisa complies with all applicable environmental and climate legislation and regulations and requires all the stakeholders in its operations and chain of activities to similarly comply with them. Elisa’s Environmental and Energy Policy adhere to the principles and reporting guidelines of the CSRD, the UN Global Compact, and the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), aligned with the goals of the Paris Agreement. These policies are approved by Elisa’s Corporate Responsibility Management Board (CRMB). These policies are publicly available and accessible applying to every employee in Elisa and all third parties acting on behalf of Elisa. We require our suppliers, subcontractors, and external partners to comply with these or similar principles. The policies provide clear guidance on responsible practices and outlines commitments and strategies for achieving envi­ ronmental sustainability and addressing climate change within Elisa’s global operations. It addresses Elisa’s commitment to climate change mitigation and adaptation, energy and resource efficiency, and circularity. Through sustainable actions and the development of innovative solutions, Elisa aims to significantly reduce both its own carbon footprint and those of its customers. Our approach As a part of double materiality assessment (DMA), Elisa has evaluated impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change. The material negative impacts lie both in our upstream supply chain and in our own operations. Elisa’s previous climate scenarios work was utilised as part of our DMA, and it is addressed while creating financial statements. Through this work, Elisa has identified physical and transitional climate risks, which pose impacts for Elisa’s operations over different time horizons. Climate change resilience analysis has been conducted for the whole Elisa group of companies and key supplier categories. In the analysis, we assess which of Elisa’s locations of operation have physical climate change vulnerabilities. For such identified locations, we further assess the risks and potential impacts, on which we base the development of strategies for mitigation and adaptation. Our climate change resilience analysis was revisited in 2024. When conducting our resilience analysis, we identify factors that apply to Elisa’s operations over the short, medium and long term. Based on our resilience analysis locations of operation in Elisa’s main markets in Northern Europe will not be signifi­ cantly affected by climate change in the short term. We have identified that Elisa has operations in areas with, for example, water scarcity vulnerabilities. Drought does not have direct impact on Elisa’s operations in short term. We use resilience analysis findings in Elisa’s Climate Transition Plan, to ensure alignment with related strategic and tactical actions across the organisation. It also has implications to financial planning. Elisa’s dependencies on the value chain, and especially the supply chain and its performance in climate transition, impacts on risks and, to some degree, on opportunities, as well as our corporate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As an organisation, we are continuing our work on mitigating global warming by reducing our carbon footprint, to ensure actions for target of a 1.5°C global average temperature rise, while simultaneously adapting operations for a scenario of up to 3°C. We already see that regulation is a key driver of ambitious environmental targets for European companies, not only for climate, but also in aligning with planetary boundaries overall. We aim for solid, longer-term strategies that integrate sustainability with Elisa’s digital business operations, enabling us to respond to emerging issues in an increasingly complex and unpredictable world. For the same reasons, we are continuing to experiment to drive rapid learning and innovation. Potential climate-related hazards in Elisa’s operations We have identified the following climate-related hazards in Elisa’s main markets in Northern Europe, over short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons: Short term (0–2 years) • Extreme weather events, such as severe winter storms • Flooding of vulnerable locations during heavy rainfall • Wildfires becoming more intense and frequent Medium term (3–5 years) • Longer heatwaves and extreme temperature events • Increased precipitation and seasonally heavy rainfall Long term (over 5 years) • Droughts becoming more frequent and prolonged • Rising sea levels, leading to coastal erosion and flooding 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Physical climate risks for Elisa’s operations In line with climate hazards, we do not estimate the physical climate risks to be significant for Elisa’s operations in the short term. However, we anticipate potential effects of physical climate risks for our own operations over the longer term. Physical climate risks, description and its management Physical risk type Description Management Acute Acute risks would likely be caused by storms (including blizzards, dust storms and sandstorms) especially effecting Elisa’s data centres and network operations in Finland and Estonia. Reliable power supply is of utmost importance for Elisa’s data centre and network operations, which are located at thousands of sites all across Finland and Estonia. Extreme weather events, such as forest fires, storms and floods, can potentially cause power outages or physical damage. Elisa has a societal obligation to provide reliable connectivity services, and interruptions can lead to loss of income as well as loss reputational damage, so we take measures to handle situations with, for example, base station towers. An increase in extreme weather events could result in higher costs related to personnel and broken equipment. Elisa utilises a comprehensive real-time system for monitoring and rapidly identifying network disturbances. Also, in the planning phase, we already aim to mitigate risks related to physical infrastructure. Additionally, Elisa acts in close collaboration with necessary stakeholders, such as electricity distribution companies in the event of power outages. Joint development, redundant power systems, exercises with stakeholders, as well as insurance or other agreements, are examples of pre-emptively managing risks. Chronic Chronic risks would likely be caused by the effects of rising average temperatures, especially in the Northern Hemisphere, where Elisa’s network and data centre business is located. Correct operating temperatures for equipment are important to avoid any technical failures and related service disruptions, so rising average temperatures might increase operating costs for cooling. The effects on Elisa’s international operations in digital services outside of Northern Europe mainly concern office premises, which might be affected mainly by increased costs for air conditioning. Ensuring sufficient cooling, especially for mobile network base stations and data centres, will, over time, require higher investments in cooling solutions for equipment and increase operating costs. The effects on employee health of rising average temperatures and related heatwaves should also be considered. Frequent heatwaves might increase direct operating costs due to higher energy costs and maintenance requirements, but the magnitude of the impact is estimated to be low. To mitigate these effects, we work continuously to improve energy efficiency and the design of the facilities, and we collaborate with procurement and with suppliers accordingly. 61 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Transitional climate risks for Elisa’s operations We have identified the following transitional risks in Elisa’s main markets in Northern Europe, over short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons: Transitional climate risks, description and its management Risk type Description Management Increasing costs due to markets, regulations, and energy taxes. Elisa has addressed energy risks as part of its strategy since 2009, and it mitigates these risks by continuous improvements in energy efficiency and using carbon-free electricity. EU legislation can also be a key driver for increased energy efficiency through carbon taxation mechanisms. Elisa's main markets are in the EU (Finland and Estonia), which may see further requirements to both cut and compensate for emissions through new taxes or more comprehensive and higher carbon pricing. If these developments are realised, they will have an impact on Elisa’s operational costs through higher energy prices, carbon taxes, and voluntary (or even mandatory) compensation. A carbon tax might also affect the costs of purchased goods and services when suppliers try to cover their own development costs. Elisa has been proactively improving energy efficiency in its mobile networks, data centres, telefacilities and other premises for over a decade. The energy consumption of networks constitutes over 90 percent of Elisa's total energy consumption. At the same time, it is expected that Elisa’s energy consumption will grow, despite energy efficiency measures, due to increased data usage. Elisa has been using carbon-free electricity since 2014. Centralised energy procurement improves effectiveness and value, for instance through our ten-year wind farm power purchasing agreement. Stakeholders expecting concrete actions from the ICT industry Extreme events caused by climate change are increasing environmental awareness among Elisa's stakeholders in general. Both employees and customers expect Elisa to deliver high performance in sustainability and environmental responsibility. We see increasing interest among customers, investors and authorities in the environmental performance of companies, and we aim for a high level of commitment and transparency. Elisa keeps up a transparent climate dialogue with essential stakeholders, as confusion about sustainability issues among consumers might lead to less demand for existing products. Digitalisation requires well-functioning network infrastructure that runs on electricity, as well as devices that are manufactured from raw materials, and Elisa is actively promoting resource efficiency in these areas. Dependency on value chain commitment to climate targets Elisa is dependent on a complex value chain, including in climate transition. An overwhelming part of Elisa’s environmental impact comes through indirect supply chain GHG emissions, where devices and equipment that are needed to use and provide our services are manufactured. Equipment-related emissions are generated in Elisa’s upstream supply chain, more specifically in Scope 3 from the categories Purchased goods and services and Capital goods. Elisa's stakeholder groups expect high performance in environmental sustainability, and they increasingly demand transparent climate reporting; however, many suppliers do not yet have the readiness to support this through life-cycle assessments of the products and services they provided. Furthermore, increased product development needs might create pressure for suppliers to increase prices to recoup their investment. To achieve Elisa's ambitious near- and long-term climate transition targets, we have raised awareness and engaged with key suppliers around climate change mitigation. Naturally, also stakeholders in direct operations and downstream in the value chain must be closely involved in such efforts. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Proportion of OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities - disclosure covering year 2024 Financial Year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm) Minimum Safe- guards Proportion of Taxonomy aligned or eligible OpEx (%), 2023 Category (enabling activity) Category (transitional activity) Economic activities Code(s) OpEx (MEUR) Proportion of OpEx (%), 2024 Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water and marine resources Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Climate change mitigation Climate change adaptation Water and marine resources Pollution Circular economy Biodiversity and ecosystems Text Currency % Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y; N; N/EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1.Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Electricity generation using solar photovolatic technology CCM 4.1 0.0 0.0% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A Y N/A N/A Y Y Y 0.0% Storage of electricity CCM 4.10 0.0 0.0% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A Y Y N/A Y Y Y 0.0% E Production of heat/cool using waste heat CCM 4.25 0.0 0.0% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A Y N/A Y Y Y Y 0.0% Data processing, hosting and related activities CCM 8.1 0.0 0.0% Y N N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A Y Y N/A Y N/A Y 0.0% T Programming and broadcasting activities CCA 8.3 0.5 0.4% N/EL Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Y 0.4% E OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 0.5 0.4% 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% N/A Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0% Of which Enabling 0.5 0.4% 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% N/A Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.4% E Of which Transitional 0.0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% N/A Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0% T A.2.Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL EL; N/EL Installation and operation of electric heat pumps CCM 4.16 0.0 0.0% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0% Production of heat/cool from geothermal energy CCM 4.22 0.0 0.0% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0% Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing CE 5.1 0.0 0.0% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL EL N/EL 0.0% Product as a service and other circular use- and result-oriented service models CE 5.5 0.0 0.0% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL EL N/EL 0.0% Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles CCM 6.5 0.0 0.0% EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0% OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 0.0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% A. OpEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 0.5 0.4% 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% B: TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 117.8 99.6% Total (A+B) 118.3 100.0% 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Taxonomy eligible and aligned turnover per environmental objective in 2024 Turnover Proportion of turnover / Total turnover Taxonomy-aligned per objective (%) Taxonomy-eligible per objective (%) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 0.7 0.9 Climate change adaptation (CCA) 7.3 0.0 Water and marine resources (WTR) 0.0 0.0 Circular economy (CE) 0.0 1.7 Pollution prevention and control (PPC) 0.0 0.0 Biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO) 0.0 0.0 Taxonomy eligible and aligned CapEx per environmental objective in 2024 CapEx Proportion of CapEx / Total CapEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective (%) Taxonomy-eligible per objective (%) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 2.0 2.8 Climate change adaptation (CCA) 1.3 0.0 Water and marine resources (WTR) 0.0 0.0 Circular economy (CE) 0.0 0.0 Pollution prevention and control (PPC) 0.0 0.0 Biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO) 0.0 0.0 Taxonomy eligible and aligned OpEx per environmental objective in 2024 OpEx Proportion of OpEx/Total OpEx Taxonomy-aligned per objective (%) Taxonomy-eligible per objective (%) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 0.0 0.0 Climate change adaptation (CCA) 0.4 0.0 Water and marine resources (WTR) 0.0 0.0 Circular economy (CE) 0.0 0.0 Pollution prevention and control (PPC) 0.0 0.0 Biodiversity and ecosystems (BIO) 0.0 0.0 Annex VII Template 1. Nuclear and fossil gas related activities Row Nuclear energy related activities 1. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. No 2. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. No 3. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. No Fossil gas related activities 4. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. No 5. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. No 6. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels. No 59 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS E1 Climate change Policies Elisa has set Group-level policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation. The Elisa Code of Conduct sets the foundation for our ethical business behaviour. Elisa’s Environmental Policy describes our commitment to reducing the environmental impact of our business in our own operations and chain of activities. Similarly, Elisa’s Energy Policy describes our goal to sustainably improving energy performance. Additionally, Elisa Code of Ethical Purchasing describes the ethical and legal duties and responsibilities of our suppliers. Elisa complies with all applicable environmental and climate legislation and regulations and requires all the stakeholders in its operations and chain of activities to similarly comply with them. Elisa’s Environmental and Energy Policy adhere to the principles and reporting guidelines of the CSRD, the UN Global Compact, and the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), aligned with the goals of the Paris Agreement. These policies are approved by Elisa’s Corporate Responsibility Management Board (CRMB). These policies are publicly available and accessible applying to every employee in Elisa and all third parties acting on behalf of Elisa. We require our suppliers, subcontractors, and external partners to comply with these or similar principles. The policies provide clear guidance on responsible practices and outlines commitments and strategies for achieving envi­ ronmental sustainability and addressing climate change within Elisa’s global operations. It addresses Elisa’s commitment to climate change mitigation and adaptation, energy and resource efficiency, and circularity. Through sustainable actions and the development of innovative solutions, Elisa aims to significantly reduce both its own carbon footprint and those of its customers. Our approach As a part of double materiality assessment (DMA), Elisa has evaluated impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change. The material negative impacts lie both in our upstream supply chain and in our own operations. Elisa’s previous climate scenarios work was utilised as part of our DMA, and it is addressed while creating financial statements. Through this work, Elisa has identified physical and transitional climate risks, which pose impacts for Elisa’s operations over different time horizons. Climate change resilience analysis has been conducted for the whole Elisa group of companies and key supplier categories. In the analysis, we assess which of Elisa’s locations of operation have physical climate change vulnerabilities. For such identified locations, we further assess the risks and potential impacts, on which we base the development of strategies for mitigation and adaptation. Our climate change resilience analysis was revisited in 2024. When conducting our resilience analysis, we identify factors that apply to Elisa’s operations over the short, medium and long term. Based on our resilience analysis locations of operation in Elisa’s main markets in Northern Europe will not be signifi­ cantly affected by climate change in the short term. We have identified that Elisa has operations in areas with, for example, water scarcity vulnerabilities. Drought does not have direct impact on Elisa’s operations in short term. We use resilience analysis findings in Elisa’s Climate Transition Plan, to ensure alignment with related strategic and tactical actions across the organisation. It also has implications to financial planning. Elisa’s dependencies on the value chain, and especially the supply chain and its performance in climate transition, impacts on risks and, to some degree, on opportunities, as well as our corporate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As an organisation, we are continuing our work on mitigating global warming by reducing our carbon footprint, to ensure actions for target of a 1.5°C global average temperature rise, while simultaneously adapting operations for a scenario of up to 3°C. We already see that regulation is a key driver of ambitious environmental targets for European companies, not only for climate, but also in aligning with planetary boundaries overall. We aim for solid, longer-term strategies that integrate sustainability with Elisa’s digital business operations, enabling us to respond to emerging issues in an increasingly complex and unpredictable world. For the same reasons, we are continuing to experiment to drive rapid learning and innovation. Potential climate-related hazards in Elisa’s operations We have identified the following climate-related hazards in Elisa’s main markets in Northern Europe, over short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons: Short term (0–2 years) • Extreme weather events, such as severe winter storms • Flooding of vulnerable locations during heavy rainfall • Wildfires becoming more intense and frequent Medium term (3–5 years) • Longer heatwaves and extreme temperature events • Increased precipitation and seasonally heavy rainfall Long term (over 5 years) • Droughts becoming more frequent and prolonged • Rising sea levels, leading to coastal erosion and flooding 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Physical climate risks for Elisa’s operations In line with climate hazards, we do not estimate the physical climate risks to be significant for Elisa’s operations in the short term. However, we anticipate potential effects of physical climate risks for our own operations over the longer term. Physical climate risks, description and its management Physical risk type Description Management Acute Acute risks would likely be caused by storms (including blizzards, dust storms and sandstorms) especially effecting Elisa’s data centres and network operations in Finland and Estonia. Reliable power supply is of utmost importance for Elisa’s data centre and network operations, which are located at thousands of sites all across Finland and Estonia. Extreme weather events, such as forest fires, storms and floods, can potentially cause power outages or physical damage. Elisa has a societal obligation to provide reliable connectivity services, and interruptions can lead to loss of income as well as loss reputational damage, so we take measures to handle situations with, for example, base station towers. An increase in extreme weather events could result in higher costs related to personnel and broken equipment. Elisa utilises a comprehensive real-time system for monitoring and rapidly identifying network disturbances. Also, in the planning phase, we already aim to mitigate risks related to physical infrastructure. Additionally, Elisa acts in close collaboration with necessary stakeholders, such as electricity distribution companies in the event of power outages. Joint development, redundant power systems, exercises with stakeholders, as well as insurance or other agreements, are examples of pre-emptively managing risks. Chronic Chronic risks would likely be caused by the effects of rising average temperatures, especially in the Northern Hemisphere, where Elisa’s network and data centre business is located. Correct operating temperatures for equipment are important to avoid any technical failures and related service disruptions, so rising average temperatures might increase operating costs for cooling. The effects on Elisa’s international operations in digital services outside of Northern Europe mainly concern office premises, which might be affected mainly by increased costs for air conditioning. Ensuring sufficient cooling, especially for mobile network base stations and data centres, will, over time, require higher investments in cooling solutions for equipment and increase operating costs. The effects on employee health of rising average temperatures and related heatwaves should also be considered. Frequent heatwaves might increase direct operating costs due to higher energy costs and maintenance requirements, but the magnitude of the impact is estimated to be low. To mitigate these effects, we work continuously to improve energy efficiency and the design of the facilities, and we collaborate with procurement and with suppliers accordingly. 61 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Transitional climate risks for Elisa’s operations We have identified the following transitional risks in Elisa’s main markets in Northern Europe, over short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons: Transitional climate risks, description and its management Risk type Description Management Increasing costs due to markets, regulations, and energy taxes. Elisa has addressed energy risks as part of its strategy since 2009, and it mitigates these risks by continuous improvements in energy efficiency and using carbon-free electricity. EU legislation can also be a key driver for increased energy efficiency through carbon taxation mechanisms. Elisa's main markets are in the EU (Finland and Estonia), which may see further requirements to both cut and compensate for emissions through new taxes or more comprehensive and higher carbon pricing. If these developments are realised, they will have an impact on Elisa’s operational costs through higher energy prices, carbon taxes, and voluntary (or even mandatory) compensation. A carbon tax might also affect the costs of purchased goods and services when suppliers try to cover their own development costs. Elisa has been proactively improving energy efficiency in its mobile networks, data centres, telefacilities and other premises for over a decade. The energy consumption of networks constitutes over 90 percent of Elisa's total energy consumption. At the same time, it is expected that Elisa’s energy consumption will grow, despite energy efficiency measures, due to increased data usage. Elisa has been using carbon-free electricity since 2014. Centralised energy procurement improves effectiveness and value, for instance through our ten-year wind farm power purchasing agreement. Stakeholders expecting concrete actions from the ICT industry Extreme events caused by climate change are increasing environmental awareness among Elisa's stakeholders in general. Both employees and customers expect Elisa to deliver high performance in sustainability and environmental responsibility. We see increasing interest among customers, investors and authorities in the environmental performance of companies, and we aim for a high level of commitment and transparency. Elisa keeps up a transparent climate dialogue with essential stakeholders, as confusion about sustainability issues among consumers might lead to less demand for existing products. Digitalisation requires well-functioning network infrastructure that runs on electricity, as well as devices that are manufactured from raw materials, and Elisa is actively promoting resource efficiency in these areas. Dependency on value chain commitment to climate targets Elisa is dependent on a complex value chain, including in climate transition. An overwhelming part of Elisa’s environmental impact comes through indirect supply chain GHG emissions, where devices and equipment that are needed to use and provide our services are manufactured. Equipment-related emissions are generated in Elisa’s upstream supply chain, more specifically in Scope 3 from the categories Purchased goods and services and Capital goods. Elisa's stakeholder groups expect high performance in environmental sustainability, and they increasingly demand transparent climate reporting; however, many suppliers do not yet have the readiness to support this through life-cycle assessments of the products and services they provided. Furthermore, increased product development needs might create pressure for suppliers to increase prices to recoup their investment. To achieve Elisa's ambitious near- and long-term climate transition targets, we have raised awareness and engaged with key suppliers around climate change mitigation. Naturally, also stakeholders in direct operations and downstream in the value chain must be closely involved in such efforts. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"65 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment Climate Transition Action Plan (CTAP) Reporting year 2024 emissions 2021 base year and emission change since Scope 3 Suppliers’ actions TBD Scope 3 Suppliers’ SBTi targets Scope 3 Use of sold products Scope 3 EOL of sold products Scope 3 From energy production Scope 3 Elisa’s own operations Scope 2 Elisa’s own operations Scope 1 Elisa’s own operations Despite company acquisitions, technology investments and increasing purchases of products and services, emissions have stabilised to the level of 2021 Elisa is committed to reducing absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by 42 percent from the base year 2021 by 2030 Suppliers’ own climate targets and their fulfillment are crucial Supplier engagement and joint targets Setting policies for green procurement Adopting circular processes and business models Supplier data required to better evaluate use phase with electricity emissions factors for Elisa’s markets instead of global averages Recycling targets Creating awareness among customers Weigh in renewable energy production from emissions​ Zero waste target for 2030​ Encouraging green commuting​ and business travel Internal carbon tax for business travel​ Continuing work on energy efficiency Adopting green coding principles broadly Eliminating fossil fuels throughout operations​ tCO2eq 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 -42% by 2030"
"Targets, actions and performance in 2024 Target Description Performance Near-term climate target for 2030 In its near-term climate target for 2030, Elisa is committed to reducing absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 42 percent from the base year 2021. We will achieve this without using carbon credits or mitigation beyond the value chain. 1.8 percent decrease in the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions compared to the base year 2021. Net-zero target for 2040 In its long-term climate target for 2040, Elisa is committed to reducing absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 90 percent from the base year 2021. We will prioritise decarbonisation through direct emissions reductions, and all residual emissions will be neutralised in line with SBTi criteria before reaching net-zero emissions in 2040. Sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes We have defined how climate-related considerations are factored into incentives and remuneration for members of administrative, management and supervisory bodies. Incorporating carbon emission reduction targets to remune­ ration shows the importance of both executive and employee roles in achieving Elisa’s ambitious climate targets and other environmental commitments. Executives in supervisory bodies and employees in management and administrative bodies have important roles in achieving Elisa’s ambitious climate targets and other environmental commitments. Elisa’s climate targets are aligned with science based (SBTi) carbon emission reduction targets. The 2024 terms of Elisa’s employee fund included carbon dioxide reduction targets. The CEO’s short-term incentive plan for 2024 had an ESG goal focused on reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Additionally, we set a climate goal in the long-term incentive program, targeting the CEO, executive team members, and selected key personnel. This practically means reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 7 percent annually towards Elisa’s science-based short-term climate targets, aiming for a 42 percent reduction by 2030 from the 2021 baseline. For further information on the integration of sustainability-re­ lated performance in incentive schemes, see the section Sustainability governance. Elisa has committed to the Paris Agreement to keep global warming to 1.5°C. Elisa has set group-level science-based climate targets that are approved by the SBTi. On our journey towards Net-zero in 2040, we are currently focusing on our 2030 near-term climate target of 42 percent absolute reductions in all Scope 1, 2 and 3. The baseline for the targets is 2021. These two group-level targets are aligned with our Environmental policy where we have pledged to manage the material negative environmental impacts and risks of our operations. We have engaged the internal stakeholder in setting the targets. The total Scope 3 emissions were still on a slightly upward trend at the end of 2024 compared to the base year, 2021. The largest emissions contributor are purchased goods and services, and capital goods. This shows the urgency of having focus on upstream value chain. Therefore, in the following years, we will continue to intensify our actions in the value chain to reduce the carbon emissions. 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Scope 3 (45.8% of total GHG reductions) Science-based climate targets of suppliers: • Climate targets of suppliers (58% of Scope 3, 26.8% of total GHG reductions) • Reuse of capital infrastructure (0.4% of Scope 3, 0.2% of total GHG reductions) Use of sold products: • Energy policy engagement and renewable infrastructure (20% of Scope 3, 9.1% of total GHG reductions) End-of-life of sold products: • Repair and refurbishment of devices (10% of Scope 3, 4.8% of total GHG reductions) Energy production: • Extra GoOs and switch to wind or solar GoOs (7% of Scope 3, 3.3% of total GHG reductions) Own operations: • Policy-based (4% of Scope 3, 1.7% of total GHG reductions) We have assessed that energy-related levers have low to medium complexity and medium-level continued investments. Upstream value chain collaboration-related levers are of medium to high complexity that require medium- to high-level cumulative investments until 2030. Some of the climate transition levers described above are EU Taxonomy-eligible activities (as supplemented by Commission Delegated Regulations 2021/2139 and 2021/2178), being related to data centres (marked as heat pump modernisation and disclosed in Taxonomy under activity CCM 4.16 Installation and operation of electric heat pumps), distributed energy storage (included in internal innovation quadrant in the above matrix and disclosed in Taxonomy under CCM 4.10 Storage of electricity) and Climate Transition Plan (CTP) levers and their estimated financial and climate impact We have categorised our decarbonization lever categories and estimated their expected GHG emission reductions in 2030 (in percent of total GHG reduction effect of all levers): Scope 1 (1.7% of total GHG reductions) Elisa’s own operations: • Heat pump modernisation (42% of Scope 1, 0.7% of total GHG reductions) • Renewable heating (38% of Scope 1, 0.7% of total GHG reductions) • District heating (20% of Scope 1, 0.3% of total GHG reductions) Scope 2 (52.5% of total GHG reductions) Elisa’s own operations: • Guarantees of origin (GoOs) (85% of Scope 2, 44.8% of total GHG reductions) • Power purchase agreements (12% of Scope 2, 6.3% of total GHG reductions) • Modernisation and optimisation (2% of Scope 2, 0.8% of total GHG reductions) • Data centre heat recovery (1% of Scope 2, 0.5% of total GHG reductions) 67 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment Low complexity Medium complexity High complexity INVESTMENT QUICK WINS COLLABORATION INTERNAL INNOVATION Energy Guarantees of Origin (GoOs) Additional measures in solar and wind power Repair and refurbishment Long-term power purchasing agreements (PPAs) Heat pump moderisation Renewable heating District heating measures Policies Data centre heat recovery Low Medium High Reuse of capital infrastructure Action plan impacts Modernisation and optimisation Climate targets of suppliers Cumulative costs or savings, 2024-2030 Cost Saving Revenue Reduction size (2030, tCO2eq) >100,000 ~30,000 ~5,000"
"device circularity (marked as repair and refurbishment and disclosed in Taxonomy under CE 5.1 Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing). The related capital expenditure data is reported in the EU Taxonomy section of this statement, and it is also included in the table below of significant capital and operational expenditures required for implementation of Elisa’s CTAP. For Elisa, the related capital expenditures are typically investments in energy efficiency of telecom infrastructure, and operational expenditures are, for example, carbon-free energy acquisition through Guarantees of Origin or Power Purchasing Agreements. These examples of expenditures are already part of well-established processes of continuous improvement in Elisa’s operations. Other areas are less mature, for example mitigation of risks from dependencies on supplier performance against their own climate targets, which can require additional resources in, for example, supplier engagement with incentives, setting policies that might result in price increases, and scaling up opportunities in the circular economy. We are still forming our understanding and approach in this area, and therefore we are not yet providing financial estimates of capital or operational expenditures for such planned actions. We see three clusters of levers in Elisa’s climate transition planning – energy, supply chain, and circular economy. These are aligned with and contribute to objectives of related policies and guidelines of Elisa, especially in the areas of environmental, energy and procurement. Specific levers, such as energy efficiency improvements in mobile networks or energy attribute certificates, consist of various actions taken during the reporting year, in different parts and geographies of the Elisa group or its value chain or with other stakehol­ ders. The key actions, summarised in the table, are mostly efforts of continuous improvement over several years, but they are all expected to have an outcome that contribute to the achievement of Elisa’s near-term climate targets in 2030. We have for the above list so far not recognised significant harm that is caused to external stakeholders from actions based on our climate transition planning but will evaluate remedy actions if such cases emerge. We ensure consistency between climate transition targets and GHG inventory boundaries, meaning that relevant emission sources are accounted for in our reporting. This is accomp­ lished by clearly establishing organisational boundaries for Elisa’s GHG inventory, including relevant regions, facilities, assets and activities. We apply consistent methodologies and, increasingly, automation in calculating GHG emissions on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. Additionally, we ensure that the continuous development of methodology is transpa­ rently documented, and that data is retroactively corrected, Financial resources allocated to the Climate Transition Action Plan in 2024 Instruments Climate actions, with scope and time horizons CapEx [mEUR] OpEx [mEUR] Energy efficiency Improvements in mobile and fixed networks, for example through modernisation of 4G and 5G, as well as transforming fixed legacy networks with the latest technology. Improvements in premises and data centres, for example through modernisation in cooling, optimisation, cloudification, automation, as well as in continuous development and operation of properties. New innovations and development of solutions, for example by using machine learning and AI, distributed energy storage, smart meters, as well as implementing and developing green coding. The key actions above, are development efforts that span over several years, mainly in Elisa’s telecom network operations on the home markets of Finland and Estonia. Scope 1 and 2 emission reductions of these actions often show already within the reporting year, but usually have a long-term impact. 136 1 Other climate actions Energy generation in own direct operations, energy attribute certificates and agreements, supplier engagement for material efficiency, as well as research and beyond value chain mitigation. The key actions above, are development efforts that span over several years, and cover operations in different parts and geographies of the Elisa group or its value chain. Scope 3 emission reductions of these actions increasingly show towards Elisa’s near-term climate targets in 2030, while Scope 1 and 2 emission reductions are usually immediate. 0 3 if necessary. We have built a robust ESG data management system for the management and reporting of GHG emissions, and we have developed capabilities for scenario analyses of various emission reduction lever impacts. It is important to engage with suppliers, in particular, to drive a level of transparency that is necessary for an increasingly granular analysis of Elisa’s GHG inventory. Elisa’s first near-term target was approved by the SBTi in 2018 and was updated in 2023, including setting a new base year of 2021. Past progress made in meeting climate targets before this is available from Elisa’s annual reports. The baseline values set are based on Elisa’s assured and publicly available ESG reporting. Elisa’s international expansion poses some degree of challenge regarding this baseline, as new company acquisitions increase the boundaries of our GHG inventory to some degree. Baseline values are adjusted at the latest in updated target-setting every five years, according to SBTi guidelines. The related calculation methodology ensures that such targets remain compatible with global warming of 1.5°C. Through our double-materiality assessment (DMA), we, for example, identify parameters in Elisa’s contextual environment that can highly affect operations. We conduct structured analyses of, for example, technology-related roadmaps, Elisa’s competitors, and various other market factors, provided by our market intelligence experts. We continuously engage with stakeholders that are either impacted by our operations or have an impact on business strategy or operations, such as customers, employees, investors, regulators and suppliers. We also acknowledge the important perspectives of, for instance brought up by local communities and NGOs. Our scenario analysis accounts for both physical and transitional risks, based on various information sources. In addition to climate scenarios for geographical areas of our 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"operations, we analyse climate extremes and future changes in climate over the next three decades. We have utilised information sources and tools that consider climate chan­ ge-related factors that are the most relevant for our operations including flooding, severe storms and wildfire hazards. We also cover the susceptibility of society to climate change. According to this analysis, both Finland and Estonia have relatively low climate change exposures and vulnerabilities, but some of our international offices have higher risks in some areas. GHG removal and mitigation projects Elisa’s long-term goals (Net-zero 2040) allow us, in accordance with the recommendation of the SBTi initiative, to use only removal-type carbon credit projects for neutralisation of carbon emissions. This means that, at most, 10 percent of emissions at that point can be covered by carbon removal through carbon credits. We prioritise abatement within our value chain, and we are continuously investigating ways to reduce carbon emissions together with various stakeholders. We are currently focused on our near-term, science-based target for 2030, with a 42 percent reduction in all scopes of emissions. We will not use carbon credits for near-term target. Elisa is nevertheless already investing in additional mitigation actions beyond the near- and long-term science-based targets. Currently, Elisa has not developed any projects in its own operations or value chain for GHG emission removal or storage, but as part of Elisa’s CTP, we are exploring oppor­ tunities in this area. However, Elisa adopted the practice of beyond-value-chain mitigation already in 2020, with the scope of annually acquiring carbon credits in an amount equal to the remaining emissions in our own operations, meaning from fuels (Scope 1) and a small portion of other energy usage (Scope 2), as well as from waste and from business travel and employee commuting, including remote working (Scope 3). Beyond-value-chain mitigation thus comprises a valuable aspect in building the sustainable service offering that Elisa provides to its customers. Our selected carbon credit projects also have co-benefits for people and nature. Over time, Elisa has built a carbon credit portfolio with a variety of high-quality projects of different types and on different continents, according to the following motivations: • Mitigate risks with a well-balanced portfolio • Predictability for high-quality carbon credits • Benefit financially from strategic procurement • Adress Elisa’s geographical value chain impacts • Test and learn about available opportunities to support our transition When reviewing, deciding, and procuring carbon credits, we do due diligence as follows: • Additionality: The project reduces carbon emissions that are not reduced through other initiatives. • Leakage prevention: Emission reductions from the project do not leak to other locations or activities. • Permanence: The project permanently prevents the carbon emissions from entering the atmosphere. • Verifiability: An objective third party confirms that emission reductions from the project are credible. • Other risk assessment: The project e.g. avoids very high-risk countries. Elisa purchased carbon credits from projects that are of high quality, verified by standard bodies like Gold Standard and Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The methodologies of these standards ensure accurate quantification and verification for various mitigation technologies and processes. To further lessen risks in the quality of carbon credits, we do additional vetting to the extent possible together with selected partners. We follow developments in methodologies and actively engage in dialogue with providers and other experts or stakeholders, to continuously develop Elisa’s carbon credit portfolio. 69 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"operations, we analyse climate extremes and future changes in climate over the next three decades. We have utilised information sources and tools that consider climate chan­ ge-related factors that are the most relevant for our operations including flooding, severe storms and wildfire hazards. We also cover the susceptibility of society to climate change. According to this analysis, both Finland and Estonia have relatively low climate change exposures and vulnerabilities, but some of our international offices have higher risks in some areas. GHG removal and mitigation projects Elisa’s long-term goals (Net-zero 2040) allow us, in accordance with the recommendation of the SBTi initiative, to use only removal-type carbon credit projects for neutralisation of carbon emissions. This means that, at most, 10 percent of emissions at that point can be covered by carbon removal through carbon credits. We prioritise abatement within our value chain, and we are continuously investigating ways to reduce carbon emissions together with various stakeholders. We are currently focused on our near-term, science-based target for 2030, with a 42 percent reduction in all scopes of emissions. We will not use carbon credits for near-term target. Elisa is nevertheless already investing in additional mitigation actions beyond the near- and long-term science-based targets. Currently, Elisa has not developed any projects in its own operations or value chain for GHG emission removal or storage, but as part of Elisa’s CTP, we are exploring oppor­ tunities in this area. However, Elisa adopted the practice of beyond-value-chain mitigation already in 2020, with the scope of annually acquiring carbon credits in an amount equal to the remaining emissions in our own operations, meaning from fuels (Scope 1) and a small portion of other energy usage (Scope 2), as well as from waste and from business travel and employee commuting, including remote working (Scope 3). Beyond-value-chain mitigation thus comprises a valuable aspect in building the sustainable service offering that Elisa provides to its customers. Our selected carbon credit projects also have co-benefits for people and nature. Over time, Elisa has built a carbon credit portfolio with a variety of high-quality projects of different types and on different continents, according to the following motivations: • Mitigate risks with a well-balanced portfolio • Predictability for high-quality carbon credits • Benefit financially from strategic procurement • Adress Elisa’s geographical value chain impacts • Test and learn about available opportunities to support our transition When reviewing, deciding, and procuring carbon credits, we do due diligence as follows: • Additionality: The project reduces carbon emissions that are not reduced through other initiatives. • Leakage prevention: Emission reductions from the project do not leak to other locations or activities. • Permanence: The project permanently prevents the carbon emissions from entering the atmosphere. • Verifiability: An objective third party confirms that emission reductions from the project are credible. • Other risk assessment: The project e.g. avoids very high-risk countries. Elisa purchased carbon credits from projects that are of high quality, verified by standard bodies like Gold Standard and Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The methodologies of these standards ensure accurate quantification and verification for various mitigation technologies and processes. To further lessen risks in the quality of carbon credits, we do additional vetting to the extent possible together with selected partners. We follow developments in methodologies and actively engage in dialogue with providers and other experts or stakeholders, to continuously develop Elisa’s carbon credit portfolio. 69 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Carbon credit portfolio in 2024 Project name Project type Short project description Quality standard and project ID American BioCarbon biochar (USA) Removal (Oxford Category 5) Technical carbon sink American BioCarbon produces biochar in Louisiana, USA, making beneficial use of agricultural waste from the sugar cane industry (bagasse). Alongside pure carbon removal benefits, the project also produces clean energy as well as biochar, which can be used as a soil amendment. By taking an abundant, biogenic waste material and converting it to biochar, carbon dioxide is locked out of the atmosphere. Puro.earth Puro-543800 San Jerónimo Coatlán (Mexico) Removal (Oxford Category 4) Biogenic carbon sink San Jerónimo Coatlán is a rural and partly indigenous community located in the south of Oaxaca, Mexico. The land is communally owned, and for the last 20 years the community has forests communally to produce pine and oak wood. The project enables the community to invest in forest restoration and reforestation, as well as maintain a forestry ranger service to control wildfires and plagues and invest in social projects to improve health and water access for the population. Climate Action Reserve CAR1829 Borneo peatlands (Indonesia) Reduction (Oxford Category 2) Indonesian Borneo (Kalimantan) encompasses approximately 5.7 million hectares of peatland. The project is protecting and restoring 149,800 hectares of peatland ecosystems, covering one of Indonesia’s largest remaining intact peat swamp forests, and is reforesting 4,433 hectares of non-forest areas within the project area. The project also protects wildlife and improves livelihoods for the community located in the area. Verified Carbon Standard VCS 1477 Keio Seima (Cambodia) Reduction (Oxford Category 2) The Seima Protection Forest covers 292,690 hectares and is located in eastern Cambodia, mainly in Mondulkiri Province, with a small area extending into Kratie Province. The REDD project area covers 166,983 hectares of forest. The project is an Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) project under the Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) project category. The project also protects wildlife and improves livelihoods for the community located in the area. Verified Carbon Standard VCS 1650 Rimba Raya (Indonesia) Reduction (Oxford Category 2) The project protects the Rimba Raya area in south-eastern Borneo, Indonesia from deforestation. For decades, Borneo has been suffering from deforestation, and its remaining rainforests are threatened with disappearance due to logging (including illegal logging), mineral mining and palm oil production. The reserve covers 64,000 hectares and provides a habitat for hundreds of species, including the endangered Bornean orangutan. Verified Carbon Standard VCS 674 Elisa’s portfolio for beyond-value-chain mitigation currently consists of both reduction and removal projects. As described below, Elisa’s active carbon credit portfolio, from which cancellations have been done for the reporting year, included removal-type projects from Oxford Category 4 (forest restoration/reforestation) and Category 5 (biochar), together with reduction-type projects: We see additional value also in innovation and dialogue directly with project developers and are for example supporting initiatives such as solar cooker systems for village communities in Zambia and mangrove plantations in Indonesia and the Philippines. We transparently describe all carbon credit projects in our portfolio, their cancellations, and related climate and other benefits, further on Elisa’s sustainability webpages. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Carbon credits cancelled Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Comparative (2023) N (2024) Total amount of carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year (tCO2eq) 11,101 6,800 Share from removal projects (%) 4 16 Share from reduction projects (%) 96 84 Verified Carbon Standard (%) 96 84 Puro.earth (%) 1 1 Gold Standard (%) 3 0 Climate Action Reserve (%) 0 15 Share from projects within the EU (%) 1 0 Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments (%) 0 0 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Amount until (2040) Total (tCO2eq) We have so far purchased carbon credits on the voluntary carbon market, and do not have contractual agreements that extend over several years. We expect to continue cancelling carbon credits in an amount equal to the remaining emissions in our own direct operations and increasingly prepare towards the neutralisation phase also after 2040. Energy consumption and mix Total energy consumption in 2024 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products (MWh) 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products (MWh) 4,018 Fuel consumption from natural gas (MWh) 33 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources (MWh) 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from fossil sources (MWh) 11,959 Total fossil energy consumption (MWh) 16,010 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (%) 4 Consumption from nuclear sources (MWh) 239,847 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption (%) 66 Fuel consumption for renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) (MWh) 17 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from renewable sources (MWh) 109,382 Consumption of self-generated, non-fuel renewable energy (MWh) 50 Total renewable energy consumption (MWh) 109,449 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (%) 30 Total energy consumption (MWh) 365,306 Total energy production in 2024 Total energy produced (MWh) 6,565 Total renewable energy produced (MWh) 6,565 71 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Contractual instruments used in 2024 Share of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of Energy bundled with attributes about Energy generation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions (%) 30.9 Types of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of Energy bundled with attributes about Energy generation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions Power Purchasing Agreements (PPA) and Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) Share of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of unbundled Energy attribute claims in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions (%) 69.1 Types of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of Energy for unbundled Energy attribute claims in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions Guarantees of Origin (GoO) and REC As part of Elisa’s Sustainability Linked Loan, we have committed to ensure carbon-free electricity sourcing in Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As. Carbon-free electricity is an electrical energy produced from resources that generate no carbon emissions. In 2024, 100 percent of carbon-free electricity is used in Elisa group including Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As is from carbon-free sources covered through GoOs, own production, own installations and wind PPA. Energy intensity based on net revenue in 2024 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors (MWh/EUR) 0.0002 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year (2021) Comparative (2023) N (2024) % N/N-1 2025 2030 2040 Annual % target (2030)/ base year (2021) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 5,927 4,084 925 22.7 860 3,438 593 5 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 53,510 63,047 44,025 69.8 40,943 31,036 5,351 5 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 2,328 1,595 1,432 89.8 1,332 1,350 233 5 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 238,961 268,877 240,458 89.4 223,626 138,597 23,896 5 (1) Purchased goods and services 140,994 146,646 124,520 84.9 115,803 81,777 14,099 5 (2) Capital goods 40,669 36,219 30,085 83.1 27,979 23,588 4,067 5 (3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 24,483 28,201 29,819 105.7 27,731 14,200 2,448 5 (4) Upstream transportation and distribution 257 451 280 62.0 260 149 26 5 (5) Waste generated in operations 425 673 517 76.9 481 247 43 5 (6) Business travel 406 2,233 1,358 60.8 1,263 235 41 5 (7) Employee commuting 1,736 1,987 1,896 95.4 1,764 1,007 174 5 (8) Upstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (9) Downstream transportation N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (10) Processing of sold products N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (11) Use of sold products 28,959 49,512 49,289 99.5 45,839 16,796 2,896 5 (12) End-of-life treatment of sold products 1,032 2,955 2,694 91.2 2,505 599 103 5 (13) Downstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (14) Franchises N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (15) Investments N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) (tCO2eq) 298,398 336,009 285,408 265,429 173,071 29,840 5 Total GHG emissions (market-based) (tCO2eq) 247,216 274,556 242,815 225,818 143,385 24,722 5 73 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Carbon credits cancelled Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Comparative (2023) N (2024) Total amount of carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year (tCO2eq) 11,101 6,800 Share from removal projects (%) 4 16 Share from reduction projects (%) 96 84 Verified Carbon Standard (%) 96 84 Puro.earth (%) 1 1 Gold Standard (%) 3 0 Climate Action Reserve (%) 0 15 Share from projects within the EU (%) 1 0 Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments (%) 0 0 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Amount until (2040) Total (tCO2eq) We have so far purchased carbon credits on the voluntary carbon market, and do not have contractual agreements that extend over several years. We expect to continue cancelling carbon credits in an amount equal to the remaining emissions in our own direct operations and increasingly prepare towards the neutralisation phase also after 2040. Energy consumption and mix Total energy consumption in 2024 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products (MWh) 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products (MWh) 4,018 Fuel consumption from natural gas (MWh) 33 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources (MWh) 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from fossil sources (MWh) 11,959 Total fossil energy consumption (MWh) 16,010 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (%) 4 Consumption from nuclear sources (MWh) 239,847 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption (%) 66 Fuel consumption for renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) (MWh) 17 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from renewable sources (MWh) 109,382 Consumption of self-generated, non-fuel renewable energy (MWh) 50 Total renewable energy consumption (MWh) 109,449 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (%) 30 Total energy consumption (MWh) 365,306 Total energy production in 2024 Total energy produced (MWh) 6,565 Total renewable energy produced (MWh) 6,565 71 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Contractual instruments used in 2024 Share of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of Energy bundled with attributes about Energy generation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions (%) 30.9 Types of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of Energy bundled with attributes about Energy generation in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions Power Purchasing Agreements (PPA) and Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) Share of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of unbundled Energy attribute claims in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions (%) 69.1 Types of contractual instruments used for sale and purchase of Energy for unbundled Energy attribute claims in relation to Scope 2 GHG emissions Guarantees of Origin (GoO) and REC As part of Elisa’s Sustainability Linked Loan, we have committed to ensure carbon-free electricity sourcing in Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As. Carbon-free electricity is an electrical energy produced from resources that generate no carbon emissions. In 2024, 100 percent of carbon-free electricity is used in Elisa group including Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As is from carbon-free sources covered through GoOs, own production, own installations and wind PPA. Energy intensity based on net revenue in 2024 Total energy consumption from activities in high climate impact sectors per net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors (MWh/EUR) 0.0002 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year (2021) Comparative (2023) N (2024) % N/N-1 2025 2030 2040 Annual % target (2030)/ base year (2021) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 5,927 4,084 925 22.7 860 3,438 593 5 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 53,510 63,047 44,025 69.8 40,943 31,036 5,351 5 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 2,328 1,595 1,432 89.8 1,332 1,350 233 5 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 238,961 268,877 240,458 89.4 223,626 138,597 23,896 5 (1) Purchased goods and services 140,994 146,646 124,520 84.9 115,803 81,777 14,099 5 (2) Capital goods 40,669 36,219 30,085 83.1 27,979 23,588 4,067 5 (3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 24,483 28,201 29,819 105.7 27,731 14,200 2,448 5 (4) Upstream transportation and distribution 257 451 280 62.0 260 149 26 5 (5) Waste generated in operations 425 673 517 76.9 481 247 43 5 (6) Business travel 406 2,233 1,358 60.8 1,263 235 41 5 (7) Employee commuting 1,736 1,987 1,896 95.4 1,764 1,007 174 5 (8) Upstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (9) Downstream transportation N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (10) Processing of sold products N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (11) Use of sold products 28,959 49,512 49,289 99.5 45,839 16,796 2,896 5 (12) End-of-life treatment of sold products 1,032 2,955 2,694 91.2 2,505 599 103 5 (13) Downstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (14) Franchises N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (15) Investments N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) (tCO2eq) 298,398 336,009 285,408 265,429 173,071 29,840 5 Total GHG emissions (market-based) (tCO2eq) 247,216 274,556 242,815 225,818 143,385 24,722 5 73 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"GHG intensity based on net revenue GHG intensity per net revenue N (2024) N-1 (2023) % N / N-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00013 0.00015 84 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00011 0.00013 88 Scope 2 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s indirect energy consumption. Elisa reports both location-based and market-based figures. Location-based emissions for electricity consumption are calculated by using the three-year average for the total supplier mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. In cases where country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. Market-based electricity calculations are performed using the three-year average for the residual mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. If country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. When available, country-specific factors are used for heating and cooling. When not available, heating and cooling heating factors from the latest UK Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) report is used. Elisa’s core market retail sale of information and communica­ tion equipment is categorised as high climate impact sector G47.4. We do not separate this activity in Elisa’s financial statements. The total energy consumption of Elisa companies relative to revenue (energy intensity) is derived from Elisa’s total energy consumption reported in table ‘Total energy consumption in 2024’ divided by the total revenue of the Elisa group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Elisa reports all the material categories of Scope 3 emission as listed in table Gross GHG emission under significant Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The materiality of the specific categories and companies are based on euro-based threshold. Where the data exceeds the threshold, it is reported under relevant categories. The data used in Scope 3 are obtained either directly from Elisa’s internal systems or from third-party partner reports. Where it is possible to obtain product- and supplier-specific CO2 coefficients, they are used. For example, emissions from electronic products are calculated using supplier- and product-specific factors (e.g.: Apple products, laptops, etc.), and upstream transportation is calculated using supplier-spe­ cific emission factors. When not available, we use the general average or industry-specific factors (e.g: Defra’s emission factors, emission factors from the LIPASTO transport emission database or the average of different life cycle assessment research). 0.12 percent of emissions are calculated based on primary emission data provided directly by the suppliers. Six GHG emission categories are excluded from the calculation – upstream leased assets, downstream transportation, processing of sold products, downstream leased assets, franchising and investments – as they were assessed to be non-material. Elisa does not have significant leased assets under Scope 3 that are not already included in Scopes 1 and 2. Energy consumption at rented sites as well as energy consumption of other operators with leases is calculated and reported in Scope 2. Elisa does not engage in franchising, and emissions from investment and processing of sold products are not relevant. Emissions from downstream transportation are included in the upstream transportation categories. Due to Elisa’s growing international footprint, the boundaries of our reporting and data include new acquisitions made in 2024. Elisa continuously develops its measurements, which may imply changes in the data beyond business or operational changes. In 2024, we thoroughly developed our data collection and management processes and prioritised primary data over secondary estimated or assumed data, resulting in an overall enhancement in data quality. These improvements are noticeable, for example, indirect energy and scope 3 purchased services. Further, we have kept GHG emission factors in Scopes 1 and 2 up to date according to sources provided by third parties. Additionally, we have also updated our GHG emission factors based on the latest available knowledge for Scope 3 emissions. Elisa’s emission impact relative to revenue (emission intensity) is derived from the total emissions of Elisa companies reported in table ‘Total GHG emissions’ divided by the total revenue of the group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Accounting principles – Greenhouse gas emissions Elisa’s energy consumption and GHG emissions include data from all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Elisa takes general principles of calculations into account in its calculations. The boundaries of the calculation are defined so that they best correspond to Elisa’s operations. Reporting covers direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) and upstream and downstream value chain emissions from relevant categories in Scope 3. Direct energy includes fuels, oils and gas purchased by Elisa for its use in mobile (such as company cars) or stationary sources (such as heating systems or generators). Scope 1 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s direct energy consumption and relevant emission factors for each fuel type. The emission factors are derived from the latest Statistics Finland database. Indirect energy includes the consumption of procured heating, cooling and electricity in various facilities (such as office premises, shops, networks, etc.) that Elisa leases or owns. In general, consumption figures are obtained from the lessor (building management company), rental bills or relevant invoices. When the actual consumption is not available, the energy is calculated based on square meters and using facility-specific consumption intensity (kWh/m2). 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy Policies Elisa updated its group-level Environmental Policy in 2024 to advance its goals of resource efficiency, circularity and waste management. The policy focuses on key areas such as reducing waste, enhancing resource efficiency and transi­ tioning toward a circular economy. Elisa promotes reducing reliance on virgin resources and sustainable sourcing by supporting circular design solutions and prioritising circular alternatives whenever feasible. Within its operations, Elisa focuses on extending product lifespans and developing circular business models aimed at phasing out landfill use and minimising non-energy waste incineration. The company also supports its customers and stakeholders in the circular economy by providing circular offerings to customers. At Elisa, we develop our operations with the approach of prioritising prevention, reuse, refurbishing and recycling, and other recovery methods over disposal. We are committed to minimising waste generation through responsible business practices, engaging stakeholders in circularity initiatives and ensuring that the transition to a more circular economy is fair and just for all. More information on the scope and implementation of this policy is described in the section Climate change Our approach As part of double materiality assessment, Elisa has evaluated its impacts, risks and opportunities which is explained in the DMA section of this statement. Elisa does not have manufactu­ ring operations of its own, but we recognise that our business and operations are dependent on using natural resources, which are required to produce devices and equipment that we use and sell. Additionally, we see the resource outflow aspect of the circular economy largely as an opportunity, for example through our device refurbishment and repair business for consumer customers, or by providing device-as- a-service circular economy business models for our corporate customers. Elisa is dependent on upstream value chain climate commitments to reach its climate targets. Through circular economy actions in collaboration with our suppliers, we are continuously improving resource efficiency in our own activities, but also more widely in our value chain. Circularity actions are also important vehicles to positively contribute to our climate and other environmental impacts. We have established business models in our downstream value chain that enable our customers to engage with circular business models. Similarly, we continuously seek ways to improve the resource efficiency of our own operations, through reuse, repair and refurbishment, as well as contributing to second-hand marketplaces. Elisa has not directly engaged with local communities regarding circularity and waste; however, we have regular dialogue and co-operation with our customers and suppliers including waste management partners. Elisa has not identified any communities directly affected or harmed by Elisa’s impacts on resource use and circular economy including waste. We assess our impact to ensure that impacts of our actions do not negatively affect our stakeholders and will evaluate remedy actions if such cases emerge. As the circular economy (including resource inflows and resource outflows-waste) is assessed to be material for Elisa, as part of our climate transition, we have set Elisa group-level Zero Waste 2030 target. Zero waste for us means the conservation of resources in all operations to avoid harmful discharges. Elisa’s Zero Waste 2030 target is voluntary and is not mandated by legislation. It addresses minimising and gradually phasing out waste to landfill. Waste is managed through targeted actions in upstream direct operations and downstream, including proper treatment through circularity processes, such as materials recovery and reuse. The target is divided into three sub-targets. The first sub-target is zero waste in capital goods deliveries, which means minimising and using recyclable packaging materials for network equipment. The second sub-target is zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration, which means minimising waste from offices and stores as well as reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling network equipment. The third sub-target is zero waste until customer handover, which means reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling devices. The progress of performance is reviewed against the target set. The target is aligned with our Environmental policy where we have pledged to manage the material negative impacts and risks of our operations. We have engaged the internal stakeholder in setting the targets. Targets, actions and performance in 2024 Target Scope Performance Key Actions Zero waste in capital goods deliveries (upstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Supplier engagement for climate transition planning, with an initial focus on logistics in Finland. Zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration (direct) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Promoting business opportunity to reuse of network equipment in Finland and Estonia. Updated assessment of waste stream processes in offices, with an initial focus in Finland. Zero waste until customer handover (downstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Development of carbon impact calculation for refurbished and repaired devices in Finland. Improvement and development of device circularity to align with EU taxonomy requirements in Finland. Raising awareness through social media campaign among consumer regarding device circularity and reuse. 75 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Scope 3 (45.8% of total GHG reductions) Science-based climate targets of suppliers: • Climate targets of suppliers (58% of Scope 3, 26.8% of total GHG reductions) • Reuse of capital infrastructure (0.4% of Scope 3, 0.2% of total GHG reductions) Use of sold products: • Energy policy engagement and renewable infrastructure (20% of Scope 3, 9.1% of total GHG reductions) End-of-life of sold products: • Repair and refurbishment of devices (10% of Scope 3, 4.8% of total GHG reductions) Energy production: • Extra GoOs and switch to wind or solar GoOs (7% of Scope 3, 3.3% of total GHG reductions) Own operations: • Policy-based (4% of Scope 3, 1.7% of total GHG reductions) We have assessed that energy-related levers have low to medium complexity and medium-level continued investments. Upstream value chain collaboration-related levers are of medium to high complexity that require medium- to high-level cumulative investments until 2030. Some of the climate transition levers described above are EU Taxonomy-eligible activities (as supplemented by Commission Delegated Regulations 2021/2139 and 2021/2178), being related to data centres (marked as heat pump modernisation and disclosed in Taxonomy under activity CCM 4.16 Installation and operation of electric heat pumps), distributed energy storage (included in internal innovation quadrant in the above matrix and disclosed in Taxonomy under CCM 4.10 Storage of electricity) and Climate Transition Plan (CTP) levers and their estimated financial and climate impact We have categorised our decarbonization lever categories and estimated their expected GHG emission reductions in 2030 (in percent of total GHG reduction effect of all levers): Scope 1 (1.7% of total GHG reductions) Elisa’s own operations: • Heat pump modernisation (42% of Scope 1, 0.7% of total GHG reductions) • Renewable heating (38% of Scope 1, 0.7% of total GHG reductions) • District heating (20% of Scope 1, 0.3% of total GHG reductions) Scope 2 (52.5% of total GHG reductions) Elisa’s own operations: • Guarantees of origin (GoOs) (85% of Scope 2, 44.8% of total GHG reductions) • Power purchase agreements (12% of Scope 2, 6.3% of total GHG reductions) • Modernisation and optimisation (2% of Scope 2, 0.8% of total GHG reductions) • Data centre heat recovery (1% of Scope 2, 0.5% of total GHG reductions) 67 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment Low complexity Medium complexity High complexity INVESTMENT QUICK WINS COLLABORATION INTERNAL INNOVATION Energy Guarantees of Origin (GoOs) Additional measures in solar and wind power Repair and refurbishment Long-term power purchasing agreements (PPAs) Heat pump moderisation Renewable heating District heating measures Policies Data centre heat recovery Low Medium High Reuse of capital infrastructure Action plan impacts Modernisation and optimisation Climate targets of suppliers Cumulative costs or savings, 2024-2030 Cost Saving Revenue Reduction size (2030, tCO2eq) >100,000 ~30,000 ~5,000"
"device circularity (marked as repair and refurbishment and disclosed in Taxonomy under CE 5.1 Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing). The related capital expenditure data is reported in the EU Taxonomy section of this statement, and it is also included in the table below of significant capital and operational expenditures required for implementation of Elisa’s CTAP. For Elisa, the related capital expenditures are typically investments in energy efficiency of telecom infrastructure, and operational expenditures are, for example, carbon-free energy acquisition through Guarantees of Origin or Power Purchasing Agreements. These examples of expenditures are already part of well-established processes of continuous improvement in Elisa’s operations. Other areas are less mature, for example mitigation of risks from dependencies on supplier performance against their own climate targets, which can require additional resources in, for example, supplier engagement with incentives, setting policies that might result in price increases, and scaling up opportunities in the circular economy. We are still forming our understanding and approach in this area, and therefore we are not yet providing financial estimates of capital or operational expenditures for such planned actions. We see three clusters of levers in Elisa’s climate transition planning – energy, supply chain, and circular economy. These are aligned with and contribute to objectives of related policies and guidelines of Elisa, especially in the areas of environmental, energy and procurement. Specific levers, such as energy efficiency improvements in mobile networks or energy attribute certificates, consist of various actions taken during the reporting year, in different parts and geographies of the Elisa group or its value chain or with other stakehol­ ders. The key actions, summarised in the table, are mostly efforts of continuous improvement over several years, but they are all expected to have an outcome that contribute to the achievement of Elisa’s near-term climate targets in 2030. We have for the above list so far not recognised significant harm that is caused to external stakeholders from actions based on our climate transition planning but will evaluate remedy actions if such cases emerge. We ensure consistency between climate transition targets and GHG inventory boundaries, meaning that relevant emission sources are accounted for in our reporting. This is accomp­ lished by clearly establishing organisational boundaries for Elisa’s GHG inventory, including relevant regions, facilities, assets and activities. We apply consistent methodologies and, increasingly, automation in calculating GHG emissions on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. Additionally, we ensure that the continuous development of methodology is transpa­ rently documented, and that data is retroactively corrected, Financial resources allocated to the Climate Transition Action Plan in 2024 Instruments Climate actions, with scope and time horizons CapEx [mEUR] OpEx [mEUR] Energy efficiency Improvements in mobile and fixed networks, for example through modernisation of 4G and 5G, as well as transforming fixed legacy networks with the latest technology. Improvements in premises and data centres, for example through modernisation in cooling, optimisation, cloudification, automation, as well as in continuous development and operation of properties. New innovations and development of solutions, for example by using machine learning and AI, distributed energy storage, smart meters, as well as implementing and developing green coding. The key actions above, are development efforts that span over several years, mainly in Elisa’s telecom network operations on the home markets of Finland and Estonia. Scope 1 and 2 emission reductions of these actions often show already within the reporting year, but usually have a long-term impact. 136 1 Other climate actions Energy generation in own direct operations, energy attribute certificates and agreements, supplier engagement for material efficiency, as well as research and beyond value chain mitigation. The key actions above, are development efforts that span over several years, and cover operations in different parts and geographies of the Elisa group or its value chain. Scope 3 emission reductions of these actions increasingly show towards Elisa’s near-term climate targets in 2030, while Scope 1 and 2 emission reductions are usually immediate. 0 3 if necessary. We have built a robust ESG data management system for the management and reporting of GHG emissions, and we have developed capabilities for scenario analyses of various emission reduction lever impacts. It is important to engage with suppliers, in particular, to drive a level of transparency that is necessary for an increasingly granular analysis of Elisa’s GHG inventory. Elisa’s first near-term target was approved by the SBTi in 2018 and was updated in 2023, including setting a new base year of 2021. Past progress made in meeting climate targets before this is available from Elisa’s annual reports. The baseline values set are based on Elisa’s assured and publicly available ESG reporting. Elisa’s international expansion poses some degree of challenge regarding this baseline, as new company acquisitions increase the boundaries of our GHG inventory to some degree. Baseline values are adjusted at the latest in updated target-setting every five years, according to SBTi guidelines. The related calculation methodology ensures that such targets remain compatible with global warming of 1.5°C. Through our double-materiality assessment (DMA), we, for example, identify parameters in Elisa’s contextual environment that can highly affect operations. We conduct structured analyses of, for example, technology-related roadmaps, Elisa’s competitors, and various other market factors, provided by our market intelligence experts. We continuously engage with stakeholders that are either impacted by our operations or have an impact on business strategy or operations, such as customers, employees, investors, regulators and suppliers. We also acknowledge the important perspectives of, for instance brought up by local communities and NGOs. Our scenario analysis accounts for both physical and transitional risks, based on various information sources. In addition to climate scenarios for geographical areas of our 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"operations, we analyse climate extremes and future changes in climate over the next three decades. We have utilised information sources and tools that consider climate chan­ ge-related factors that are the most relevant for our operations including flooding, severe storms and wildfire hazards. We also cover the susceptibility of society to climate change. According to this analysis, both Finland and Estonia have relatively low climate change exposures and vulnerabilities, but some of our international offices have higher risks in some areas. GHG removal and mitigation projects Elisa’s long-term goals (Net-zero 2040) allow us, in accordance with the recommendation of the SBTi initiative, to use only removal-type carbon credit projects for neutralisation of carbon emissions. This means that, at most, 10 percent of emissions at that point can be covered by carbon removal through carbon credits. We prioritise abatement within our value chain, and we are continuously investigating ways to reduce carbon emissions together with various stakeholders. We are currently focused on our near-term, science-based target for 2030, with a 42 percent reduction in all scopes of emissions. We will not use carbon credits for near-term target. Elisa is nevertheless already investing in additional mitigation actions beyond the near- and long-term science-based targets. Currently, Elisa has not developed any projects in its own operations or value chain for GHG emission removal or storage, but as part of Elisa’s CTP, we are exploring oppor­ tunities in this area. However, Elisa adopted the practice of beyond-value-chain mitigation already in 2020, with the scope of annually acquiring carbon credits in an amount equal to the remaining emissions in our own operations, meaning from fuels (Scope 1) and a small portion of other energy usage (Scope 2), as well as from waste and from business travel and employee commuting, including remote working (Scope 3). Beyond-value-chain mitigation thus comprises a valuable aspect in building the sustainable service offering that Elisa provides to its customers. Our selected carbon credit projects also have co-benefits for people and nature. Over time, Elisa has built a carbon credit portfolio with a variety of high-quality projects of different types and on different continents, according to the following motivations: • Mitigate risks with a well-balanced portfolio • Predictability for high-quality carbon credits • Benefit financially from strategic procurement • Adress Elisa’s geographical value chain impacts • Test and learn about available opportunities to support our transition When reviewing, deciding, and procuring carbon credits, we do due diligence as follows: • Additionality: The project reduces carbon emissions that are not reduced through other initiatives. • Leakage prevention: Emission reductions from the project do not leak to other locations or activities. • Permanence: The project permanently prevents the carbon emissions from entering the atmosphere. • Verifiability: An objective third party confirms that emission reductions from the project are credible. • Other risk assessment: The project e.g. avoids very high-risk countries. Elisa purchased carbon credits from projects that are of high quality, verified by standard bodies like Gold Standard and Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The methodologies of these standards ensure accurate quantification and verification for various mitigation technologies and processes. To further lessen risks in the quality of carbon credits, we do additional vetting to the extent possible together with selected partners. We follow developments in methodologies and actively engage in dialogue with providers and other experts or stakeholders, to continuously develop Elisa’s carbon credit portfolio. 69 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Carbon credit portfolio in 2024 Project name Project type Short project description Quality standard and project ID American BioCarbon biochar (USA) Removal (Oxford Category 5) Technical carbon sink American BioCarbon produces biochar in Louisiana, USA, making beneficial use of agricultural waste from the sugar cane industry (bagasse). Alongside pure carbon removal benefits, the project also produces clean energy as well as biochar, which can be used as a soil amendment. By taking an abundant, biogenic waste material and converting it to biochar, carbon dioxide is locked out of the atmosphere. Puro.earth Puro-543800 San Jerónimo Coatlán (Mexico) Removal (Oxford Category 4) Biogenic carbon sink San Jerónimo Coatlán is a rural and partly indigenous community located in the south of Oaxaca, Mexico. The land is communally owned, and for the last 20 years the community has forests communally to produce pine and oak wood. The project enables the community to invest in forest restoration and reforestation, as well as maintain a forestry ranger service to control wildfires and plagues and invest in social projects to improve health and water access for the population. Climate Action Reserve CAR1829 Borneo peatlands (Indonesia) Reduction (Oxford Category 2) Indonesian Borneo (Kalimantan) encompasses approximately 5.7 million hectares of peatland. The project is protecting and restoring 149,800 hectares of peatland ecosystems, covering one of Indonesia’s largest remaining intact peat swamp forests, and is reforesting 4,433 hectares of non-forest areas within the project area. The project also protects wildlife and improves livelihoods for the community located in the area. Verified Carbon Standard VCS 1477 Keio Seima (Cambodia) Reduction (Oxford Category 2) The Seima Protection Forest covers 292,690 hectares and is located in eastern Cambodia, mainly in Mondulkiri Province, with a small area extending into Kratie Province. The REDD project area covers 166,983 hectares of forest. The project is an Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) project under the Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) project category. The project also protects wildlife and improves livelihoods for the community located in the area. Verified Carbon Standard VCS 1650 Rimba Raya (Indonesia) Reduction (Oxford Category 2) The project protects the Rimba Raya area in south-eastern Borneo, Indonesia from deforestation. For decades, Borneo has been suffering from deforestation, and its remaining rainforests are threatened with disappearance due to logging (including illegal logging), mineral mining and palm oil production. The reserve covers 64,000 hectares and provides a habitat for hundreds of species, including the endangered Bornean orangutan. Verified Carbon Standard VCS 674 Elisa’s portfolio for beyond-value-chain mitigation currently consists of both reduction and removal projects. As described below, Elisa’s active carbon credit portfolio, from which cancellations have been done for the reporting year, included removal-type projects from Oxford Category 4 (forest restoration/reforestation) and Category 5 (biochar), together with reduction-type projects: We see additional value also in innovation and dialogue directly with project developers and are for example supporting initiatives such as solar cooker systems for village communities in Zambia and mangrove plantations in Indonesia and the Philippines. We transparently describe all carbon credit projects in our portfolio, their cancellations, and related climate and other benefits, further on Elisa’s sustainability webpages. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Carbon credits cancelled Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year Comparative (2023) N (2024) Total amount of carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year (tCO2eq) 11,101 6,800 Share from removal projects (%) 4 16 Share from reduction projects (%) 96 84 Verified Carbon Standard (%) 96 84 Puro.earth (%) 1 1 Gold Standard (%) 3 0 Climate Action Reserve (%) 0 15 Share from projects within the EU (%) 1 0 Share of carbon credits that qualify as corresponding adjustments (%) 0 0 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future Amount until (2040) Total (tCO2eq) We have so far purchased carbon credits on the voluntary carbon market, and do not have contractual agreements that extend over several years. We expect to continue cancelling carbon credits in an amount equal to the remaining emissions in our own direct operations and increasingly prepare towards the neutralisation phase also after 2040. Energy consumption and mix Total energy consumption in 2024 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products (MWh) 0 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products (MWh) 4,018 Fuel consumption from natural gas (MWh) 33 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources (MWh) 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from fossil sources (MWh) 11,959 Total fossil energy consumption (MWh) 16,010 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (%) 4 Consumption from nuclear sources (MWh) 239,847 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption (%) 66 Fuel consumption for renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) (MWh) 17 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from renewable sources (MWh) 109,382 Consumption of self-generated, non-fuel renewable energy (MWh) 50 Total renewable energy consumption (MWh) 109,449 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (%) 30 Total energy consumption (MWh) 365,306 Total energy production in 2024 Total energy produced (MWh) 6,565 Total renewable energy produced (MWh) 6,565 71 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year (2021) Comparative (2023) N (2024) % N/N-1 2025 2030 2040 Annual % target (2030)/ base year (2021) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 5,927 4,084 925 22.7 860 3,438 593 5 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 53,510 63,047 44,025 69.8 40,943 31,036 5,351 5 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 2,328 1,595 1,432 89.8 1,332 1,350 233 5 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 238,961 268,877 240,458 89.4 223,626 138,597 23,896 5 (1) Purchased goods and services 140,994 146,646 124,520 84.9 115,803 81,777 14,099 5 (2) Capital goods 40,669 36,219 30,085 83.1 27,979 23,588 4,067 5 (3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 24,483 28,201 29,819 105.7 27,731 14,200 2,448 5 (4) Upstream transportation and distribution 257 451 280 62.0 260 149 26 5 (5) Waste generated in operations 425 673 517 76.9 481 247 43 5 (6) Business travel 406 2,233 1,358 60.8 1,263 235 41 5 (7) Employee commuting 1,736 1,987 1,896 95.4 1,764 1,007 174 5 (8) Upstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (9) Downstream transportation N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (10) Processing of sold products N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (11) Use of sold products 28,959 49,512 49,289 99.5 45,839 16,796 2,896 5 (12) End-of-life treatment of sold products 1,032 2,955 2,694 91.2 2,505 599 103 5 (13) Downstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (14) Franchises N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (15) Investments N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) (tCO2eq) 298,398 336,009 285,408 265,429 173,071 29,840 5 Total GHG emissions (market-based) (tCO2eq) 247,216 274,556 242,815 225,818 143,385 24,722 5 73 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"GHG intensity based on net revenue GHG intensity per net revenue N (2024) N-1 (2023) % N / N-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00013 0.00015 84 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00011 0.00013 88 Scope 2 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s indirect energy consumption. Elisa reports both location-based and market-based figures. Location-based emissions for electricity consumption are calculated by using the three-year average for the total supplier mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. In cases where country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. Market-based electricity calculations are performed using the three-year average for the residual mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. If country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. When available, country-specific factors are used for heating and cooling. When not available, heating and cooling heating factors from the latest UK Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) report is used. Elisa’s core market retail sale of information and communica­ tion equipment is categorised as high climate impact sector G47.4. We do not separate this activity in Elisa’s financial statements. The total energy consumption of Elisa companies relative to revenue (energy intensity) is derived from Elisa’s total energy consumption reported in table ‘Total energy consumption in 2024’ divided by the total revenue of the Elisa group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Elisa reports all the material categories of Scope 3 emission as listed in table Gross GHG emission under significant Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The materiality of the specific categories and companies are based on euro-based threshold. Where the data exceeds the threshold, it is reported under relevant categories. The data used in Scope 3 are obtained either directly from Elisa’s internal systems or from third-party partner reports. Where it is possible to obtain product- and supplier-specific CO2 coefficients, they are used. For example, emissions from electronic products are calculated using supplier- and product-specific factors (e.g.: Apple products, laptops, etc.), and upstream transportation is calculated using supplier-spe­ cific emission factors. When not available, we use the general average or industry-specific factors (e.g: Defra’s emission factors, emission factors from the LIPASTO transport emission database or the average of different life cycle assessment research). 0.12 percent of emissions are calculated based on primary emission data provided directly by the suppliers. Six GHG emission categories are excluded from the calculation – upstream leased assets, downstream transportation, processing of sold products, downstream leased assets, franchising and investments – as they were assessed to be non-material. Elisa does not have significant leased assets under Scope 3 that are not already included in Scopes 1 and 2. Energy consumption at rented sites as well as energy consumption of other operators with leases is calculated and reported in Scope 2. Elisa does not engage in franchising, and emissions from investment and processing of sold products are not relevant. Emissions from downstream transportation are included in the upstream transportation categories. Due to Elisa’s growing international footprint, the boundaries of our reporting and data include new acquisitions made in 2024. Elisa continuously develops its measurements, which may imply changes in the data beyond business or operational changes. In 2024, we thoroughly developed our data collection and management processes and prioritised primary data over secondary estimated or assumed data, resulting in an overall enhancement in data quality. These improvements are noticeable, for example, indirect energy and scope 3 purchased services. Further, we have kept GHG emission factors in Scopes 1 and 2 up to date according to sources provided by third parties. Additionally, we have also updated our GHG emission factors based on the latest available knowledge for Scope 3 emissions. Elisa’s emission impact relative to revenue (emission intensity) is derived from the total emissions of Elisa companies reported in table ‘Total GHG emissions’ divided by the total revenue of the group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Accounting principles – Greenhouse gas emissions Elisa’s energy consumption and GHG emissions include data from all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Elisa takes general principles of calculations into account in its calculations. The boundaries of the calculation are defined so that they best correspond to Elisa’s operations. Reporting covers direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) and upstream and downstream value chain emissions from relevant categories in Scope 3. Direct energy includes fuels, oils and gas purchased by Elisa for its use in mobile (such as company cars) or stationary sources (such as heating systems or generators). Scope 1 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s direct energy consumption and relevant emission factors for each fuel type. The emission factors are derived from the latest Statistics Finland database. Indirect energy includes the consumption of procured heating, cooling and electricity in various facilities (such as office premises, shops, networks, etc.) that Elisa leases or owns. In general, consumption figures are obtained from the lessor (building management company), rental bills or relevant invoices. When the actual consumption is not available, the energy is calculated based on square meters and using facility-specific consumption intensity (kWh/m2). 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy Policies Elisa updated its group-level Environmental Policy in 2024 to advance its goals of resource efficiency, circularity and waste management. The policy focuses on key areas such as reducing waste, enhancing resource efficiency and transi­ tioning toward a circular economy. Elisa promotes reducing reliance on virgin resources and sustainable sourcing by supporting circular design solutions and prioritising circular alternatives whenever feasible. Within its operations, Elisa focuses on extending product lifespans and developing circular business models aimed at phasing out landfill use and minimising non-energy waste incineration. The company also supports its customers and stakeholders in the circular economy by providing circular offerings to customers. At Elisa, we develop our operations with the approach of prioritising prevention, reuse, refurbishing and recycling, and other recovery methods over disposal. We are committed to minimising waste generation through responsible business practices, engaging stakeholders in circularity initiatives and ensuring that the transition to a more circular economy is fair and just for all. More information on the scope and implementation of this policy is described in the section Climate change Our approach As part of double materiality assessment, Elisa has evaluated its impacts, risks and opportunities which is explained in the DMA section of this statement. Elisa does not have manufactu­ ring operations of its own, but we recognise that our business and operations are dependent on using natural resources, which are required to produce devices and equipment that we use and sell. Additionally, we see the resource outflow aspect of the circular economy largely as an opportunity, for example through our device refurbishment and repair business for consumer customers, or by providing device-as- a-service circular economy business models for our corporate customers. Elisa is dependent on upstream value chain climate commitments to reach its climate targets. Through circular economy actions in collaboration with our suppliers, we are continuously improving resource efficiency in our own activities, but also more widely in our value chain. Circularity actions are also important vehicles to positively contribute to our climate and other environmental impacts. We have established business models in our downstream value chain that enable our customers to engage with circular business models. Similarly, we continuously seek ways to improve the resource efficiency of our own operations, through reuse, repair and refurbishment, as well as contributing to second-hand marketplaces. Elisa has not directly engaged with local communities regarding circularity and waste; however, we have regular dialogue and co-operation with our customers and suppliers including waste management partners. Elisa has not identified any communities directly affected or harmed by Elisa’s impacts on resource use and circular economy including waste. We assess our impact to ensure that impacts of our actions do not negatively affect our stakeholders and will evaluate remedy actions if such cases emerge. As the circular economy (including resource inflows and resource outflows-waste) is assessed to be material for Elisa, as part of our climate transition, we have set Elisa group-level Zero Waste 2030 target. Zero waste for us means the conservation of resources in all operations to avoid harmful discharges. Elisa’s Zero Waste 2030 target is voluntary and is not mandated by legislation. It addresses minimising and gradually phasing out waste to landfill. Waste is managed through targeted actions in upstream direct operations and downstream, including proper treatment through circularity processes, such as materials recovery and reuse. The target is divided into three sub-targets. The first sub-target is zero waste in capital goods deliveries, which means minimising and using recyclable packaging materials for network equipment. The second sub-target is zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration, which means minimising waste from offices and stores as well as reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling network equipment. The third sub-target is zero waste until customer handover, which means reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling devices. The progress of performance is reviewed against the target set. The target is aligned with our Environmental policy where we have pledged to manage the material negative impacts and risks of our operations. We have engaged the internal stakeholder in setting the targets. Targets, actions and performance in 2024 Target Scope Performance Key Actions Zero waste in capital goods deliveries (upstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Supplier engagement for climate transition planning, with an initial focus on logistics in Finland. Zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration (direct) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Promoting business opportunity to reuse of network equipment in Finland and Estonia. Updated assessment of waste stream processes in offices, with an initial focus in Finland. Zero waste until customer handover (downstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Development of carbon impact calculation for refurbished and repaired devices in Finland. Improvement and development of device circularity to align with EU taxonomy requirements in Finland. Raising awareness through social media campaign among consumer regarding device circularity and reuse. 75 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Elisa is one of Finland’s largest mobile device retailers, which is why the resources used for manufacturing of devices is material for us. In our role as a service provider, we can have a positive impact on electronic waste and the environment by offering solutions that extend the lifespan and data-secure recycling of devices. The company follows statutory regulations and instructions, also when building its networks. In building and maintaining our network, we have a process for reusing equipment; if doing so is not practically feasible for technical reasons nor financially viable due to, for example, poor energy efficiency, the material of hardware is recycled. In our office premises, recycling and waste management is organised by local partner. Waste-related data is collected through Elisa’s sustainability reporting and monitoring system and is based on data from partners or their own estimates. Performance against the target is monitored in CRMB as well as in relevant Elisa operations. Elisa is committed to supporting solutions designed for circularity through eco-design and extending product lifetimes. This includes reusing, repairing and refurbishing products to enhance their durability, reparability and recyclability, all of which are key components of the transition towards a more circular economy. We are reducing our reliance on new raw material inputs, and our aim is to prioritise sourcing circular alternatives and increasing materials recovery within our own operations. Our commitment extends to seeking the sustainable sourcing of materials, prioritising circular alternatives in our supply chain and safeguarding the health and safety of the workforce. These efforts are in line with the cascading principle of renewable resource use, which emphasises responsible and efficient utilisation of resources. Elisa engages consumers in circular thinking, for example by increasing awareness and promoting device recycling through incentives for customers. We also continue to expand our sustainable and circular offerings, for example through device-as-a-service business models. Resource inflows Manufactured electronic devices, network technologies and batteries make up the majority of inflowing materials. We utilise these technologies to operate our networks and to provide services and products to our customers and end users. These devices and technologies utilise metals and minerals, including some critical and rare materials. Many of these materials have few or no available substitutes and cannot be replaced. Additionally, the inflow also includes batteries, which can include some precious metals. Resource inflows in 2024 Total weight of resource inflow products including packaging (kg) 79,199,692 Percentage of biological materials including packaging (%) 0.4 The absolute weight of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials including packaging (kg) 0 Percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials (%) 0 Accounting principles – Resource inflows The data includes Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As as the resource inflow is most relevant to these businesses. The total weight of products includes all of the manufactured materials, electronic devices and network technologies procured during 2024. The weight data is collected from Elisa’s procurement system, where the supplier provided data is used when available. In case such data is not available, we have used researched estimations. The biological material used or acquired is insignificant, thus we estimate it to be close to zero. Weight and share of secondary reused or recycled materials are estimated to be negligible and thus zero, as we do not have adequate and accurate data to do any justified calculations. To ensure accuracy, we have diligently avoided double counting by using the data from Elisa’s procurement system only once and have used third party assurance of data and calculations. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Resource outflows – Waste Elisa does not manufacture or produce any of the products it offers in the market. Elisa operates as a retailer, supplying products to customers. In this capacity, the resource inflows and outflows – including the products and their packaging volumes – are nearly equivalent. Concerning our network operations, facilities, office premises and businesses, our resource outflows result mainly from electronic waste, which typically includes network equipment, other electronics and batteries (both rechargeable and non-rechargeable) and in addition packaging. The amount of office waste is minimal in Elisa’s waste volume, and we adhere to the waste management principles of reducing, reusing and recycling, in collaboration with local waste management partners. Elisa operates under the Extended Producer Responsibility principles by recycling electronic devices, batteries and accu­ mulators, as well as packaging material. Replaced network equipment is either reused in our own operations, sold to the second-hand market or recycled through our third-party partner. The pieces of equipment that are handed over to a third-party partner for further refurbishment and sales are first collected and examined by Elisa to assess whether they are commercially viable, before being packaged for transporta­ tion. Our shops in Finland and Estonia have WEEE collection receptacles for consumer electronic consumables, through which e.g. devices are taken for re-processing to become materials for new electronic products. Our shops in Finland have specific collection boxes for recycling mobile devices and other portable devices. We offer monetary compensation for phones eligible for reuse, for example, when purchasing a new device. Collected devices are repaired, refurbished and reintroduced to the market for consumers, contributing to the circular economy. Additionally, Elisa also complies with local laws as part of producer responsibility, for example in Finland regarding the recycling of packing waste Total waste generated in 2024 Total amount of waste (kg) 838,763 Non-recycled waste (kg) 219,803 Non-recycled waste (%) 26 Total amount of hazardous waste (kg) 356,435 Total waste diverted from disposal (kg) 675,699 Hazardous waste (kg) 356,415 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 356,415 Other recovery operations (kg) N/A Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 319,284 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 262,545 Other recovery operations (kg) 56,739 Total waste directed to disposal (kg) 163,065 Hazardous waste (kg) 20 Incineration (kg) N/A Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) 20 Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 163,045 Incineration (kg) 163,045 Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) N/A Accounting principles – Resource outflows – Waste The data includes all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. Elisa’s waste volumes consist of materials generated directly across various facilities (such as offices, shops and network infrastructure sites) and are predominantly linked to our business operations. Most of the waste is comprised of battery waste and WEEE (encompassing technology equipment and consumer electronic products), as well as metal and packaging waste. In addition, office waste forms a minor portion of our total waste volume and typically includes materials such as paper, cardboard and biowaste. The composition of these waste streams includes several types of materials, notably minerals, metals and critical materials from technology equipment and batteries, plastics from packaging materials and biomass from office biowaste. Waste data is systematically gathered through reports from our waste management partners or building management, ensuring accuracy. In cases where actual data is unavailable, particularly in certain office locations, estimates based on office headcount are used, as this directly correlates with waste generation. However, the estimated data amounts to less than 3 percent of Elisa’s total waste volume. 77 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year (2021) Comparative (2023) N (2024) % N/N-1 2025 2030 2040 Annual % target (2030)/ base year (2021) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 5,927 4,084 925 22.7 860 3,438 593 5 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 53,510 63,047 44,025 69.8 40,943 31,036 5,351 5 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 2,328 1,595 1,432 89.8 1,332 1,350 233 5 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 238,961 268,877 240,458 89.4 223,626 138,597 23,896 5 (1) Purchased goods and services 140,994 146,646 124,520 84.9 115,803 81,777 14,099 5 (2) Capital goods 40,669 36,219 30,085 83.1 27,979 23,588 4,067 5 (3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 24,483 28,201 29,819 105.7 27,731 14,200 2,448 5 (4) Upstream transportation and distribution 257 451 280 62.0 260 149 26 5 (5) Waste generated in operations 425 673 517 76.9 481 247 43 5 (6) Business travel 406 2,233 1,358 60.8 1,263 235 41 5 (7) Employee commuting 1,736 1,987 1,896 95.4 1,764 1,007 174 5 (8) Upstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (9) Downstream transportation N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (10) Processing of sold products N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (11) Use of sold products 28,959 49,512 49,289 99.5 45,839 16,796 2,896 5 (12) End-of-life treatment of sold products 1,032 2,955 2,694 91.2 2,505 599 103 5 (13) Downstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (14) Franchises N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (15) Investments N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) (tCO2eq) 298,398 336,009 285,408 265,429 173,071 29,840 5 Total GHG emissions (market-based) (tCO2eq) 247,216 274,556 242,815 225,818 143,385 24,722 5 73 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"GHG intensity based on net revenue GHG intensity per net revenue N (2024) N-1 (2023) % N / N-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00013 0.00015 84 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00011 0.00013 88 Scope 2 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s indirect energy consumption. Elisa reports both location-based and market-based figures. Location-based emissions for electricity consumption are calculated by using the three-year average for the total supplier mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. In cases where country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. Market-based electricity calculations are performed using the three-year average for the residual mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. If country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. When available, country-specific factors are used for heating and cooling. When not available, heating and cooling heating factors from the latest UK Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) report is used. Elisa’s core market retail sale of information and communica­ tion equipment is categorised as high climate impact sector G47.4. We do not separate this activity in Elisa’s financial statements. The total energy consumption of Elisa companies relative to revenue (energy intensity) is derived from Elisa’s total energy consumption reported in table ‘Total energy consumption in 2024’ divided by the total revenue of the Elisa group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Elisa reports all the material categories of Scope 3 emission as listed in table Gross GHG emission under significant Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The materiality of the specific categories and companies are based on euro-based threshold. Where the data exceeds the threshold, it is reported under relevant categories. The data used in Scope 3 are obtained either directly from Elisa’s internal systems or from third-party partner reports. Where it is possible to obtain product- and supplier-specific CO2 coefficients, they are used. For example, emissions from electronic products are calculated using supplier- and product-specific factors (e.g.: Apple products, laptops, etc.), and upstream transportation is calculated using supplier-spe­ cific emission factors. When not available, we use the general average or industry-specific factors (e.g: Defra’s emission factors, emission factors from the LIPASTO transport emission database or the average of different life cycle assessment research). 0.12 percent of emissions are calculated based on primary emission data provided directly by the suppliers. Six GHG emission categories are excluded from the calculation – upstream leased assets, downstream transportation, processing of sold products, downstream leased assets, franchising and investments – as they were assessed to be non-material. Elisa does not have significant leased assets under Scope 3 that are not already included in Scopes 1 and 2. Energy consumption at rented sites as well as energy consumption of other operators with leases is calculated and reported in Scope 2. Elisa does not engage in franchising, and emissions from investment and processing of sold products are not relevant. Emissions from downstream transportation are included in the upstream transportation categories. Due to Elisa’s growing international footprint, the boundaries of our reporting and data include new acquisitions made in 2024. Elisa continuously develops its measurements, which may imply changes in the data beyond business or operational changes. In 2024, we thoroughly developed our data collection and management processes and prioritised primary data over secondary estimated or assumed data, resulting in an overall enhancement in data quality. These improvements are noticeable, for example, indirect energy and scope 3 purchased services. Further, we have kept GHG emission factors in Scopes 1 and 2 up to date according to sources provided by third parties. Additionally, we have also updated our GHG emission factors based on the latest available knowledge for Scope 3 emissions. Elisa’s emission impact relative to revenue (emission intensity) is derived from the total emissions of Elisa companies reported in table ‘Total GHG emissions’ divided by the total revenue of the group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Accounting principles – Greenhouse gas emissions Elisa’s energy consumption and GHG emissions include data from all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Elisa takes general principles of calculations into account in its calculations. The boundaries of the calculation are defined so that they best correspond to Elisa’s operations. Reporting covers direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) and upstream and downstream value chain emissions from relevant categories in Scope 3. Direct energy includes fuels, oils and gas purchased by Elisa for its use in mobile (such as company cars) or stationary sources (such as heating systems or generators). Scope 1 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s direct energy consumption and relevant emission factors for each fuel type. The emission factors are derived from the latest Statistics Finland database. Indirect energy includes the consumption of procured heating, cooling and electricity in various facilities (such as office premises, shops, networks, etc.) that Elisa leases or owns. In general, consumption figures are obtained from the lessor (building management company), rental bills or relevant invoices. When the actual consumption is not available, the energy is calculated based on square meters and using facility-specific consumption intensity (kWh/m2). 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy Policies Elisa updated its group-level Environmental Policy in 2024 to advance its goals of resource efficiency, circularity and waste management. The policy focuses on key areas such as reducing waste, enhancing resource efficiency and transi­ tioning toward a circular economy. Elisa promotes reducing reliance on virgin resources and sustainable sourcing by supporting circular design solutions and prioritising circular alternatives whenever feasible. Within its operations, Elisa focuses on extending product lifespans and developing circular business models aimed at phasing out landfill use and minimising non-energy waste incineration. The company also supports its customers and stakeholders in the circular economy by providing circular offerings to customers. At Elisa, we develop our operations with the approach of prioritising prevention, reuse, refurbishing and recycling, and other recovery methods over disposal. We are committed to minimising waste generation through responsible business practices, engaging stakeholders in circularity initiatives and ensuring that the transition to a more circular economy is fair and just for all. More information on the scope and implementation of this policy is described in the section Climate change Our approach As part of double materiality assessment, Elisa has evaluated its impacts, risks and opportunities which is explained in the DMA section of this statement. Elisa does not have manufactu­ ring operations of its own, but we recognise that our business and operations are dependent on using natural resources, which are required to produce devices and equipment that we use and sell. Additionally, we see the resource outflow aspect of the circular economy largely as an opportunity, for example through our device refurbishment and repair business for consumer customers, or by providing device-as- a-service circular economy business models for our corporate customers. Elisa is dependent on upstream value chain climate commitments to reach its climate targets. Through circular economy actions in collaboration with our suppliers, we are continuously improving resource efficiency in our own activities, but also more widely in our value chain. Circularity actions are also important vehicles to positively contribute to our climate and other environmental impacts. We have established business models in our downstream value chain that enable our customers to engage with circular business models. Similarly, we continuously seek ways to improve the resource efficiency of our own operations, through reuse, repair and refurbishment, as well as contributing to second-hand marketplaces. Elisa has not directly engaged with local communities regarding circularity and waste; however, we have regular dialogue and co-operation with our customers and suppliers including waste management partners. Elisa has not identified any communities directly affected or harmed by Elisa’s impacts on resource use and circular economy including waste. We assess our impact to ensure that impacts of our actions do not negatively affect our stakeholders and will evaluate remedy actions if such cases emerge. As the circular economy (including resource inflows and resource outflows-waste) is assessed to be material for Elisa, as part of our climate transition, we have set Elisa group-level Zero Waste 2030 target. Zero waste for us means the conservation of resources in all operations to avoid harmful discharges. Elisa’s Zero Waste 2030 target is voluntary and is not mandated by legislation. It addresses minimising and gradually phasing out waste to landfill. Waste is managed through targeted actions in upstream direct operations and downstream, including proper treatment through circularity processes, such as materials recovery and reuse. The target is divided into three sub-targets. The first sub-target is zero waste in capital goods deliveries, which means minimising and using recyclable packaging materials for network equipment. The second sub-target is zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration, which means minimising waste from offices and stores as well as reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling network equipment. The third sub-target is zero waste until customer handover, which means reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling devices. The progress of performance is reviewed against the target set. The target is aligned with our Environmental policy where we have pledged to manage the material negative impacts and risks of our operations. We have engaged the internal stakeholder in setting the targets. Targets, actions and performance in 2024 Target Scope Performance Key Actions Zero waste in capital goods deliveries (upstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Supplier engagement for climate transition planning, with an initial focus on logistics in Finland. Zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration (direct) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Promoting business opportunity to reuse of network equipment in Finland and Estonia. Updated assessment of waste stream processes in offices, with an initial focus in Finland. Zero waste until customer handover (downstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Development of carbon impact calculation for refurbished and repaired devices in Finland. Improvement and development of device circularity to align with EU taxonomy requirements in Finland. Raising awareness through social media campaign among consumer regarding device circularity and reuse. 75 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Elisa is one of Finland’s largest mobile device retailers, which is why the resources used for manufacturing of devices is material for us. In our role as a service provider, we can have a positive impact on electronic waste and the environment by offering solutions that extend the lifespan and data-secure recycling of devices. The company follows statutory regulations and instructions, also when building its networks. In building and maintaining our network, we have a process for reusing equipment; if doing so is not practically feasible for technical reasons nor financially viable due to, for example, poor energy efficiency, the material of hardware is recycled. In our office premises, recycling and waste management is organised by local partner. Waste-related data is collected through Elisa’s sustainability reporting and monitoring system and is based on data from partners or their own estimates. Performance against the target is monitored in CRMB as well as in relevant Elisa operations. Elisa is committed to supporting solutions designed for circularity through eco-design and extending product lifetimes. This includes reusing, repairing and refurbishing products to enhance their durability, reparability and recyclability, all of which are key components of the transition towards a more circular economy. We are reducing our reliance on new raw material inputs, and our aim is to prioritise sourcing circular alternatives and increasing materials recovery within our own operations. Our commitment extends to seeking the sustainable sourcing of materials, prioritising circular alternatives in our supply chain and safeguarding the health and safety of the workforce. These efforts are in line with the cascading principle of renewable resource use, which emphasises responsible and efficient utilisation of resources. Elisa engages consumers in circular thinking, for example by increasing awareness and promoting device recycling through incentives for customers. We also continue to expand our sustainable and circular offerings, for example through device-as-a-service business models. Resource inflows Manufactured electronic devices, network technologies and batteries make up the majority of inflowing materials. We utilise these technologies to operate our networks and to provide services and products to our customers and end users. These devices and technologies utilise metals and minerals, including some critical and rare materials. Many of these materials have few or no available substitutes and cannot be replaced. Additionally, the inflow also includes batteries, which can include some precious metals. Resource inflows in 2024 Total weight of resource inflow products including packaging (kg) 79,199,692 Percentage of biological materials including packaging (%) 0.4 The absolute weight of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials including packaging (kg) 0 Percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials (%) 0 Accounting principles – Resource inflows The data includes Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As as the resource inflow is most relevant to these businesses. The total weight of products includes all of the manufactured materials, electronic devices and network technologies procured during 2024. The weight data is collected from Elisa’s procurement system, where the supplier provided data is used when available. In case such data is not available, we have used researched estimations. The biological material used or acquired is insignificant, thus we estimate it to be close to zero. Weight and share of secondary reused or recycled materials are estimated to be negligible and thus zero, as we do not have adequate and accurate data to do any justified calculations. To ensure accuracy, we have diligently avoided double counting by using the data from Elisa’s procurement system only once and have used third party assurance of data and calculations. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Resource outflows – Waste Elisa does not manufacture or produce any of the products it offers in the market. Elisa operates as a retailer, supplying products to customers. In this capacity, the resource inflows and outflows – including the products and their packaging volumes – are nearly equivalent. Concerning our network operations, facilities, office premises and businesses, our resource outflows result mainly from electronic waste, which typically includes network equipment, other electronics and batteries (both rechargeable and non-rechargeable) and in addition packaging. The amount of office waste is minimal in Elisa’s waste volume, and we adhere to the waste management principles of reducing, reusing and recycling, in collaboration with local waste management partners. Elisa operates under the Extended Producer Responsibility principles by recycling electronic devices, batteries and accu­ mulators, as well as packaging material. Replaced network equipment is either reused in our own operations, sold to the second-hand market or recycled through our third-party partner. The pieces of equipment that are handed over to a third-party partner for further refurbishment and sales are first collected and examined by Elisa to assess whether they are commercially viable, before being packaged for transporta­ tion. Our shops in Finland and Estonia have WEEE collection receptacles for consumer electronic consumables, through which e.g. devices are taken for re-processing to become materials for new electronic products. Our shops in Finland have specific collection boxes for recycling mobile devices and other portable devices. We offer monetary compensation for phones eligible for reuse, for example, when purchasing a new device. Collected devices are repaired, refurbished and reintroduced to the market for consumers, contributing to the circular economy. Additionally, Elisa also complies with local laws as part of producer responsibility, for example in Finland regarding the recycling of packing waste Total waste generated in 2024 Total amount of waste (kg) 838,763 Non-recycled waste (kg) 219,803 Non-recycled waste (%) 26 Total amount of hazardous waste (kg) 356,435 Total waste diverted from disposal (kg) 675,699 Hazardous waste (kg) 356,415 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 356,415 Other recovery operations (kg) N/A Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 319,284 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 262,545 Other recovery operations (kg) 56,739 Total waste directed to disposal (kg) 163,065 Hazardous waste (kg) 20 Incineration (kg) N/A Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) 20 Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 163,045 Incineration (kg) 163,045 Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) N/A Accounting principles – Resource outflows – Waste The data includes all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. Elisa’s waste volumes consist of materials generated directly across various facilities (such as offices, shops and network infrastructure sites) and are predominantly linked to our business operations. Most of the waste is comprised of battery waste and WEEE (encompassing technology equipment and consumer electronic products), as well as metal and packaging waste. In addition, office waste forms a minor portion of our total waste volume and typically includes materials such as paper, cardboard and biowaste. The composition of these waste streams includes several types of materials, notably minerals, metals and critical materials from technology equipment and batteries, plastics from packaging materials and biomass from office biowaste. Waste data is systematically gathered through reports from our waste management partners or building management, ensuring accuracy. In cases where actual data is unavailable, particularly in certain office locations, estimates based on office headcount are used, as this directly correlates with waste generation. However, the estimated data amounts to less than 3 percent of Elisa’s total waste volume. 77 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Gross scopes 1, 2, 3 and total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions Retrospective Milestones and target years Base year (2021) Comparative (2023) N (2024) % N/N-1 2025 2030 2040 Annual % target (2030)/ base year (2021) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 5,927 4,084 925 22.7 860 3,438 593 5 Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 53,510 63,047 44,025 69.8 40,943 31,036 5,351 5 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 2,328 1,595 1,432 89.8 1,332 1,350 233 5 Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 238,961 268,877 240,458 89.4 223,626 138,597 23,896 5 (1) Purchased goods and services 140,994 146,646 124,520 84.9 115,803 81,777 14,099 5 (2) Capital goods 40,669 36,219 30,085 83.1 27,979 23,588 4,067 5 (3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 24,483 28,201 29,819 105.7 27,731 14,200 2,448 5 (4) Upstream transportation and distribution 257 451 280 62.0 260 149 26 5 (5) Waste generated in operations 425 673 517 76.9 481 247 43 5 (6) Business travel 406 2,233 1,358 60.8 1,263 235 41 5 (7) Employee commuting 1,736 1,987 1,896 95.4 1,764 1,007 174 5 (8) Upstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (9) Downstream transportation N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (10) Processing of sold products N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (11) Use of sold products 28,959 49,512 49,289 99.5 45,839 16,796 2,896 5 (12) End-of-life treatment of sold products 1,032 2,955 2,694 91.2 2,505 599 103 5 (13) Downstream leased assets N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (14) Franchises N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A (15) Investments N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) (tCO2eq) 298,398 336,009 285,408 265,429 173,071 29,840 5 Total GHG emissions (market-based) (tCO2eq) 247,216 274,556 242,815 225,818 143,385 24,722 5 73 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"GHG intensity based on net revenue GHG intensity per net revenue N (2024) N-1 (2023) % N / N-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00013 0.00015 84 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00011 0.00013 88 Scope 2 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s indirect energy consumption. Elisa reports both location-based and market-based figures. Location-based emissions for electricity consumption are calculated by using the three-year average for the total supplier mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. In cases where country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. Market-based electricity calculations are performed using the three-year average for the residual mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. If country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. When available, country-specific factors are used for heating and cooling. When not available, heating and cooling heating factors from the latest UK Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) report is used. Elisa’s core market retail sale of information and communica­ tion equipment is categorised as high climate impact sector G47.4. We do not separate this activity in Elisa’s financial statements. The total energy consumption of Elisa companies relative to revenue (energy intensity) is derived from Elisa’s total energy consumption reported in table ‘Total energy consumption in 2024’ divided by the total revenue of the Elisa group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Elisa reports all the material categories of Scope 3 emission as listed in table Gross GHG emission under significant Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The materiality of the specific categories and companies are based on euro-based threshold. Where the data exceeds the threshold, it is reported under relevant categories. The data used in Scope 3 are obtained either directly from Elisa’s internal systems or from third-party partner reports. Where it is possible to obtain product- and supplier-specific CO2 coefficients, they are used. For example, emissions from electronic products are calculated using supplier- and product-specific factors (e.g.: Apple products, laptops, etc.), and upstream transportation is calculated using supplier-spe­ cific emission factors. When not available, we use the general average or industry-specific factors (e.g: Defra’s emission factors, emission factors from the LIPASTO transport emission database or the average of different life cycle assessment research). 0.12 percent of emissions are calculated based on primary emission data provided directly by the suppliers. Six GHG emission categories are excluded from the calculation – upstream leased assets, downstream transportation, processing of sold products, downstream leased assets, franchising and investments – as they were assessed to be non-material. Elisa does not have significant leased assets under Scope 3 that are not already included in Scopes 1 and 2. Energy consumption at rented sites as well as energy consumption of other operators with leases is calculated and reported in Scope 2. Elisa does not engage in franchising, and emissions from investment and processing of sold products are not relevant. Emissions from downstream transportation are included in the upstream transportation categories. Due to Elisa’s growing international footprint, the boundaries of our reporting and data include new acquisitions made in 2024. Elisa continuously develops its measurements, which may imply changes in the data beyond business or operational changes. In 2024, we thoroughly developed our data collection and management processes and prioritised primary data over secondary estimated or assumed data, resulting in an overall enhancement in data quality. These improvements are noticeable, for example, indirect energy and scope 3 purchased services. Further, we have kept GHG emission factors in Scopes 1 and 2 up to date according to sources provided by third parties. Additionally, we have also updated our GHG emission factors based on the latest available knowledge for Scope 3 emissions. Elisa’s emission impact relative to revenue (emission intensity) is derived from the total emissions of Elisa companies reported in table ‘Total GHG emissions’ divided by the total revenue of the group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Accounting principles – Greenhouse gas emissions Elisa’s energy consumption and GHG emissions include data from all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Elisa takes general principles of calculations into account in its calculations. The boundaries of the calculation are defined so that they best correspond to Elisa’s operations. Reporting covers direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) and upstream and downstream value chain emissions from relevant categories in Scope 3. Direct energy includes fuels, oils and gas purchased by Elisa for its use in mobile (such as company cars) or stationary sources (such as heating systems or generators). Scope 1 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s direct energy consumption and relevant emission factors for each fuel type. The emission factors are derived from the latest Statistics Finland database. Indirect energy includes the consumption of procured heating, cooling and electricity in various facilities (such as office premises, shops, networks, etc.) that Elisa leases or owns. In general, consumption figures are obtained from the lessor (building management company), rental bills or relevant invoices. When the actual consumption is not available, the energy is calculated based on square meters and using facility-specific consumption intensity (kWh/m2). 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy Policies Elisa updated its group-level Environmental Policy in 2024 to advance its goals of resource efficiency, circularity and waste management. The policy focuses on key areas such as reducing waste, enhancing resource efficiency and transi­ tioning toward a circular economy. Elisa promotes reducing reliance on virgin resources and sustainable sourcing by supporting circular design solutions and prioritising circular alternatives whenever feasible. Within its operations, Elisa focuses on extending product lifespans and developing circular business models aimed at phasing out landfill use and minimising non-energy waste incineration. The company also supports its customers and stakeholders in the circular economy by providing circular offerings to customers. At Elisa, we develop our operations with the approach of prioritising prevention, reuse, refurbishing and recycling, and other recovery methods over disposal. We are committed to minimising waste generation through responsible business practices, engaging stakeholders in circularity initiatives and ensuring that the transition to a more circular economy is fair and just for all. More information on the scope and implementation of this policy is described in the section Climate change Our approach As part of double materiality assessment, Elisa has evaluated its impacts, risks and opportunities which is explained in the DMA section of this statement. Elisa does not have manufactu­ ring operations of its own, but we recognise that our business and operations are dependent on using natural resources, which are required to produce devices and equipment that we use and sell. Additionally, we see the resource outflow aspect of the circular economy largely as an opportunity, for example through our device refurbishment and repair business for consumer customers, or by providing device-as- a-service circular economy business models for our corporate customers. Elisa is dependent on upstream value chain climate commitments to reach its climate targets. Through circular economy actions in collaboration with our suppliers, we are continuously improving resource efficiency in our own activities, but also more widely in our value chain. Circularity actions are also important vehicles to positively contribute to our climate and other environmental impacts. We have established business models in our downstream value chain that enable our customers to engage with circular business models. Similarly, we continuously seek ways to improve the resource efficiency of our own operations, through reuse, repair and refurbishment, as well as contributing to second-hand marketplaces. Elisa has not directly engaged with local communities regarding circularity and waste; however, we have regular dialogue and co-operation with our customers and suppliers including waste management partners. Elisa has not identified any communities directly affected or harmed by Elisa’s impacts on resource use and circular economy including waste. We assess our impact to ensure that impacts of our actions do not negatively affect our stakeholders and will evaluate remedy actions if such cases emerge. As the circular economy (including resource inflows and resource outflows-waste) is assessed to be material for Elisa, as part of our climate transition, we have set Elisa group-level Zero Waste 2030 target. Zero waste for us means the conservation of resources in all operations to avoid harmful discharges. Elisa’s Zero Waste 2030 target is voluntary and is not mandated by legislation. It addresses minimising and gradually phasing out waste to landfill. Waste is managed through targeted actions in upstream direct operations and downstream, including proper treatment through circularity processes, such as materials recovery and reuse. The target is divided into three sub-targets. The first sub-target is zero waste in capital goods deliveries, which means minimising and using recyclable packaging materials for network equipment. The second sub-target is zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration, which means minimising waste from offices and stores as well as reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling network equipment. The third sub-target is zero waste until customer handover, which means reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling devices. The progress of performance is reviewed against the target set. The target is aligned with our Environmental policy where we have pledged to manage the material negative impacts and risks of our operations. We have engaged the internal stakeholder in setting the targets. Targets, actions and performance in 2024 Target Scope Performance Key Actions Zero waste in capital goods deliveries (upstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Supplier engagement for climate transition planning, with an initial focus on logistics in Finland. Zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration (direct) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Promoting business opportunity to reuse of network equipment in Finland and Estonia. Updated assessment of waste stream processes in offices, with an initial focus in Finland. Zero waste until customer handover (downstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Development of carbon impact calculation for refurbished and repaired devices in Finland. Improvement and development of device circularity to align with EU taxonomy requirements in Finland. Raising awareness through social media campaign among consumer regarding device circularity and reuse. 75 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Elisa is one of Finland’s largest mobile device retailers, which is why the resources used for manufacturing of devices is material for us. In our role as a service provider, we can have a positive impact on electronic waste and the environment by offering solutions that extend the lifespan and data-secure recycling of devices. The company follows statutory regulations and instructions, also when building its networks. In building and maintaining our network, we have a process for reusing equipment; if doing so is not practically feasible for technical reasons nor financially viable due to, for example, poor energy efficiency, the material of hardware is recycled. In our office premises, recycling and waste management is organised by local partner. Waste-related data is collected through Elisa’s sustainability reporting and monitoring system and is based on data from partners or their own estimates. Performance against the target is monitored in CRMB as well as in relevant Elisa operations. Elisa is committed to supporting solutions designed for circularity through eco-design and extending product lifetimes. This includes reusing, repairing and refurbishing products to enhance their durability, reparability and recyclability, all of which are key components of the transition towards a more circular economy. We are reducing our reliance on new raw material inputs, and our aim is to prioritise sourcing circular alternatives and increasing materials recovery within our own operations. Our commitment extends to seeking the sustainable sourcing of materials, prioritising circular alternatives in our supply chain and safeguarding the health and safety of the workforce. These efforts are in line with the cascading principle of renewable resource use, which emphasises responsible and efficient utilisation of resources. Elisa engages consumers in circular thinking, for example by increasing awareness and promoting device recycling through incentives for customers. We also continue to expand our sustainable and circular offerings, for example through device-as-a-service business models. Resource inflows Manufactured electronic devices, network technologies and batteries make up the majority of inflowing materials. We utilise these technologies to operate our networks and to provide services and products to our customers and end users. These devices and technologies utilise metals and minerals, including some critical and rare materials. Many of these materials have few or no available substitutes and cannot be replaced. Additionally, the inflow also includes batteries, which can include some precious metals. Resource inflows in 2024 Total weight of resource inflow products including packaging (kg) 79,199,692 Percentage of biological materials including packaging (%) 0.4 The absolute weight of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials including packaging (kg) 0 Percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials (%) 0 Accounting principles – Resource inflows The data includes Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As as the resource inflow is most relevant to these businesses. The total weight of products includes all of the manufactured materials, electronic devices and network technologies procured during 2024. The weight data is collected from Elisa’s procurement system, where the supplier provided data is used when available. In case such data is not available, we have used researched estimations. The biological material used or acquired is insignificant, thus we estimate it to be close to zero. Weight and share of secondary reused or recycled materials are estimated to be negligible and thus zero, as we do not have adequate and accurate data to do any justified calculations. To ensure accuracy, we have diligently avoided double counting by using the data from Elisa’s procurement system only once and have used third party assurance of data and calculations. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Resource outflows – Waste Elisa does not manufacture or produce any of the products it offers in the market. Elisa operates as a retailer, supplying products to customers. In this capacity, the resource inflows and outflows – including the products and their packaging volumes – are nearly equivalent. Concerning our network operations, facilities, office premises and businesses, our resource outflows result mainly from electronic waste, which typically includes network equipment, other electronics and batteries (both rechargeable and non-rechargeable) and in addition packaging. The amount of office waste is minimal in Elisa’s waste volume, and we adhere to the waste management principles of reducing, reusing and recycling, in collaboration with local waste management partners. Elisa operates under the Extended Producer Responsibility principles by recycling electronic devices, batteries and accu­ mulators, as well as packaging material. Replaced network equipment is either reused in our own operations, sold to the second-hand market or recycled through our third-party partner. The pieces of equipment that are handed over to a third-party partner for further refurbishment and sales are first collected and examined by Elisa to assess whether they are commercially viable, before being packaged for transporta­ tion. Our shops in Finland and Estonia have WEEE collection receptacles for consumer electronic consumables, through which e.g. devices are taken for re-processing to become materials for new electronic products. Our shops in Finland have specific collection boxes for recycling mobile devices and other portable devices. We offer monetary compensation for phones eligible for reuse, for example, when purchasing a new device. Collected devices are repaired, refurbished and reintroduced to the market for consumers, contributing to the circular economy. Additionally, Elisa also complies with local laws as part of producer responsibility, for example in Finland regarding the recycling of packing waste Total waste generated in 2024 Total amount of waste (kg) 838,763 Non-recycled waste (kg) 219,803 Non-recycled waste (%) 26 Total amount of hazardous waste (kg) 356,435 Total waste diverted from disposal (kg) 675,699 Hazardous waste (kg) 356,415 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 356,415 Other recovery operations (kg) N/A Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 319,284 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 262,545 Other recovery operations (kg) 56,739 Total waste directed to disposal (kg) 163,065 Hazardous waste (kg) 20 Incineration (kg) N/A Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) 20 Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 163,045 Incineration (kg) 163,045 Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) N/A Accounting principles – Resource outflows – Waste The data includes all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. Elisa’s waste volumes consist of materials generated directly across various facilities (such as offices, shops and network infrastructure sites) and are predominantly linked to our business operations. Most of the waste is comprised of battery waste and WEEE (encompassing technology equipment and consumer electronic products), as well as metal and packaging waste. In addition, office waste forms a minor portion of our total waste volume and typically includes materials such as paper, cardboard and biowaste. The composition of these waste streams includes several types of materials, notably minerals, metals and critical materials from technology equipment and batteries, plastics from packaging materials and biomass from office biowaste. Waste data is systematically gathered through reports from our waste management partners or building management, ensuring accuracy. In cases where actual data is unavailable, particularly in certain office locations, estimates based on office headcount are used, as this directly correlates with waste generation. However, the estimated data amounts to less than 3 percent of Elisa’s total waste volume. 77 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"GHG intensity based on net revenue GHG intensity per net revenue N (2024) N-1 (2023) % N / N-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00013 0.00015 84 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/EUR) 0.00011 0.00013 88 Scope 2 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s indirect energy consumption. Elisa reports both location-based and market-based figures. Location-based emissions for electricity consumption are calculated by using the three-year average for the total supplier mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. In cases where country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. Market-based electricity calculations are performed using the three-year average for the residual mix from the latest European Residual Mix reports. For companies outside the EU, country-specific data is used, when available. If country-specific data is not available, global averages are used. When available, country-specific factors are used for heating and cooling. When not available, heating and cooling heating factors from the latest UK Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) report is used. Elisa’s core market retail sale of information and communica­ tion equipment is categorised as high climate impact sector G47.4. We do not separate this activity in Elisa’s financial statements. The total energy consumption of Elisa companies relative to revenue (energy intensity) is derived from Elisa’s total energy consumption reported in table ‘Total energy consumption in 2024’ divided by the total revenue of the Elisa group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Elisa reports all the material categories of Scope 3 emission as listed in table Gross GHG emission under significant Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The materiality of the specific categories and companies are based on euro-based threshold. Where the data exceeds the threshold, it is reported under relevant categories. The data used in Scope 3 are obtained either directly from Elisa’s internal systems or from third-party partner reports. Where it is possible to obtain product- and supplier-specific CO2 coefficients, they are used. For example, emissions from electronic products are calculated using supplier- and product-specific factors (e.g.: Apple products, laptops, etc.), and upstream transportation is calculated using supplier-spe­ cific emission factors. When not available, we use the general average or industry-specific factors (e.g: Defra’s emission factors, emission factors from the LIPASTO transport emission database or the average of different life cycle assessment research). 0.12 percent of emissions are calculated based on primary emission data provided directly by the suppliers. Six GHG emission categories are excluded from the calculation – upstream leased assets, downstream transportation, processing of sold products, downstream leased assets, franchising and investments – as they were assessed to be non-material. Elisa does not have significant leased assets under Scope 3 that are not already included in Scopes 1 and 2. Energy consumption at rented sites as well as energy consumption of other operators with leases is calculated and reported in Scope 2. Elisa does not engage in franchising, and emissions from investment and processing of sold products are not relevant. Emissions from downstream transportation are included in the upstream transportation categories. Due to Elisa’s growing international footprint, the boundaries of our reporting and data include new acquisitions made in 2024. Elisa continuously develops its measurements, which may imply changes in the data beyond business or operational changes. In 2024, we thoroughly developed our data collection and management processes and prioritised primary data over secondary estimated or assumed data, resulting in an overall enhancement in data quality. These improvements are noticeable, for example, indirect energy and scope 3 purchased services. Further, we have kept GHG emission factors in Scopes 1 and 2 up to date according to sources provided by third parties. Additionally, we have also updated our GHG emission factors based on the latest available knowledge for Scope 3 emissions. Elisa’s emission impact relative to revenue (emission intensity) is derived from the total emissions of Elisa companies reported in table ‘Total GHG emissions’ divided by the total revenue of the group’s income statement (Note 2.3 of consolidated financial statements). Accounting principles – Greenhouse gas emissions Elisa’s energy consumption and GHG emissions include data from all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Elisa takes general principles of calculations into account in its calculations. The boundaries of the calculation are defined so that they best correspond to Elisa’s operations. Reporting covers direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) and upstream and downstream value chain emissions from relevant categories in Scope 3. Direct energy includes fuels, oils and gas purchased by Elisa for its use in mobile (such as company cars) or stationary sources (such as heating systems or generators). Scope 1 emission calculations are based on Elisa’s direct energy consumption and relevant emission factors for each fuel type. The emission factors are derived from the latest Statistics Finland database. Indirect energy includes the consumption of procured heating, cooling and electricity in various facilities (such as office premises, shops, networks, etc.) that Elisa leases or owns. In general, consumption figures are obtained from the lessor (building management company), rental bills or relevant invoices. When the actual consumption is not available, the energy is calculated based on square meters and using facility-specific consumption intensity (kWh/m2). 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy Policies Elisa updated its group-level Environmental Policy in 2024 to advance its goals of resource efficiency, circularity and waste management. The policy focuses on key areas such as reducing waste, enhancing resource efficiency and transi­ tioning toward a circular economy. Elisa promotes reducing reliance on virgin resources and sustainable sourcing by supporting circular design solutions and prioritising circular alternatives whenever feasible. Within its operations, Elisa focuses on extending product lifespans and developing circular business models aimed at phasing out landfill use and minimising non-energy waste incineration. The company also supports its customers and stakeholders in the circular economy by providing circular offerings to customers. At Elisa, we develop our operations with the approach of prioritising prevention, reuse, refurbishing and recycling, and other recovery methods over disposal. We are committed to minimising waste generation through responsible business practices, engaging stakeholders in circularity initiatives and ensuring that the transition to a more circular economy is fair and just for all. More information on the scope and implementation of this policy is described in the section Climate change Our approach As part of double materiality assessment, Elisa has evaluated its impacts, risks and opportunities which is explained in the DMA section of this statement. Elisa does not have manufactu­ ring operations of its own, but we recognise that our business and operations are dependent on using natural resources, which are required to produce devices and equipment that we use and sell. Additionally, we see the resource outflow aspect of the circular economy largely as an opportunity, for example through our device refurbishment and repair business for consumer customers, or by providing device-as- a-service circular economy business models for our corporate customers. Elisa is dependent on upstream value chain climate commitments to reach its climate targets. Through circular economy actions in collaboration with our suppliers, we are continuously improving resource efficiency in our own activities, but also more widely in our value chain. Circularity actions are also important vehicles to positively contribute to our climate and other environmental impacts. We have established business models in our downstream value chain that enable our customers to engage with circular business models. Similarly, we continuously seek ways to improve the resource efficiency of our own operations, through reuse, repair and refurbishment, as well as contributing to second-hand marketplaces. Elisa has not directly engaged with local communities regarding circularity and waste; however, we have regular dialogue and co-operation with our customers and suppliers including waste management partners. Elisa has not identified any communities directly affected or harmed by Elisa’s impacts on resource use and circular economy including waste. We assess our impact to ensure that impacts of our actions do not negatively affect our stakeholders and will evaluate remedy actions if such cases emerge. As the circular economy (including resource inflows and resource outflows-waste) is assessed to be material for Elisa, as part of our climate transition, we have set Elisa group-level Zero Waste 2030 target. Zero waste for us means the conservation of resources in all operations to avoid harmful discharges. Elisa’s Zero Waste 2030 target is voluntary and is not mandated by legislation. It addresses minimising and gradually phasing out waste to landfill. Waste is managed through targeted actions in upstream direct operations and downstream, including proper treatment through circularity processes, such as materials recovery and reuse. The target is divided into three sub-targets. The first sub-target is zero waste in capital goods deliveries, which means minimising and using recyclable packaging materials for network equipment. The second sub-target is zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration, which means minimising waste from offices and stores as well as reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling network equipment. The third sub-target is zero waste until customer handover, which means reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling devices. The progress of performance is reviewed against the target set. The target is aligned with our Environmental policy where we have pledged to manage the material negative impacts and risks of our operations. We have engaged the internal stakeholder in setting the targets. Targets, actions and performance in 2024 Target Scope Performance Key Actions Zero waste in capital goods deliveries (upstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Supplier engagement for climate transition planning, with an initial focus on logistics in Finland. Zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration (direct) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Promoting business opportunity to reuse of network equipment in Finland and Estonia. Updated assessment of waste stream processes in offices, with an initial focus in Finland. Zero waste until customer handover (downstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Development of carbon impact calculation for refurbished and repaired devices in Finland. Improvement and development of device circularity to align with EU taxonomy requirements in Finland. Raising awareness through social media campaign among consumer regarding device circularity and reuse. 75 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Elisa is one of Finland’s largest mobile device retailers, which is why the resources used for manufacturing of devices is material for us. In our role as a service provider, we can have a positive impact on electronic waste and the environment by offering solutions that extend the lifespan and data-secure recycling of devices. The company follows statutory regulations and instructions, also when building its networks. In building and maintaining our network, we have a process for reusing equipment; if doing so is not practically feasible for technical reasons nor financially viable due to, for example, poor energy efficiency, the material of hardware is recycled. In our office premises, recycling and waste management is organised by local partner. Waste-related data is collected through Elisa’s sustainability reporting and monitoring system and is based on data from partners or their own estimates. Performance against the target is monitored in CRMB as well as in relevant Elisa operations. Elisa is committed to supporting solutions designed for circularity through eco-design and extending product lifetimes. This includes reusing, repairing and refurbishing products to enhance their durability, reparability and recyclability, all of which are key components of the transition towards a more circular economy. We are reducing our reliance on new raw material inputs, and our aim is to prioritise sourcing circular alternatives and increasing materials recovery within our own operations. Our commitment extends to seeking the sustainable sourcing of materials, prioritising circular alternatives in our supply chain and safeguarding the health and safety of the workforce. These efforts are in line with the cascading principle of renewable resource use, which emphasises responsible and efficient utilisation of resources. Elisa engages consumers in circular thinking, for example by increasing awareness and promoting device recycling through incentives for customers. We also continue to expand our sustainable and circular offerings, for example through device-as-a-service business models. Resource inflows Manufactured electronic devices, network technologies and batteries make up the majority of inflowing materials. We utilise these technologies to operate our networks and to provide services and products to our customers and end users. These devices and technologies utilise metals and minerals, including some critical and rare materials. Many of these materials have few or no available substitutes and cannot be replaced. Additionally, the inflow also includes batteries, which can include some precious metals. Resource inflows in 2024 Total weight of resource inflow products including packaging (kg) 79,199,692 Percentage of biological materials including packaging (%) 0.4 The absolute weight of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials including packaging (kg) 0 Percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials (%) 0 Accounting principles – Resource inflows The data includes Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As as the resource inflow is most relevant to these businesses. The total weight of products includes all of the manufactured materials, electronic devices and network technologies procured during 2024. The weight data is collected from Elisa’s procurement system, where the supplier provided data is used when available. In case such data is not available, we have used researched estimations. The biological material used or acquired is insignificant, thus we estimate it to be close to zero. Weight and share of secondary reused or recycled materials are estimated to be negligible and thus zero, as we do not have adequate and accurate data to do any justified calculations. To ensure accuracy, we have diligently avoided double counting by using the data from Elisa’s procurement system only once and have used third party assurance of data and calculations. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Resource outflows – Waste Elisa does not manufacture or produce any of the products it offers in the market. Elisa operates as a retailer, supplying products to customers. In this capacity, the resource inflows and outflows – including the products and their packaging volumes – are nearly equivalent. Concerning our network operations, facilities, office premises and businesses, our resource outflows result mainly from electronic waste, which typically includes network equipment, other electronics and batteries (both rechargeable and non-rechargeable) and in addition packaging. The amount of office waste is minimal in Elisa’s waste volume, and we adhere to the waste management principles of reducing, reusing and recycling, in collaboration with local waste management partners. Elisa operates under the Extended Producer Responsibility principles by recycling electronic devices, batteries and accu­ mulators, as well as packaging material. Replaced network equipment is either reused in our own operations, sold to the second-hand market or recycled through our third-party partner. The pieces of equipment that are handed over to a third-party partner for further refurbishment and sales are first collected and examined by Elisa to assess whether they are commercially viable, before being packaged for transporta­ tion. Our shops in Finland and Estonia have WEEE collection receptacles for consumer electronic consumables, through which e.g. devices are taken for re-processing to become materials for new electronic products. Our shops in Finland have specific collection boxes for recycling mobile devices and other portable devices. We offer monetary compensation for phones eligible for reuse, for example, when purchasing a new device. Collected devices are repaired, refurbished and reintroduced to the market for consumers, contributing to the circular economy. Additionally, Elisa also complies with local laws as part of producer responsibility, for example in Finland regarding the recycling of packing waste Total waste generated in 2024 Total amount of waste (kg) 838,763 Non-recycled waste (kg) 219,803 Non-recycled waste (%) 26 Total amount of hazardous waste (kg) 356,435 Total waste diverted from disposal (kg) 675,699 Hazardous waste (kg) 356,415 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 356,415 Other recovery operations (kg) N/A Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 319,284 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 262,545 Other recovery operations (kg) 56,739 Total waste directed to disposal (kg) 163,065 Hazardous waste (kg) 20 Incineration (kg) N/A Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) 20 Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 163,045 Incineration (kg) 163,045 Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) N/A Accounting principles – Resource outflows – Waste The data includes all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. Elisa’s waste volumes consist of materials generated directly across various facilities (such as offices, shops and network infrastructure sites) and are predominantly linked to our business operations. Most of the waste is comprised of battery waste and WEEE (encompassing technology equipment and consumer electronic products), as well as metal and packaging waste. In addition, office waste forms a minor portion of our total waste volume and typically includes materials such as paper, cardboard and biowaste. The composition of these waste streams includes several types of materials, notably minerals, metals and critical materials from technology equipment and batteries, plastics from packaging materials and biomass from office biowaste. Waste data is systematically gathered through reports from our waste management partners or building management, ensuring accuracy. In cases where actual data is unavailable, particularly in certain office locations, estimates based on office headcount are used, as this directly correlates with waste generation. However, the estimated data amounts to less than 3 percent of Elisa’s total waste volume. 77 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS S1 Own workers Policies Elisa acknowledges the universal and absolute nature of fundamental human rights that protect the freedom, dignity and equality of all people. Elisa is committed to respecting human rights in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises throughout our value chain. Elisa is committed to respecting the human rights and labour rights of everyone working for Elisa, either directly as an employee or indirectly as non-employees. Our commitment and statement are established through our Human Rights Policy and Code of Conduct. We always comply with local labour legislation and collective labour agreements in the countries where we operate. The Code of Conduct establishes the framework for our business operations and sets out the ethical standards for Elisa group employees, businesses and partners. More information on the Code of Conduct is described in the section Business Conduct. Elisa’s Human Rights Policy – which was updated in 2024 – sets the foundations for and guides our development of our human rights due diligence process across all our operations and chains of activities as well as the framework for Elisa’s human rights commitment. It was updated according to Elisa’s human rights impact assessment results. Impact assessment was conducted in alignment with the UNGPs, and it takes in consideration internationalisation of Elisa operations and the evolution of human rights due diligence process. The policy applies to Elisa, the entities that it owns or in which it holds a majority interest, and the operations that it manages. Elisa expects its workers, business partners and other parties whose own impacts may be directly linked to Elisa’s operations, products or services to respect and not infringe upon human rights. The Elisa policy on human rights highlights our dedication to ensure a workplace free from harassment, bullying and discrimination, and to treat everyone equally in recruitment, career and learning opportunities, compensation, and in termination of work relation. Elisa does not tolerate any form of human trafficking, forced labour, bonded labour or slavery, or any form of modern slavery, within Elisa or in its chain of activities. In cases where the company identifies potential adverse human rights impacts, it is committed to promptly and effectively providing and enabling remedies. Elisa’s grievance and remediation approach includes addressing any adverse human rights impacts that the company has caused or contributed to that affect individuals, workers or communities. Health and safety Elisa’s occupational health and safety practices are lead through good management and action programmes that are part of our daily work. The development of the working environment is the right and duty of every employee. Employees can participate in and influence the handling of occupational health and safety (OHS) issues in the workplace. Elisa complies the occupational health and safety legislation of each country where it operates. S – Social Occupational healthcare operates in accordance with good occupational healthcare practice. It aims to ensure a healthy and safe working environment and a well-functioning work community, to prevent of work-related illnesses, and to maintain and promote the working ability and functional capacity of Elisa employees. An annual action plan covering all units and localities and has the key objectives of occu­ pational health care. The functionality and effectiveness of occupational healthcare are monitored via e.g. reports on sickness-related absences and occupational healthcare costs, as well as user feedback. Elisa’s human resource functions are responsible for the procurement and development of occupational health care. In addition to that, Elisa has established a working environment committee that addresses OHS issues at the Elisa Corporation level in Finland and coordinates the activities of the OHS organisation and programs. The working environment committee monitors the implementation of occupational health care services and makes development suggestions. Additio­ nally, the committee is responsible for drawing up the OHS action program, determining measures for monitoring the healthiness and safety of workplaces and monitoring accidents and sickness-related absences at the company level. Working environment teams monitor sickness-related absences on a location/region/activity-specific basis. Elisa collects, records, and measures the number of work-related injuries of its subcontractors both in Finland and Estonia. Also, we follow local laws and guidance and cooperate closely with the subcontractors to ensure the safety of performing the job. 95 percent of Elisa’s employees are covered with OHS, and no fatalities have occurred in the last three years. Information about healthcare services is available on Elisa’s intranet pages, and it is also included in employees’ induction. Diversity, equity and inclusion As an employer, Elisa follows principles of non-discrimination and equality in all our operations, and we also require compliance with these principles from all of our partners. We promote equality throughout the entire life cycle of employment. Diverse workforce enriches our perspectives, promotes innovation and supports learning together. At Elisa, equality and equity are steered by several guidelines and principles, the most important of which are Elisa’s values and the Elisa Code of Conduct. Every employee conducts mandatory training in the Elisa Code of Conduct, which introduces Elisa’s non-discrimination principles. The occupational health and safety, human rights and remote working policies strengthen equality and equity, and they are also promoted through our daily management practices. Responsibility for implementing these practices and ensuring adequate resource allocation is assigned to Elisa’s Executive Vice President of human resource function, who oversees the integration of these values into our operations. Elisa develops workplaces and working practices to provide adequate and safe working conditions for all, making reasonable accommodations where necessary. The company also welcomes equal access to family leave. To facilitate employees’, return to work after family leave or other longer absences, we usually agree with employees about sharing information on current issues. Adequate reorientation training is provided for those returning from family leave. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Environment Governance Assurance Annexes Social"
"ESRS E5 Resource use and circular economy Policies Elisa updated its group-level Environmental Policy in 2024 to advance its goals of resource efficiency, circularity and waste management. The policy focuses on key areas such as reducing waste, enhancing resource efficiency and transi­ tioning toward a circular economy. Elisa promotes reducing reliance on virgin resources and sustainable sourcing by supporting circular design solutions and prioritising circular alternatives whenever feasible. Within its operations, Elisa focuses on extending product lifespans and developing circular business models aimed at phasing out landfill use and minimising non-energy waste incineration. The company also supports its customers and stakeholders in the circular economy by providing circular offerings to customers. At Elisa, we develop our operations with the approach of prioritising prevention, reuse, refurbishing and recycling, and other recovery methods over disposal. We are committed to minimising waste generation through responsible business practices, engaging stakeholders in circularity initiatives and ensuring that the transition to a more circular economy is fair and just for all. More information on the scope and implementation of this policy is described in the section Climate change Our approach As part of double materiality assessment, Elisa has evaluated its impacts, risks and opportunities which is explained in the DMA section of this statement. Elisa does not have manufactu­ ring operations of its own, but we recognise that our business and operations are dependent on using natural resources, which are required to produce devices and equipment that we use and sell. Additionally, we see the resource outflow aspect of the circular economy largely as an opportunity, for example through our device refurbishment and repair business for consumer customers, or by providing device-as- a-service circular economy business models for our corporate customers. Elisa is dependent on upstream value chain climate commitments to reach its climate targets. Through circular economy actions in collaboration with our suppliers, we are continuously improving resource efficiency in our own activities, but also more widely in our value chain. Circularity actions are also important vehicles to positively contribute to our climate and other environmental impacts. We have established business models in our downstream value chain that enable our customers to engage with circular business models. Similarly, we continuously seek ways to improve the resource efficiency of our own operations, through reuse, repair and refurbishment, as well as contributing to second-hand marketplaces. Elisa has not directly engaged with local communities regarding circularity and waste; however, we have regular dialogue and co-operation with our customers and suppliers including waste management partners. Elisa has not identified any communities directly affected or harmed by Elisa’s impacts on resource use and circular economy including waste. We assess our impact to ensure that impacts of our actions do not negatively affect our stakeholders and will evaluate remedy actions if such cases emerge. As the circular economy (including resource inflows and resource outflows-waste) is assessed to be material for Elisa, as part of our climate transition, we have set Elisa group-level Zero Waste 2030 target. Zero waste for us means the conservation of resources in all operations to avoid harmful discharges. Elisa’s Zero Waste 2030 target is voluntary and is not mandated by legislation. It addresses minimising and gradually phasing out waste to landfill. Waste is managed through targeted actions in upstream direct operations and downstream, including proper treatment through circularity processes, such as materials recovery and reuse. The target is divided into three sub-targets. The first sub-target is zero waste in capital goods deliveries, which means minimising and using recyclable packaging materials for network equipment. The second sub-target is zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration, which means minimising waste from offices and stores as well as reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling network equipment. The third sub-target is zero waste until customer handover, which means reusing, refurbishing and responsibly recycling devices. The progress of performance is reviewed against the target set. The target is aligned with our Environmental policy where we have pledged to manage the material negative impacts and risks of our operations. We have engaged the internal stakeholder in setting the targets. Targets, actions and performance in 2024 Target Scope Performance Key Actions Zero waste in capital goods deliveries (upstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Supplier engagement for climate transition planning, with an initial focus on logistics in Finland. Zero waste to landfill or non-energy incineration (direct) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Promoting business opportunity to reuse of network equipment in Finland and Estonia. Updated assessment of waste stream processes in offices, with an initial focus in Finland. Zero waste until customer handover (downstream) by 2030 Elisa group The Zero Waste 2030 target was defined, and the Environmental Policy of Elisa was updated accordingly in 2024, providing a foundation for coming work. Development of carbon impact calculation for refurbished and repaired devices in Finland. Improvement and development of device circularity to align with EU taxonomy requirements in Finland. Raising awareness through social media campaign among consumer regarding device circularity and reuse. 75 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Elisa is one of Finland’s largest mobile device retailers, which is why the resources used for manufacturing of devices is material for us. In our role as a service provider, we can have a positive impact on electronic waste and the environment by offering solutions that extend the lifespan and data-secure recycling of devices. The company follows statutory regulations and instructions, also when building its networks. In building and maintaining our network, we have a process for reusing equipment; if doing so is not practically feasible for technical reasons nor financially viable due to, for example, poor energy efficiency, the material of hardware is recycled. In our office premises, recycling and waste management is organised by local partner. Waste-related data is collected through Elisa’s sustainability reporting and monitoring system and is based on data from partners or their own estimates. Performance against the target is monitored in CRMB as well as in relevant Elisa operations. Elisa is committed to supporting solutions designed for circularity through eco-design and extending product lifetimes. This includes reusing, repairing and refurbishing products to enhance their durability, reparability and recyclability, all of which are key components of the transition towards a more circular economy. We are reducing our reliance on new raw material inputs, and our aim is to prioritise sourcing circular alternatives and increasing materials recovery within our own operations. Our commitment extends to seeking the sustainable sourcing of materials, prioritising circular alternatives in our supply chain and safeguarding the health and safety of the workforce. These efforts are in line with the cascading principle of renewable resource use, which emphasises responsible and efficient utilisation of resources. Elisa engages consumers in circular thinking, for example by increasing awareness and promoting device recycling through incentives for customers. We also continue to expand our sustainable and circular offerings, for example through device-as-a-service business models. Resource inflows Manufactured electronic devices, network technologies and batteries make up the majority of inflowing materials. We utilise these technologies to operate our networks and to provide services and products to our customers and end users. These devices and technologies utilise metals and minerals, including some critical and rare materials. Many of these materials have few or no available substitutes and cannot be replaced. Additionally, the inflow also includes batteries, which can include some precious metals. Resource inflows in 2024 Total weight of resource inflow products including packaging (kg) 79,199,692 Percentage of biological materials including packaging (%) 0.4 The absolute weight of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials including packaging (kg) 0 Percentage of secondary reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary products and secondary materials (%) 0 Accounting principles – Resource inflows The data includes Elisa Corporation (Finland) and Elisa Eesti As as the resource inflow is most relevant to these businesses. The total weight of products includes all of the manufactured materials, electronic devices and network technologies procured during 2024. The weight data is collected from Elisa’s procurement system, where the supplier provided data is used when available. In case such data is not available, we have used researched estimations. The biological material used or acquired is insignificant, thus we estimate it to be close to zero. Weight and share of secondary reused or recycled materials are estimated to be negligible and thus zero, as we do not have adequate and accurate data to do any justified calculations. To ensure accuracy, we have diligently avoided double counting by using the data from Elisa’s procurement system only once and have used third party assurance of data and calculations. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"Resource outflows – Waste Elisa does not manufacture or produce any of the products it offers in the market. Elisa operates as a retailer, supplying products to customers. In this capacity, the resource inflows and outflows – including the products and their packaging volumes – are nearly equivalent. Concerning our network operations, facilities, office premises and businesses, our resource outflows result mainly from electronic waste, which typically includes network equipment, other electronics and batteries (both rechargeable and non-rechargeable) and in addition packaging. The amount of office waste is minimal in Elisa’s waste volume, and we adhere to the waste management principles of reducing, reusing and recycling, in collaboration with local waste management partners. Elisa operates under the Extended Producer Responsibility principles by recycling electronic devices, batteries and accu­ mulators, as well as packaging material. Replaced network equipment is either reused in our own operations, sold to the second-hand market or recycled through our third-party partner. The pieces of equipment that are handed over to a third-party partner for further refurbishment and sales are first collected and examined by Elisa to assess whether they are commercially viable, before being packaged for transporta­ tion. Our shops in Finland and Estonia have WEEE collection receptacles for consumer electronic consumables, through which e.g. devices are taken for re-processing to become materials for new electronic products. Our shops in Finland have specific collection boxes for recycling mobile devices and other portable devices. We offer monetary compensation for phones eligible for reuse, for example, when purchasing a new device. Collected devices are repaired, refurbished and reintroduced to the market for consumers, contributing to the circular economy. Additionally, Elisa also complies with local laws as part of producer responsibility, for example in Finland regarding the recycling of packing waste Total waste generated in 2024 Total amount of waste (kg) 838,763 Non-recycled waste (kg) 219,803 Non-recycled waste (%) 26 Total amount of hazardous waste (kg) 356,435 Total waste diverted from disposal (kg) 675,699 Hazardous waste (kg) 356,415 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 356,415 Other recovery operations (kg) N/A Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 319,284 Preparation for reuse (kg) N/A Recycling (kg) 262,545 Other recovery operations (kg) 56,739 Total waste directed to disposal (kg) 163,065 Hazardous waste (kg) 20 Incineration (kg) N/A Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) 20 Non-hazardous Waste (kg) 163,045 Incineration (kg) 163,045 Landfill (kg) N/A Other disposal operations (kg) N/A Accounting principles – Resource outflows – Waste The data includes all Elisa group companies as reported in Elisa’s financial statements. Elisa’s waste volumes consist of materials generated directly across various facilities (such as offices, shops and network infrastructure sites) and are predominantly linked to our business operations. Most of the waste is comprised of battery waste and WEEE (encompassing technology equipment and consumer electronic products), as well as metal and packaging waste. In addition, office waste forms a minor portion of our total waste volume and typically includes materials such as paper, cardboard and biowaste. The composition of these waste streams includes several types of materials, notably minerals, metals and critical materials from technology equipment and batteries, plastics from packaging materials and biomass from office biowaste. Waste data is systematically gathered through reports from our waste management partners or building management, ensuring accuracy. In cases where actual data is unavailable, particularly in certain office locations, estimates based on office headcount are used, as this directly correlates with waste generation. However, the estimated data amounts to less than 3 percent of Elisa’s total waste volume. 77 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Social Governance Assurance Annexes Environment"
"ESRS S1 Own workers Policies Elisa acknowledges the universal and absolute nature of fundamental human rights that protect the freedom, dignity and equality of all people. Elisa is committed to respecting human rights in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises throughout our value chain. Elisa is committed to respecting the human rights and labour rights of everyone working for Elisa, either directly as an employee or indirectly as non-employees. Our commitment and statement are established through our Human Rights Policy and Code of Conduct. We always comply with local labour legislation and collective labour agreements in the countries where we operate. The Code of Conduct establishes the framework for our business operations and sets out the ethical standards for Elisa group employees, businesses and partners. More information on the Code of Conduct is described in the section Business Conduct. Elisa’s Human Rights Policy – which was updated in 2024 – sets the foundations for and guides our development of our human rights due diligence process across all our operations and chains of activities as well as the framework for Elisa’s human rights commitment. It was updated according to Elisa’s human rights impact assessment results. Impact assessment was conducted in alignment with the UNGPs, and it takes in consideration internationalisation of Elisa operations and the evolution of human rights due diligence process. The policy applies to Elisa, the entities that it owns or in which it holds a majority interest, and the operations that it manages. Elisa expects its workers, business partners and other parties whose own impacts may be directly linked to Elisa’s operations, products or services to respect and not infringe upon human rights. The Elisa policy on human rights highlights our dedication to ensure a workplace free from harassment, bullying and discrimination, and to treat everyone equally in recruitment, career and learning opportunities, compensation, and in termination of work relation. Elisa does not tolerate any form of human trafficking, forced labour, bonded labour or slavery, or any form of modern slavery, within Elisa or in its chain of activities. In cases where the company identifies potential adverse human rights impacts, it is committed to promptly and effectively providing and enabling remedies. Elisa’s grievance and remediation approach includes addressing any adverse human rights impacts that the company has caused or contributed to that affect individuals, workers or communities. Health and safety Elisa’s occupational health and safety practices are lead through good management and action programmes that are part of our daily work. The development of the working environment is the right and duty of every employee. Employees can participate in and influence the handling of occupational health and safety (OHS) issues in the workplace. Elisa complies the occupational health and safety legislation of each country where it operates. S – Social Occupational healthcare operates in accordance with good occupational healthcare practice. It aims to ensure a healthy and safe working environment and a well-functioning work community, to prevent of work-related illnesses, and to maintain and promote the working ability and functional capacity of Elisa employees. An annual action plan covering all units and localities and has the key objectives of occu­ pational health care. The functionality and effectiveness of occupational healthcare are monitored via e.g. reports on sickness-related absences and occupational healthcare costs, as well as user feedback. Elisa’s human resource functions are responsible for the procurement and development of occupational health care. In addition to that, Elisa has established a working environment committee that addresses OHS issues at the Elisa Corporation level in Finland and coordinates the activities of the OHS organisation and programs. The working environment committee monitors the implementation of occupational health care services and makes development suggestions. Additio­ nally, the committee is responsible for drawing up the OHS action program, determining measures for monitoring the healthiness and safety of workplaces and monitoring accidents and sickness-related absences at the company level. Working environment teams monitor sickness-related absences on a location/region/activity-specific basis. Elisa collects, records, and measures the number of work-related injuries of its subcontractors both in Finland and Estonia. Also, we follow local laws and guidance and cooperate closely with the subcontractors to ensure the safety of performing the job. 95 percent of Elisa’s employees are covered with OHS, and no fatalities have occurred in the last three years. Information about healthcare services is available on Elisa’s intranet pages, and it is also included in employees’ induction. Diversity, equity and inclusion As an employer, Elisa follows principles of non-discrimination and equality in all our operations, and we also require compliance with these principles from all of our partners. We promote equality throughout the entire life cycle of employment. Diverse workforce enriches our perspectives, promotes innovation and supports learning together. At Elisa, equality and equity are steered by several guidelines and principles, the most important of which are Elisa’s values and the Elisa Code of Conduct. Every employee conducts mandatory training in the Elisa Code of Conduct, which introduces Elisa’s non-discrimination principles. The occupational health and safety, human rights and remote working policies strengthen equality and equity, and they are also promoted through our daily management practices. Responsibility for implementing these practices and ensuring adequate resource allocation is assigned to Elisa’s Executive Vice President of human resource function, who oversees the integration of these values into our operations. Elisa develops workplaces and working practices to provide adequate and safe working conditions for all, making reasonable accommodations where necessary. The company also welcomes equal access to family leave. To facilitate employees’, return to work after family leave or other longer absences, we usually agree with employees about sharing information on current issues. Adequate reorientation training is provided for those returning from family leave. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Environment Governance Assurance Annexes Social"
"Elisa is committed to providing a working environment that encourages everyone to learn, grow, share ideas and develop their work. It is important that everyone can be themselves and feel heard as they are. Discrimination, bullying and harassment, including racism and sexual harassment, are not tolerated at Elisa. Elisa strives to treat everybody equally, regardless of any need a person has for special support, their ethnic origin, age, sexual orientation, gender or religious beliefs, or other personally distinguishing characteristics. It is important to recognise that implementing equality and equal treatment requires us to make evaluations based on dimensions other than, for example, just gender. Communicating and enabling dialogue about equality and equity is an important part of promoting them. We share information and facilitate internal dialogue with employees through for example internal newsletters and separate, targeted events about equality. Elisa monitors the effectiveness of its internal communication measures through our employee engagement survey. The means for equity communication are reviewed in Equality and Equity Working Group and Sustainability Communication Group. Each Elisa company has appropriate, compliant and updated equality and equity plans, guidelines and policies available on their intranets. Elisa Corporation (Finland) is a member of the Finnish Business & Society (FIBS) diversity network and the Inklusiiv community in Finland. Elisa Eesti As is also a member of Estonian Human Rights Center diversity network and have signed Estonian Diversity Charter. Training and career development Elisa sees continuous learning as one of the major enablers for its business success. The Enabling Learning process describes how we at Elisa enable daily learning for every employee. It covers our roles and main practices for learning. One of Elisa’s values is we grow and develop fearlessly, which guides elisians to be enthusiastic about learning and continuous improvement. At Elisa, we approach competence development through the 70-20-10 learning model (70 percent learning from the work, 20 percent learning from others, 10 percent formal training), and we systematically develop competencies. Employees agree about how to develop their competences with their line manager in their Learning and Objective Discussions, which ensures that the direction of competence development is aligned with our strategy. Overall, the purpose of the 70-20-10 model is to expand our thinking regarding methods of competence development, as well as to help us recognise the best ways to do our daily work. Elisa wants to foster continuous learning for all. The company takes advantage of various Elisa-supported learning methods (such as job rotation and working experiments), which also make our operations more flexible. The company wants to involve employees when developing their work and teamwork. Elisa constantly develops working community based on, for example, the results of regular employee surveys. Working conditions Elisa complies with applicable legislation and laws regarding working conditions and labour laws in all the countries of operation in addition to relevant Elisa-level practices. Our Human Rights Policy reaffirms our commitment to fair terms and conditions of employment. In Finland, Elisa follows industry-specific collective bargaining agreements. More than 95 percent of Elisa employees are located in Europe (e.g. in Finland, Estonia, Italy, Sweden, Germany), which has strict statutory requirements concerning working conditions in areas such as reasonable working hours, annual leave, parental leave and part-time work. Where national law allows, all employees are free to choose whether they want to be part of a trade union. Where the nature of the work permits, employees can have flexible working hours and flexibility in choosing when they work remotely. Elisa has an established European Works Council (EWC). The goal of the EWC is to improve employees’ access to information, which means the exchange of views and dialogue between management and employees. The dialogue takes place directly and openly. Strong interaction is an essential part of information and consultation, intended to clarify and communicate the needs both of Elisa and its employees. Our approach Elisa is an important employer in our domestic markets, Finland and Estonia, where more than 80 percent of our workforce are located. However, as an increasingly international company, we also employ a growing number of professionals in various locations globally to work in our digital service businesses. In addition to our employees, we employ more than 6,000 indirect workers (non-employees) through external employment agencies. Elisa revisits impacts on workforce through regular assessments, employee feedback and engagement. In that process, it takes especially consideration to vulnerable or marginalised groups. These groups could include workers with different disabilities, age, gender, sexual orientation or work in unique contexts and are undertaking specific activities. Elisa’s workforce consists mainly of employees in technology development, sales and customer support roles, requiring specialised knowledge and skills in the ICT sector. These positions are mainly situated in office or store environments. The work is carried out with laptops and other smart devices. The health impacts of the work are typically related to mental and physical strain. Furthermore, employees working in retail environments, such as shops and open stalls in malls, may face safety impacts due to customer behaviour. Additionally, part of non-employee worker is involved in the construction and maintenance of Elisa’s network infrastructure, requiring activities such as climbing high masts/towers, which present health and safety risks. Health and safety concerns are significant for workers engaged in network construction and maintenance due to the nature of their work. Other non-employee workers, including subcontractors, agency workers and consultants, work under Elisa’s supervision but are employed and compensated by third-party companies. Nonetheless, Elisa recognises its direct and indirect impact on these non-employee workers. All these workforces that can be materially impacted by Elisa’s operations and business activities are included in the scope of disclosure Elisa is committed to enhancing the wellbeing of its workforce through initiatives focused on mental health support and safe working conditions. The company actively pursues opportu­ nities to positively impact its employees and non-employee workers by providing continuous training, development programmes, and a supportive work environment. These initiatives benefit all workers, including those in office and customer-facing roles, by improving job satisfaction and performance. Elisa also seeks opportunities to foster a positive work culture that emphasises diversity, equity and inclusion, which can enhance employee engagement and productivity. In the autumn of 2024, Elisa decided to introduce new hybrid work principles from the beginning of the year 2025, requiring employees to work at minimum three days per week in the office location of Elisa. The new hybrid working model was introduced to proactively mitigate the potential negative impacts of too extensive remote work and to emphasise the 79 ANNUAL REPORT 2024 Sustainability Statement General information Environment Governance Assurance Annexes Social"

--- Brunel-Annual-Report-2024-pdf ---
"BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 38 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 39 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3.2.2.4. 2024 RESULTS A. E1-5: ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND MIX Energy consumption and mix 2024 (1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products (MWh) - (2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products (MWh) 9.379 (3) Fuel consumption from natural gas (MWh) 3.164 (4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources (MWh) (5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources (MWh) 5,837 (6) Total fossil energy consumption (MWh) 18.380 (7) Consumption from nuclear sources (MWh) (8) Fuel consumption for renewable sources, including biomas (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic orgin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc) - (9) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources (MWh) 1.500 (10) The consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy (MWh) (11) Total renewable energy consumption (MWh) (calculated as the sum of lines 8 to 10) 1.500 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption (%) 0% Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (%) 92% Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (%) 8% Total energy consumption (MWh) (calculated at sum of lines 6, and 11) 19.880 Scope 1 Direct GHG Emissions 2023 2024 2030 1.1. Stationary Combustion 541 637 135 1.2. Mobile Combustion 3.981 2.443 199 1.3. Process Emissions x x x 1.4. Fugitive Emissions x x x Subtotal 4.523 3.080 334 Scope 2 Indirect GHG Emissions 2.1. Purchased Electricity 4.184 4.263 1.883 2.2. Purchased Steam x x x 2.3. Purchased Heating 33 33 8 2.4. Purchased Cooling x x x Subtotal 4.216 4.296 1.891 Scope 3 other GHG emissions 3.1. Purchased goods and services x x x 3.2. Capital goods 18 71 18 3.3 Fuel and energy-related Activities x x x 3.4. Upstream transportation and distribution x x x 3.5. Waste generated in operations x x x 3.6. Business travel 23.655 22.847 23.063 3.7. Employee commuting 7.428 7.428 3.714 3.8 Upstream leased assets x x x 3.9. Downstream transportation x x x 3.10. Processing of sold products x x x 3.11. Use of sold products x x x 3.12. End-of-life treatment of sold products x x x 3.13. Downstream leased asset x x x 3.14. Franchises x x x 3.15. investments x x x Subtotal 31.101 30.347 26.795 Total 39.840 37.722 29.021 In 2025 we will explore how we can best select and operationalise the collective decarbonisation levers. Following this analysis, we will determine financial budgets and action plans. We will formalise our approach in 2025 through a formal global environmental policy which we will share for implementation in 2025. As part of our annual review of the transition plan we will evaluate the consistency of our reduction targets with the changes, if any, to our carbon emission inventory."
"REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 41 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS C. E1-7: GHG REMOVALS AND GHG MITIGATION PROJECTS FINANCED THROUGH CARBON CREDITS In 2021, Brunel engaged in buying Carbon Credits for the years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025. These are carbon credits outside Brunel’s value chain. For this full period, Brunel contract 71,909 Certificates from various projects as listed below. Volume of Certificates % share Certificate Standard Type Certificate Type Project Title Location 33.455 47% VCS Reduction Hydropower Musi Hydro Power Plant Indonesia 33.454 47% VCS-SC Reduction Forest conservation Agrocortex Project Brazil 5.000 6% VCS Reduction Cookstoves Wood burning Cookstoves in Sub-Sahara Sub-Sahara 71.909 100% The share (percentage of volume) issued from projects in the EU is zero. These carbon credits are retired as per the schedule below: Year Amount 2022 19,148 tCO2 2023 18,296 tCO2 2024 17,548 tCO2 2025 16,917 tCO2 Carbon Credits are excluded from the definition and execution of our Transition Plan and our climate change mitigation policy. We aim to contribute to the Paris Agreement through investing into the execution of our Transition Plan. We do not currently plan re-acquire additional carbon credits. 3.2.2.5. EU TAXONOMY A. INTRODUCTION The EU Taxonomy establishes an EU-wide classification framework intended to provide businesses and investors with a common language to identify and report on to what degree economic activities can be considered environmentally sustainable through the creation of activity specific sustainability criteria. For the 2024 reporting period, all companies falling under the scope of the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (Directive 2014/95/EU), which has been implemented into Dutch law through the Decree disclosure on nonfinancial information (‘Besluit bekendmaking niet-financiële informatie’), or the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (Directive 2022/2464/EU), as applicable for Brunel, are obligated to report in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation (EU 2020/852). Companies in scope are required to report their portion of eligible and aligned activities in terms of their turnover, capital expenditures (CapEx) and operating expenses (OpEx) against all 6 environmental objectives: • climate change mitigation • climate change adaptation • the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources • the transition to a circular economy • pollution prevention and control • the protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems B. E1-6: GROSS SCOPES 1,2,3 AND TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS Retrospective Milestones and Target Years Base year 2024 2025 2030 Annual % target / Base year Scope 1 GHG Emissions Gross location - based Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 4.523 3.079 3.924 334 13.2% Gross market-based Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 4.523 3.079 3.924 334 13.2% Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes % 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% - Scope 2 GHG Emissions Gross location - based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 3.738 2.830 3.443 1.676 7.9% Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 4.296 4.296 3.884 1.891 8.0% Significant scope 3 GHG emissions Total Gross location - based indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 31.803 30.275 30.468 26.777 2.0% 3.2 Capital good - - - - - 3.6 Business traveling 23.655 22.847 23.570 23.063 0.4% 3.7 Employee commuting 7.428 7.428 6.898 3.714 7.1% Total Gross market - based indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 31.101 30.347 30.486 26.795 2.0% 3.2 Capital good 18 71 18 18 0.0% 3.6 Business traveling 23.655 22.847 23.570 23.063 0.4% 3.7 Employee commuting 7.428 7.428 6.898 3.714 7.1% Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) (tCO2eq) 39.343 36.185 37.835 28.787 3.8% Total GHG emissions (market-based) (tCO2eq) 39.920 37.722 38.294 29.021 3.9% GHG intensity per net revenue 2024 Total GHG emissions (location-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/Monetary unit) 26.51 Total GHG emissions (market-based) per net revenue (tCO2eq/Monetary unit) 27.64 The difference in location based and market based electricity emissions is due to the conversion factors used for market based. In the market based conversion factors, all renewable energy content is eliminated resulting into a more accurate but higher conversion factor. HIGHLIGHTS 2024 Brunel & University of Amsterdam: Advancing Workforce Insights COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH PROJECT WITH THE PEOPLE ANALYTICS CENTRE ON EMPLOYEE RETENTION IN MULTI-PARTY PARTNERSHIPS , LED BY BRUNEL MARKET & BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE FUNCTION COMBINES BRUNEL’S RICH DATASET WITH ACADEMIC EXPERTISE TO ADDRESS RETENTION CHALLENGES VALUE FOR CLIENTS: • Provides unique, actionable insights to improve workforce stability and satisfaction • Bridges theory and practice to tackle complex workforce dynamics"
"BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 42 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 43 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CapEx The applied denominator is equal to all additions to tangible and intangible assets considered before depreciation, amortisation and any re-measurements, including those resulting from revaluations and impairments, for the relevant financial year and excluding fair value changes. The denominator also covered additions to tangible and intangible assets resulting from business combinations. The numerator is determined by including the portion of CapEx associated with eligible or aligned activities. Therefore the numerator was calculated using the costs associated with activity 7.2 Renovation of existing buildings. OpEx The applied denominator is equal to all direct non- capitalised costs that relate to research and development, building renovation measures, short- term lease, maintenance and repair, and any other direct expenditures relating to the day-to-day servicing of assets of property, plant and equipment by the undertaking or third party to whom activities are outsourced that are necessary to ensure the continued and effective functioning of such assets. The numerator is determined by including the portion of OpEx associated with eligible or aligned activities. Therefore the numerator was calculated using the costs associated with activities, 6.4 - Operation of personal mobility devices, cycle logistics under climate change mitigation and, 6.5 - Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles under climate change mitigation. F. ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION (EU)2020/852 Brunel has adhered to the highest standards of integrity and has accurately followed the defined scope and definitions as outlined by the most recent available information provided by the European Commission or associated working groups such as the Platform of Sustainable Finance (Technical Expert Group (TEG)). We have not included any eligible activities or associated information that was deemed out of the scope of these definitions. In instances where the inclusion of information was uncertain, a decision was taken to exclude this information to allow for further analysis. In this regard, we commit to correcting or omitting any inaccuracies in the subsequent reporting year based on new insights or clarifications provided by the European Commission. The EU Taxonomy is a dynamic piece of legislation, expected to undergo further updates in the coming years. These updates may include additional economic activities, technical screening criteria, and/or environmental or social objectives. We will continue to review all new communications or publications issued by the European Commission or associated working groups related to the EU Taxonomy at such times, to determine any potential reporting implications and to ensure accuracy and transparency going forward. B. ELIGIBILITY AND ALIGNMENT ANALYSIS Following our 2023 EU Taxonomy assessment, a revised eligibility analysis was conducted on our revenue generating activities, which falls under Human Resourcing services, referenced under NACE Code N78 (Employment activities) for reporting period 2024 against all six environmental objectives. Furthermore, the EU Taxonomy Navigator, made available by the European Commission, was screened and reviewed to determine potential eligibility. It has therefore been determined that Brunel currently does not engage in any turnover generating activities that fall within the scope of the EU Taxonomy. We understand that the EU Taxonomy and the Climate Delegated Act as well as the Environmental Delegated Act including its Annexes requires non-financial undertakings with non-Taxonomy eligible economic activities to report on the part of the CapEx and OpEx related to the purchase of output from Taxonomy- aligned economic activities and individual measures enabling target activities to become low-carbon or to lead to greenhouse gas reductions. In this regard we reviewed so-called cross-cutting activities that are not directly related to our primary business activities and are not revenue-generating but still are of relevance and in scope of CapEx and OpEx calculation methodology as per the EU taxonomy regulations. Through the assessment, the following activities were assessed to be eligible: Activity EU Taxonomy Activity Associated EU taxonomy objective Lease Cars 6.5 - Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles under climate change mitigation Climate change mitigation Employee bicycle schemes 6.4. Operation of personal mobility devices, cycle logistics under climate change mitigation Climate change mitigation Renovation of building 7.2. - Renovation of existing building Climate change mitigation C. ALIGNMENT ANALYSIS Although the activities mentioned above have been identified as eligible, further analysis was performed using the technical screening criteria to assess their alignment with the EU Taxonomy. It was determined that we do not have the necessary or sufficient data to evaluate alignment with the respective technical screening criteria for our eligible activities. D. QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES Subsequent to the above eligibility analysis, the proportion of our current turnover that can be considered as eligible and/or aligned is 0%. Through assessment of potential CapEx and OpEx associated costs under the EU Taxonomy, we concluded that we have 10% eligible CapEx, 8.9% eligible OpEx and 0% aligned CapEx and OpEx costs. (2023: CAPEX 18%, OpEx 0.02%, Turnover 0%). For presenting our Taxonomy KPIs for Turnover, CapEx and OpEx we use the templates provided in Annex II to the Disclosures Delegated Act. E. QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES Turnover The applied denominator, defined as per Article 2, point (5), of Directive 2013/34/EU, is defined as total revenue as disclosed in the consolidated financial statements. The numerator (proportion of eligible and aligned turnover ) is determined as the part of the net turnover derived from products or services, including intangibles, associated with Taxonomy-eligible economic activities. Listed on the Stock Exchange 1997 BRUNEL MILESTONES"
"BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 44 BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 45 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS KPIS ON NON-FINANCIAL UNDERTAKING TAXONOMY REPORTING TURNOVER Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities (1) Millions, EUR % Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy- aligned) (A.1) 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% Of which enabling 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% E Of which transitional 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% T A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% Total (A.1+A.2) 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (in Million EUR) 1,365 100% Total (A+B) (in Million EUR) 1,365 100% Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities (1) THOUSANDS, EUR % Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy- aligned) (A.1) 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% - - Of which enabling 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% E Of which transitional 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% T A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned) 7.2 Renovation of existing building CCM 7.2 965 10% N N-EL N-EL N-EL N-EL N-EL - - - - - - - 18% CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 965 10% 18% Total (A.1+A.2) 965 10% 18% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (in Thousand EUR) 8,727 90% Total (A+B) (in Thousand EUR) 9,693 100% “In an ever-evolving digital landscape, Brunel’s commitment to leveraging leading-edge technologies – including advanced AI and cloud solutions – allows us to drive efficiency, enhance client service quality and prepare for tomorrow’s workforce demands. Our digital and innovation strategy is transforming how we connect talent with pioneering projects, enabling faster, more robust solutions across our core industries.” MARK RATJEN Global Innovation Lead DIGITAL & INNOVATION CAPEX"
"BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 46 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL N.V. ANNUAL REPORT 2024 47 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Proportion of turnover/ total turnover Proportion of Capex/ total Capex Proportion of Opex/ total Opex Environmental Objective Taxonomy- Aligned Turnover (%) Taxonomy- Eligible Turnover (%) Taxonomy- Aligned Capex (%) Taxonomy- Eligible Capex (%) Taxonomy-Aligned Opex (%) Taxonomy-Eligible Opex (%) Climate change mitigation 0% 0% 0% 10% 0% 8,9% Climate change adaptation 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Protection and restoration of water and marine sources 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Transition to circular economy 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Pollution prevention and control 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Protection and restoration of biodiversity 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Nuclear energy related activities 1. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle. NO 2. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. NO 3. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades. NO Fossil gas related activities 4. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 5. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. NO 6. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels. NO ACTIVITIES RELATED TO NUCLEAR ENERGY AND FOSSIL GAS ELIGIBILITY AND ALIGNMENT PER ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVE Substantial Contribution Criteria DNSH criteria (‘Does Not Significantly Harm’) Economic Activities (1) “THOUSANDS, EUR” % Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N/ N-EL Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES 8,9% A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy- aligned) (A.1) 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% 0% 0% Of which enabling 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% E Of which transitional 0,00 0% - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0% T A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) 6.4. Operation of personal mobility devices, cycle logistic CCM 6.4 119 0.3% N N-EL N-EL N-EL N-EL N-EL - - - - - - - 0% 6.5. Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles CCM 6.5 3,124 8.6% N N-EL N-EL N-EL N-EL N-EL - - - - - - - 0% OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 3,242 8.9% 0% Total (A.1+A.2) 3,242 8.9% 0% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (in Thousand EUR) 33,160 91.1% Total (A+B) (in Thousand EUR) 36,403 100% ELIGIBILITY AND ALIGNMENT PER ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVE OPEX Y Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective N No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective N/EL Not eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective"

--- Commerzbank_Group_Annual_Report_2024 ---
"92 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 amounts of numerator and denominator therefore differ signifi- cantly from one another. The exposure that is relevant for the numerator is generally exposure towards companies that are required to submit a non- financial report (NFR) in accordance with the Accounting Di- rective. In order to identify these companies, we used data from an external data provider on companies required to publish a non-financial report, which we combined with our customer in- formation. Certain exposure towards households and towards lo- cal and regional authorities is also taken into account. In the case of special financing for special purpose vehicles (SPVs) that are not regularly required to submit a non-financial report, we ap- plied a “look-through” approach. Here, we consider the use of proceeds to be most important and are including this accordingly in the reporting. Two procedures are used to screen our assets for Taxonomy eligibility or Taxonomy alignment. A distinction is made based on whether the use of the proceeds by the borrower/issuer is un- known (general-purpose loans and securities) or known (loans with use of proceeds). General-purpose loans and securities are weighted using the turnover-based and CapEx-based KPIs of the borrower/issuer and are thus included in the calculation of the GAR in the two calculation variants. The calculation of the GAR and AuM KPIs includes equities with the issuer’s turnover-based or CapEx-based KPIs as well as certain funds (according to Article 8 and Article 9 of the Disclo- sure Regulation) with the product-specific KPI. We do not carry out a “look-through” approach for other funds. For bonds where the proceeds were allocated to a specific sustainable purpose, the issuers have not yet provided product-specific KPIs whose calcu- lation methodology meets the Taxonomy requirements. Until the newly enacted EU Green Bond Standard is applicable and prod- uct-specific Taxonomy KPIs are available, all bonds will be as- sessed using the issuer’s turnover-based and CapEx-based KPIs. The counterparty KPIs are obtained from an external data pro- vider. The information provided refers to the companies’ disclo- sures for the 2023 reporting year. If no information was available, we assessed these positions as Taxonomy-non-eligible or Taxon- omy-non-aligned. Exposure towards subsidiaries required to publish a non-financial report with parent companies also re- quired to publish a non-financial report are assessed based on the parent company’s disclosed KPIs. For the 2024 reporting year, subsidiaries that are not subject to reporting were included for the first time. If there are no sep- arate KPIs for the subsidiaries, the KPIs of the parent company are also used, significantly increasing the volume of assets ana- lysed compared with the previous year. This expanded scope was based on FAQ 13 issued by the EU Commission, which was pub- lished in the Official Journal in November 2024.The expansion to include the customer group of local/regional authorities on the basis of FAQ 47 also increased the assessment population. The total covered assets therefore increased compared to the previ- ous year (see Template 0; % of total assets covered in the 2024 financial year at 41.31%, in the previous year 2023 still at 32.98%). When screening loans where a use of proceeds is know, the review is based on the information provided by the borrower about the activities for which the proceeds are used. If the use of funds (financed economic activity) is described in the Taxonomy Regulation, we assess these loans as Taxonomy-eligible. In order to determine whether an exposure can be classified as Taxonomy-aligned, we examine the comprehensive technical screening criteria, which differ depending on the economic ac- tivity. A check is also carried out to determine that none of the other objectives are significantly impaired and that the criteria for social minimum safeguards are met. We have established appropriate procedures to assess Taxon- omy eligibility and Taxonomy alignment. We rolled out further software solutions in 2024 that allow us to implement (partially) automated processes when screening for Taxonomy alignment, making the process more streamlined and efficient. We generally assess Taxonomy alignment for Taxonomy-eli- gible exposure that is essential to our business activities and, where necessary, introduce new processes to collect relevant in- formation about our customers. In cases where we did not have access to the required infor- mation and evidence (for checking the technical screening crite- ria) and this could not be ascertained with reasonable effort, we classified these items as Taxonomy-non-aligned. The KPIs were calculated using the Bank’s central data ware- house, which also forms the basis for the financial reporting (FINREP). The mBank data was collected locally and then inte- grated into the Group-wide figures. The calculation was based on gross carrying amounts. The green asset ratio in the reporting period is as follows:"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 93 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report 0. Summary of KPIs to be disclosed by credit institutions under Article 8 Taxonomy Regulation Total environmentally sustainable assets1 KPI (Turnover)2 KPI (CapEx)2 % coverage (over total assets)3 % of assets excluded from the numerator of the GAR (Article 7 (2) and (3) and Section 1.1.2 of Annex V) % of assets excluded from the denominator of the GAR (Article 7 (1) and Section 1.2.4 of Annex V) Main KPI Green asset ratio (GAR stock) 2.93 3.33 3.59 41.31 32.17 26.52 Additional KPIs GAR (Flow) 0.80 0.90 1.05 9.27 8.41 18.51 Trading book4 - - - - X X Financial guarantees 0.00 1.34 1.61 X X X Assets under management 9.02 9.85 10.55 X X X Fees and commissions income5 - - - - X X 1 Based on own assumptions: Percentage of assets for which the use of proceeds by the borrower/ issuer is known (over total GAR assets). 2 Based on the Turnover KPI and CapEx KPI of the counterparty. 3 Percentage of assets covered by the KPI over banks total assets. 4 For credit institutions that do not meet the conditions of Article 94(1) of the CRR or the conditions set out in Article 325a (1) of the CRR. 5 Fees and commissions income from services other than lending and AuM. Institutions shall disclose forward-looking information for these KPIs, including information in terms of targets, together with relevant explanations on the methodology applied. Our Taxonomy-aligned volume and thus the green asset ratio (GAR stock) is characterised by retail mortgage financing and spe- cial financing for SPVs in the field of renewable energies. The Tax- onomy alignment check for the 2024 reporting year was extended to financing outside the European Economic Area. The share of to- tal environmentally sustainable assets (for which the use of pro- ceeds is known) increases to 2.93% (see Template 0; previous year: 2.28 %). The total GAR stock increases by 42% to 3.33% (turno- ver KPI; previous year: 2.34%) and 48% to 3.59% (CapEx KPI; previous year: 2.43%). Although the taxonomy-aligned business increases significantly overall, the effect is mitigated by a similar increase in the size of the denominator (total GAR assets). The current reporting of Taxonomy-aligned assets refers to en- vironmental objectives 1 (climate change mitigation) and 2 (cli- mate change adaptation), as it did for the 2023 reporting year. Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486 of 27 June 2023 supple- mented the EU Taxonomy with technical screening criteria for four additional environmental objectives. With respect to the four addi- tional environmental objectives, financial institutions will initially only have to provide information regarding Taxonomy eligibility for the 2023 and 2024 reporting years. The full reporting requirements for Taxonomy alignment will apply starting from the 2025 report- ing year. Accordingly, the columns in the templates for data on Tax- onomy alignment for the environmental objectives – three to six have been left empty. Taxonomy-eligible activities must be assigned to one – specifi- cally– the most relevant – environmental objective. Double count- ing is not permitted. The Taxonomy eligibility of loans with a 7 FAQ 29 issued by the EU Commission in November 2024 requires banks to add an- other nine nuclear and gas templates to all KPIs. For the 2024 reporting year, this would correspond to 27 nearly empty templates. purpose known use of proceeds was screened for all six environ- mental objectives. The loans are consequently assigned to the first environmental objective. There is no remaining amount that is al- located to other environmental objectives. For general-purpose loans and securities, the company KPIs were used. For the 2024 financial year, the availability of KPIs improved significantly; more- over, KPIs could be used for the first time for Taxonomy alignment of financial institutions. The extension of the EU Taxonomy to include nuclear and gas entered into force on 1 January 2023, so the corresponding data for companies – and, for the first time, also for financial institutions – will be included in this report for the first time (for general-pur- pose loans and securities). The financed economic activities in the nuclear and gas sector are part of the GAR (stock). In addition, we are required to report the shares in the GAR (stock) in separate templates in the Notes. We have not provided any further templates for the additional KPIs for reasons of non-materiality and readabil- ity.7 We have not identified any loans with a purpose in the nuclear and gas sector. Commerzbank’s own understanding of sustainability in these activities is described in greater detail in the ESG framework. We have a principle of not financing any new nuclear power plants. The same is true for uranium mines. We have strict requirements for assets involving fossil fuels and generally take a critical view of such exposure. At the same time, we see the need for gas as a tran- sition technology over the coming years to ensure continued sta- bility of supply. We therefore critically scrutinise financing for the construction of gas-fired power plants on a case-by-case basis."
"94 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 [E1-1] Transition plan for climate change mitigation Commerzbank aims to actively shape the transformation towards a sustainable economy. To achieve this, we have established a comprehensive sustainability strategy, with the core objective of becoming a Net-Zero Bank. Further information on key compo- nents of this sustainability strategy can be found in ESRS E1-2 and E1-4. So far, Commerzbank has not published an explicit transition plan for climate change mitigation, as required under ESRS E1-1. We are currently developing such a climate transition plan, in which we will disclose further information about our transfor- mation path. Approval by the Bank’s Board of Managing Direc- tors and subsequent publication of the climate transition plan are earmarked for 2025. [E1-2] Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Banking operations Commerzbank AG has set itself the goal of reducing emissions from its own operations to net zero by 2040. This applies to all locations in Germany and abroad. Unavoidable CO2eq emissions are offset by certificates from CO2eq reduction projects. Renew- able energies play a central role in our energy supply. Further- more, we aim to achieve a climate-neutral supplier portfolio by 2040. Our strategies incorporate climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and other environmental criteria in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. In implementing our goals, we are committed to complying with relevant standards and initiatives enacted by third parties, including in particular the Paris Agreement, the Science-based Targets initiative (SBTi) and the UN Global Compact. In addition, we are a member of the Association for Environmental Manage- ment and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (Verein für Um- weltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e. V. (VfU)). With these strategies and policies, Commerzbank is respond- ing to the material impacts of its business activities. By publicly communicating our climate change mitigation targets, we can set a benchmark and have a positive influence on competitors. These overarching objectives, strategies and standards apply to all sustainability policies in relation to banking operations and are publicly available on our website. ESG framework Our ambitious sustainability targets are published and described in our ESG framework. The core components of the framework that are central to banking operations include sustainable opera- tions and stakeholder management. Responsibility for the ESG framework lies with Group Sustain- ability Management, while Group Organisation & Security over- sees implementation of sustainable operations. The ESG framework applies to Commerzbank AG as well as to selected subsidiaries. Commerzbank emphasises great importance to communica- tion with all stakeholders, encompassing our customers, inves- tors, rating agencies, analysts, non-governmental organisations, policymakers and the general public. We keep in contact with our major stakeholders through personal dialogue, discussion events, strategic partnerships and various public communication chan- nels. Progress is monitored by means of an annual process for col- lecting, analysing and reporting relevant operational-environ- mental sustainability indicators. Commerzbank environmental guidelines Our comprehensive environmental guidelines outline the princi- ples of environmentally friendly business activities. These guide- lines are based on international standards and take into account all relevant aspects along our entire value chain, including the core elements of corporate responsibility, climate change mitiga- tion and climate change adaptation, resource-conserving energy use, prevention of environmental damage, promotion of biodiver- sity, transition to a circular economy, climate-neutral supplier portfolio, mobility of our employees and ongoing improvements to our environmental performance. The environmental guidelines adopted by the Board of Managing Directors serve as operating procedures for all employees of the Commerzbank Group. The Group Organisation & Security division is responsible for imple- mentation. Our environmental and energy management system"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 95 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report is certified according to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 for Com- merzbank AG and selected subsidiaries. This underlines our commitment to continuously improve our environmental perfor- mance and energy efficiency. Regular reports to the Board of Di- rectors ensure the effectiveness of our management systems. Standard for sustainable procurement With its standard for sustainable procurement, Commerzbank has laid down binding guidelines governing sustainability mat- ters when purchasing goods and services. The environmental, so- cial and governance criteria specified in the standard reflect Commerzbank’s corporate responsibility demands of its service providers and suppliers. Therefore, Commerzbank also actively influences the sustainable orientation of suppliers and service providers through purchasing decisions. The regulations defined by Corporate Procurement are binding for all units of Commerzbank AG both in Germany and abroad. The target group includes all process participants involved in procurement. The standard serves as a framework for subsidiar- ies in Germany and abroad when making internal decisions based on company-specific requirements. The standard for sustainable procurement promotes sustain- able development in the procurement process. The defined crite- ria and rules of conduct are intended to make the consideration of sustainability aspects practicable for all process partici- pants. In addition, the standard aims to raise awareness among Commerzbank employees on the topic of sustainability. Within the context of the internal control system, controls have been defined for evaluating suppliers prior to entering into new contractual relationships as well as for managing existing suppli- ers. These also include ESG criteria as a part of an overall scoring model. When selecting suppliers, Commerzbank’s Reputational Risk Management analyses the suppliers on a case-by-case basis. The commissioning organisational units and Corporate Procure- ment evaluate service providers to ensure compliance with the requirements outlined in the standard. We notify suppliers of any necessary improvements in terms of sustainability performance and document the results of the assessments. Banking business Commerzbank AG’s climate change mitigation targets in the cus- tomer business and the steps required to achieve these objectives are explicitly governed by the ESG framework and the associated internal “ESG Framework Policy”. In this policy and the underly- ing procedures, Commerzbank AG sets out the building blocks of its sustainability strategy and describes how the three sustaina- bility KPIs are managed:  Net zero carbon emissions in the loan and investment portfo- lio by 2050  Mobilising €300bn in sustainable products by 2025  Net zero carbon emissions in banking operations by 2040 One concrete goal is therefore to create transparency in our sustainability activities, including a clear definition of what ESG means in our customer business. The framework also presents our sustainable product solutions and consolidates the sustaina- bility guidelines and exclusion criteria. Commerzbank published a revised framework in February 2025, which has been updated to include an expanded and optimised set of sustainability targets and has undergone a fundamental redesign in terms of structure. Climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation are addressed in the ESG framework and in the corresponding policy, primarily through the net zero target, SBTi management, binding exclusion criteria and minimum standards, consideration of cli- mate matters in risk management, as well as by financing sus- tainable projects and offering sustainable products. The topic of renewable energies is addressed through financing for projects in this area, for example through the Centre of Competence Green Infrastructure Finance. The main objective of the framework and internal policy is to create a Bank-wide standard that enables stringent management of the relevant products, processes and activities, paving the way for the sustainable transformation of Commerzbank AG. The ESG framework therefore describes both Commerzbank’s impacts on the environment (“Save the World” perspective) and the environ- ment’s impacts on Commerzbank AG (“Save the Bank” perspec- tive), encompassing both the risk and impact perspectives of the associated business activities. Significant opportunities arise in the sustainability context from sustainable product solutions (fi- nancing and investments), which are covered by the €300bn tar- get. Commerzbank AG’s sustainability efforts as described in the framework are operationalised and monitored using the three sustainability KPIs. The Group Sustainability Board, a Bank-wide committee focusing on sustainability issues that is attended by members of the Board of Managing Directors, is responsible for the ESG framework. The head of Group Strategy, Transformation & Sustainability division and the steering committee of the stra- tegic initiative “Sustainability 360°” are responsible for the inter- nal policy."
"96 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 The process of developing the ESG framework actively incor- porated the interests of relevant internal and external stakehold- ers (e.g. political bodies, non-governmental organisations, customers and investors) and directly involved internal stake- holders. With regard to the internal policy, all relevant depart- ments were likewise consulted during the drafting process. The ESG framework is available on our website. The internal policy, as part of the written rules of procedure, is available in- ternally to all Commerzbank employees. Various other guidelines and procedures within the Bank, including those from other de- partments, are linked or sub-assigned to the policy. Managing financed emissions via the SBTi Commerzbank has implemented a wide range of internal guide- lines and procedures to manage the requirements under the SBTi. These steering guidelines, which also clarify the roles and re- sponsibilities for SBTi management, outline the minimum stand- ards adopted by Commerzbank for SBTi management both at the level of the overall portfolio and for the individual business seg- ments. The most important guidelines include the following:  The Net Zero (SBTi) Steering Guideline defines roles and re- sponsibilities for net zero and SBTi management and sets minimum standards for managing portfolios and individual business areas.  The Net Zero (SBTi) Portfolio Calculation & Target Setting Procedure defines the SBTi target curves for the portfolios, the relevant sectors and the underlying parameters.  Various other steering guidelines and procedural instructions specify the segment-specific steering requirements for the corporate client business, the private customer business and Treasury. These include control measures, reporting obliga- tions, and roles and responsibilities. The target group of these guidelines, which were approved by the relevant competent authorities, are the responsible divisions within Commerzbank AG. The overarching Net Zero (SBTi) Steer- ing Guideline was also initially approved by the Group-wide sus- tainability project at Board level, following alignment with the relevant stakeholders. The internal guidelines form part of the written framework and are available internally to all employees of Commerzbank AG. The key principles of portfolio management under the SBTi are also communicated externally as part of the ESG framework. The process of developing the SBTi target pathways is subject to regular monitoring and quarterly updates to senior manage- ment, including the Board of Managing Directors of Com- merzbank, by means an internal report detailing the progress made on achieving the SBTi targets. A traffic light system was developed in 2024 to evaluate deviations in actual development from the target curves and devise appropriate countermeasures where necessary, depending on the extent of deviation from the target pathway. In addition, the SBTi Net Zero Dashboard, de- signed as a controlling instrument, has been continuously ex- panded to improve performance and deliver more meaningful results. Finally, the data basis has been optimised, new real data has been integrated and work has begun on preparing implemen- tation of the new SBTi standard for financial institutions. Our risk management addresses both the physical and transi- tion risks identified in the annual materiality assessment for cli- mate-related risks, while SBTi management addresses the identified impacts. More details on this analysis can be found in ESRS E1 SBM-3. [E1-3] Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies Climate change mitigation measures in banking operations We are conscious of our responsibility as a company and are ac- tively committed to the transformation towards an environmentally sustainable society. Through innovative technologies, energy effi- ciency measures, and the transition to renewable energy sources, we are consistently working on reducing our environmental foot- print. We have established an integrated environmental and energy management system (integriertes Umwelt- und Energiemanage- mentsystem (iUEMS)) in accordance with our environmental guidelines. Since 2009 Commerzbank AG and selected subsidiar- ies have had an environmental management system certified ac- cording to ISO 14001 and since 2015 an energy management system certified according to ISO 50001. This ensures that respon- sibilities, behaviors, processes and guidelines for implementing the corporate environmental and energy policy are systematically defined and documented. The focus is on optimising resource con- sumption, particularly in areas where we can have a direct impact on the environment, such as in building management and business travel."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 93 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report 0. Summary of KPIs to be disclosed by credit institutions under Article 8 Taxonomy Regulation Total environmentally sustainable assets1 KPI (Turnover)2 KPI (CapEx)2 % coverage (over total assets)3 % of assets excluded from the numerator of the GAR (Article 7 (2) and (3) and Section 1.1.2 of Annex V) % of assets excluded from the denominator of the GAR (Article 7 (1) and Section 1.2.4 of Annex V) Main KPI Green asset ratio (GAR stock) 2.93 3.33 3.59 41.31 32.17 26.52 Additional KPIs GAR (Flow) 0.80 0.90 1.05 9.27 8.41 18.51 Trading book4 - - - - X X Financial guarantees 0.00 1.34 1.61 X X X Assets under management 9.02 9.85 10.55 X X X Fees and commissions income5 - - - - X X 1 Based on own assumptions: Percentage of assets for which the use of proceeds by the borrower/ issuer is known (over total GAR assets). 2 Based on the Turnover KPI and CapEx KPI of the counterparty. 3 Percentage of assets covered by the KPI over banks total assets. 4 For credit institutions that do not meet the conditions of Article 94(1) of the CRR or the conditions set out in Article 325a (1) of the CRR. 5 Fees and commissions income from services other than lending and AuM. Institutions shall disclose forward-looking information for these KPIs, including information in terms of targets, together with relevant explanations on the methodology applied. Our Taxonomy-aligned volume and thus the green asset ratio (GAR stock) is characterised by retail mortgage financing and spe- cial financing for SPVs in the field of renewable energies. The Tax- onomy alignment check for the 2024 reporting year was extended to financing outside the European Economic Area. The share of to- tal environmentally sustainable assets (for which the use of pro- ceeds is known) increases to 2.93% (see Template 0; previous year: 2.28 %). The total GAR stock increases by 42% to 3.33% (turno- ver KPI; previous year: 2.34%) and 48% to 3.59% (CapEx KPI; previous year: 2.43%). Although the taxonomy-aligned business increases significantly overall, the effect is mitigated by a similar increase in the size of the denominator (total GAR assets). The current reporting of Taxonomy-aligned assets refers to en- vironmental objectives 1 (climate change mitigation) and 2 (cli- mate change adaptation), as it did for the 2023 reporting year. Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486 of 27 June 2023 supple- mented the EU Taxonomy with technical screening criteria for four additional environmental objectives. With respect to the four addi- tional environmental objectives, financial institutions will initially only have to provide information regarding Taxonomy eligibility for the 2023 and 2024 reporting years. The full reporting requirements for Taxonomy alignment will apply starting from the 2025 report- ing year. Accordingly, the columns in the templates for data on Tax- onomy alignment for the environmental objectives – three to six have been left empty. Taxonomy-eligible activities must be assigned to one – specifi- cally– the most relevant – environmental objective. Double count- ing is not permitted. The Taxonomy eligibility of loans with a 7 FAQ 29 issued by the EU Commission in November 2024 requires banks to add an- other nine nuclear and gas templates to all KPIs. For the 2024 reporting year, this would correspond to 27 nearly empty templates. purpose known use of proceeds was screened for all six environ- mental objectives. The loans are consequently assigned to the first environmental objective. There is no remaining amount that is al- located to other environmental objectives. For general-purpose loans and securities, the company KPIs were used. For the 2024 financial year, the availability of KPIs improved significantly; more- over, KPIs could be used for the first time for Taxonomy alignment of financial institutions. The extension of the EU Taxonomy to include nuclear and gas entered into force on 1 January 2023, so the corresponding data for companies – and, for the first time, also for financial institutions – will be included in this report for the first time (for general-pur- pose loans and securities). The financed economic activities in the nuclear and gas sector are part of the GAR (stock). In addition, we are required to report the shares in the GAR (stock) in separate templates in the Notes. We have not provided any further templates for the additional KPIs for reasons of non-materiality and readabil- ity.7 We have not identified any loans with a purpose in the nuclear and gas sector. Commerzbank’s own understanding of sustainability in these activities is described in greater detail in the ESG framework. We have a principle of not financing any new nuclear power plants. The same is true for uranium mines. We have strict requirements for assets involving fossil fuels and generally take a critical view of such exposure. At the same time, we see the need for gas as a tran- sition technology over the coming years to ensure continued sta- bility of supply. We therefore critically scrutinise financing for the construction of gas-fired power plants on a case-by-case basis."
"94 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 [E1-1] Transition plan for climate change mitigation Commerzbank aims to actively shape the transformation towards a sustainable economy. To achieve this, we have established a comprehensive sustainability strategy, with the core objective of becoming a Net-Zero Bank. Further information on key compo- nents of this sustainability strategy can be found in ESRS E1-2 and E1-4. So far, Commerzbank has not published an explicit transition plan for climate change mitigation, as required under ESRS E1-1. We are currently developing such a climate transition plan, in which we will disclose further information about our transfor- mation path. Approval by the Bank’s Board of Managing Direc- tors and subsequent publication of the climate transition plan are earmarked for 2025. [E1-2] Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Banking operations Commerzbank AG has set itself the goal of reducing emissions from its own operations to net zero by 2040. This applies to all locations in Germany and abroad. Unavoidable CO2eq emissions are offset by certificates from CO2eq reduction projects. Renew- able energies play a central role in our energy supply. Further- more, we aim to achieve a climate-neutral supplier portfolio by 2040. Our strategies incorporate climate change mitigation, energy efficiency and other environmental criteria in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. In implementing our goals, we are committed to complying with relevant standards and initiatives enacted by third parties, including in particular the Paris Agreement, the Science-based Targets initiative (SBTi) and the UN Global Compact. In addition, we are a member of the Association for Environmental Manage- ment and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (Verein für Um- weltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e. V. (VfU)). With these strategies and policies, Commerzbank is respond- ing to the material impacts of its business activities. By publicly communicating our climate change mitigation targets, we can set a benchmark and have a positive influence on competitors. These overarching objectives, strategies and standards apply to all sustainability policies in relation to banking operations and are publicly available on our website. ESG framework Our ambitious sustainability targets are published and described in our ESG framework. The core components of the framework that are central to banking operations include sustainable opera- tions and stakeholder management. Responsibility for the ESG framework lies with Group Sustain- ability Management, while Group Organisation & Security over- sees implementation of sustainable operations. The ESG framework applies to Commerzbank AG as well as to selected subsidiaries. Commerzbank emphasises great importance to communica- tion with all stakeholders, encompassing our customers, inves- tors, rating agencies, analysts, non-governmental organisations, policymakers and the general public. We keep in contact with our major stakeholders through personal dialogue, discussion events, strategic partnerships and various public communication chan- nels. Progress is monitored by means of an annual process for col- lecting, analysing and reporting relevant operational-environ- mental sustainability indicators. Commerzbank environmental guidelines Our comprehensive environmental guidelines outline the princi- ples of environmentally friendly business activities. These guide- lines are based on international standards and take into account all relevant aspects along our entire value chain, including the core elements of corporate responsibility, climate change mitiga- tion and climate change adaptation, resource-conserving energy use, prevention of environmental damage, promotion of biodiver- sity, transition to a circular economy, climate-neutral supplier portfolio, mobility of our employees and ongoing improvements to our environmental performance. The environmental guidelines adopted by the Board of Managing Directors serve as operating procedures for all employees of the Commerzbank Group. The Group Organisation & Security division is responsible for imple- mentation. Our environmental and energy management system"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 95 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report is certified according to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 for Com- merzbank AG and selected subsidiaries. This underlines our commitment to continuously improve our environmental perfor- mance and energy efficiency. Regular reports to the Board of Di- rectors ensure the effectiveness of our management systems. Standard for sustainable procurement With its standard for sustainable procurement, Commerzbank has laid down binding guidelines governing sustainability mat- ters when purchasing goods and services. The environmental, so- cial and governance criteria specified in the standard reflect Commerzbank’s corporate responsibility demands of its service providers and suppliers. Therefore, Commerzbank also actively influences the sustainable orientation of suppliers and service providers through purchasing decisions. The regulations defined by Corporate Procurement are binding for all units of Commerzbank AG both in Germany and abroad. The target group includes all process participants involved in procurement. The standard serves as a framework for subsidiar- ies in Germany and abroad when making internal decisions based on company-specific requirements. The standard for sustainable procurement promotes sustain- able development in the procurement process. The defined crite- ria and rules of conduct are intended to make the consideration of sustainability aspects practicable for all process partici- pants. In addition, the standard aims to raise awareness among Commerzbank employees on the topic of sustainability. Within the context of the internal control system, controls have been defined for evaluating suppliers prior to entering into new contractual relationships as well as for managing existing suppli- ers. These also include ESG criteria as a part of an overall scoring model. When selecting suppliers, Commerzbank’s Reputational Risk Management analyses the suppliers on a case-by-case basis. The commissioning organisational units and Corporate Procure- ment evaluate service providers to ensure compliance with the requirements outlined in the standard. We notify suppliers of any necessary improvements in terms of sustainability performance and document the results of the assessments. Banking business Commerzbank AG’s climate change mitigation targets in the cus- tomer business and the steps required to achieve these objectives are explicitly governed by the ESG framework and the associated internal “ESG Framework Policy”. In this policy and the underly- ing procedures, Commerzbank AG sets out the building blocks of its sustainability strategy and describes how the three sustaina- bility KPIs are managed:  Net zero carbon emissions in the loan and investment portfo- lio by 2050  Mobilising €300bn in sustainable products by 2025  Net zero carbon emissions in banking operations by 2040 One concrete goal is therefore to create transparency in our sustainability activities, including a clear definition of what ESG means in our customer business. The framework also presents our sustainable product solutions and consolidates the sustaina- bility guidelines and exclusion criteria. Commerzbank published a revised framework in February 2025, which has been updated to include an expanded and optimised set of sustainability targets and has undergone a fundamental redesign in terms of structure. Climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation are addressed in the ESG framework and in the corresponding policy, primarily through the net zero target, SBTi management, binding exclusion criteria and minimum standards, consideration of cli- mate matters in risk management, as well as by financing sus- tainable projects and offering sustainable products. The topic of renewable energies is addressed through financing for projects in this area, for example through the Centre of Competence Green Infrastructure Finance. The main objective of the framework and internal policy is to create a Bank-wide standard that enables stringent management of the relevant products, processes and activities, paving the way for the sustainable transformation of Commerzbank AG. The ESG framework therefore describes both Commerzbank’s impacts on the environment (“Save the World” perspective) and the environ- ment’s impacts on Commerzbank AG (“Save the Bank” perspec- tive), encompassing both the risk and impact perspectives of the associated business activities. Significant opportunities arise in the sustainability context from sustainable product solutions (fi- nancing and investments), which are covered by the €300bn tar- get. Commerzbank AG’s sustainability efforts as described in the framework are operationalised and monitored using the three sustainability KPIs. The Group Sustainability Board, a Bank-wide committee focusing on sustainability issues that is attended by members of the Board of Managing Directors, is responsible for the ESG framework. The head of Group Strategy, Transformation & Sustainability division and the steering committee of the stra- tegic initiative “Sustainability 360°” are responsible for the inter- nal policy."
"96 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 The process of developing the ESG framework actively incor- porated the interests of relevant internal and external stakehold- ers (e.g. political bodies, non-governmental organisations, customers and investors) and directly involved internal stake- holders. With regard to the internal policy, all relevant depart- ments were likewise consulted during the drafting process. The ESG framework is available on our website. The internal policy, as part of the written rules of procedure, is available in- ternally to all Commerzbank employees. Various other guidelines and procedures within the Bank, including those from other de- partments, are linked or sub-assigned to the policy. Managing financed emissions via the SBTi Commerzbank has implemented a wide range of internal guide- lines and procedures to manage the requirements under the SBTi. These steering guidelines, which also clarify the roles and re- sponsibilities for SBTi management, outline the minimum stand- ards adopted by Commerzbank for SBTi management both at the level of the overall portfolio and for the individual business seg- ments. The most important guidelines include the following:  The Net Zero (SBTi) Steering Guideline defines roles and re- sponsibilities for net zero and SBTi management and sets minimum standards for managing portfolios and individual business areas.  The Net Zero (SBTi) Portfolio Calculation & Target Setting Procedure defines the SBTi target curves for the portfolios, the relevant sectors and the underlying parameters.  Various other steering guidelines and procedural instructions specify the segment-specific steering requirements for the corporate client business, the private customer business and Treasury. These include control measures, reporting obliga- tions, and roles and responsibilities. The target group of these guidelines, which were approved by the relevant competent authorities, are the responsible divisions within Commerzbank AG. The overarching Net Zero (SBTi) Steer- ing Guideline was also initially approved by the Group-wide sus- tainability project at Board level, following alignment with the relevant stakeholders. The internal guidelines form part of the written framework and are available internally to all employees of Commerzbank AG. The key principles of portfolio management under the SBTi are also communicated externally as part of the ESG framework. The process of developing the SBTi target pathways is subject to regular monitoring and quarterly updates to senior manage- ment, including the Board of Managing Directors of Com- merzbank, by means an internal report detailing the progress made on achieving the SBTi targets. A traffic light system was developed in 2024 to evaluate deviations in actual development from the target curves and devise appropriate countermeasures where necessary, depending on the extent of deviation from the target pathway. In addition, the SBTi Net Zero Dashboard, de- signed as a controlling instrument, has been continuously ex- panded to improve performance and deliver more meaningful results. Finally, the data basis has been optimised, new real data has been integrated and work has begun on preparing implemen- tation of the new SBTi standard for financial institutions. Our risk management addresses both the physical and transi- tion risks identified in the annual materiality assessment for cli- mate-related risks, while SBTi management addresses the identified impacts. More details on this analysis can be found in ESRS E1 SBM-3. [E1-3] Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies Climate change mitigation measures in banking operations We are conscious of our responsibility as a company and are ac- tively committed to the transformation towards an environmentally sustainable society. Through innovative technologies, energy effi- ciency measures, and the transition to renewable energy sources, we are consistently working on reducing our environmental foot- print. We have established an integrated environmental and energy management system (integriertes Umwelt- und Energiemanage- mentsystem (iUEMS)) in accordance with our environmental guidelines. Since 2009 Commerzbank AG and selected subsidiar- ies have had an environmental management system certified ac- cording to ISO 14001 and since 2015 an energy management system certified according to ISO 50001. This ensures that respon- sibilities, behaviors, processes and guidelines for implementing the corporate environmental and energy policy are systematically defined and documented. The focus is on optimising resource con- sumption, particularly in areas where we can have a direct impact on the environment, such as in building management and business travel."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 97 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report The primary purpose of the integrated environmental and en- ergy management system is to continuously improve our environ- mental and energy performance. In addition, it contributes to minimise risks by regularly reviewing the status quo, which in turn enables us to identify areas early on where action is needed and take appropriate preventive measures. In the reporting year, we implemented measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in banking operations. At Com- merzbank AG’s international locations, the power supply has been switched to green electricity. This initiative led to a reduction of indirect emissions in Scope 2 by approximately 3,900 t CO2eq. In- troducing green district heating at our headquarters also cut indi- rect emissions in Scope 2 by around 800 t CO2eq. For the 2025 financial year, Commerzbank AG expects a further decrease in di- rect Scope 1 emissions of approximately 700 t CO2eq, achieved by optimising the use of space at a major German location. These measures are important decarbonisation levers. The financial re- sources to implement the above-mentioned measures are available. In addition to the measures described, further initiatives are in discussion to help us achieve our climate targets. We are commit- ted to expanding our contribution to climate change mitigation and shaping a sustainable future together with our partners. Financial resources for implementing measures The CapEx and OpEx indicators are not suitable for the banking sector and therefore are not applicable, which is why we do not report the KPIs related to CapEx and OpEx. This is supported by the Taxonomy Regulation, which in Article 8 refers to turnover, CapEx (capital expenditure) and OpEx (operational expenditure) as key performance indicators for non-financial companies. Climate change mitigation in customer business A key driver of Commerzbank’s efforts to have a positive impact on climate change and a core element of its sustainability strat- egy is the Bank’s strategic target of reducing carbon emissions from its entire loan and investment portfolio to Net-Zero by 2050. To achieve this goal, Commerzbank has identified and ana- lysed carbon-intensive industries in its portfolio based on the methodological guidelines of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and defined target pathways until 2030 for reducing greenhouse gases based on scientifically calculated targets. 8 Base value: 38,507 tonnes CO2eq Using the SBTi method, Commerzbank has set concrete sector- specific targets for reducing the physical carbon emissions inten- sity associated with its loan and investment portfolio (including “financed emissions”) with a view to achieving its Net-Zero com- mitment by 2050. Further information can be found in ESRS E1-4. [E1-4] Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Setting GHG emissions reduction targets in banking operations As a core driver part of our sustainability strategy, we have set ourselves the goal of reducing carbon emissions from Com- merzbank AG’s banking operations to Net-Zero by 2040. This in- cludes all direct and indirect emissions that are under our operational control. We also aim to have a climate-neutral sup- plier portfolio by 2040. In setting our targets, we considered the interests of our stakeholders as well as the climate-related im- pacts, risks and opportunities categorised as material at that time. The reduction targets support the management of these factors in banking operations based on the double materiality analysis (see SBM-3). For Commerzbank AG and selected subsidiaries, a GHG re- duction target for banking operations has been set in line with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). It envisages a 42% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2030 com- pared to the base year 20218. This target has been validated by the SBTi as scientifically based and consistent with the Paris Agreement climate targets. Our targets refer to CO2eq, which includes CO2 as well as other relevant greenhouse gases and ensures consistency with our CO2eq accounting. As part of the first-time application of CSRD requirements in the Bank’s sustainability reporting, 2024 has been defined as the new base year."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 97 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report The primary purpose of the integrated environmental and en- ergy management system is to continuously improve our environ- mental and energy performance. In addition, it contributes to minimise risks by regularly reviewing the status quo, which in turn enables us to identify areas early on where action is needed and take appropriate preventive measures. In the reporting year, we implemented measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in banking operations. At Com- merzbank AG’s international locations, the power supply has been switched to green electricity. This initiative led to a reduction of indirect emissions in Scope 2 by approximately 3,900 t CO2eq. In- troducing green district heating at our headquarters also cut indi- rect emissions in Scope 2 by around 800 t CO2eq. For the 2025 financial year, Commerzbank AG expects a further decrease in di- rect Scope 1 emissions of approximately 700 t CO2eq, achieved by optimising the use of space at a major German location. These measures are important decarbonisation levers. The financial re- sources to implement the above-mentioned measures are available. In addition to the measures described, further initiatives are in discussion to help us achieve our climate targets. We are commit- ted to expanding our contribution to climate change mitigation and shaping a sustainable future together with our partners. Financial resources for implementing measures The CapEx and OpEx indicators are not suitable for the banking sector and therefore are not applicable, which is why we do not report the KPIs related to CapEx and OpEx. This is supported by the Taxonomy Regulation, which in Article 8 refers to turnover, CapEx (capital expenditure) and OpEx (operational expenditure) as key performance indicators for non-financial companies. Climate change mitigation in customer business A key driver of Commerzbank’s efforts to have a positive impact on climate change and a core element of its sustainability strat- egy is the Bank’s strategic target of reducing carbon emissions from its entire loan and investment portfolio to Net-Zero by 2050. To achieve this goal, Commerzbank has identified and ana- lysed carbon-intensive industries in its portfolio based on the methodological guidelines of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and defined target pathways until 2030 for reducing greenhouse gases based on scientifically calculated targets. 8 Base value: 38,507 tonnes CO2eq Using the SBTi method, Commerzbank has set concrete sector- specific targets for reducing the physical carbon emissions inten- sity associated with its loan and investment portfolio (including “financed emissions”) with a view to achieving its Net-Zero com- mitment by 2050. Further information can be found in ESRS E1-4. [E1-4] Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation Setting GHG emissions reduction targets in banking operations As a core driver part of our sustainability strategy, we have set ourselves the goal of reducing carbon emissions from Com- merzbank AG’s banking operations to Net-Zero by 2040. This in- cludes all direct and indirect emissions that are under our operational control. We also aim to have a climate-neutral sup- plier portfolio by 2040. In setting our targets, we considered the interests of our stakeholders as well as the climate-related im- pacts, risks and opportunities categorised as material at that time. The reduction targets support the management of these factors in banking operations based on the double materiality analysis (see SBM-3). For Commerzbank AG and selected subsidiaries, a GHG re- duction target for banking operations has been set in line with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). It envisages a 42% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2030 com- pared to the base year 20218. This target has been validated by the SBTi as scientifically based and consistent with the Paris Agreement climate targets. Our targets refer to CO2eq, which includes CO2 as well as other relevant greenhouse gases and ensures consistency with our CO2eq accounting. As part of the first-time application of CSRD requirements in the Bank’s sustainability reporting, 2024 has been defined as the new base year."
"98 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 Setting greenhouse gas reduction targets in our banking business For Commerzbank’s business model as a universal bank, fi- nanced emissions under Scope 3 are the main driver of green- house gas emissions. Cutting these emissions is a key goal of Commerzbank’s sustainability strategy, which is why since 2021 Commerzbank AG has set itself the strategic target of reducing carbon emissions in its entire loan and investment portfolio to Net-Zero by 2050. This target and the steps defined to achieve it are also disclosed in Commerzbank’s ESG framework (see ESRS E1-3). An interim target for the absolute reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not planned at the present time. Managing emis- sions-intensive sectors through relative targets takes portfolio growth opportunities into account and in the long term will also reduce the financed emissions in absolute terms. To that end, Commerzbank AG has identified and analysed carbon-intensive sectors in its portfolio based on the methodo- logical guidelines laid down by the Science Based Target Initia- tive (SBTi). When setting its SBTi targets, Commerzbank used SBTi-aligned methodologies that apply the Sectoral Decarboni- zation Approach and aim to limit global warming to 1.5°C or well below 2°C. The targets are in line with international policy objec- tives such as the Paris Agreement and the EU’s climate targets. For its science-based approach, the SBTi uses climate science models such as the pathways defined by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as well as scenarios developed by established players like the International Energy Agency (IEA). These determine the global carbon budget required to limit warming to 1.5 °C or well below 2 °C. Based on the climate sci- ence models mentioned above, the SBTi develops sector-specific criteria and methodologies that allow companies to set their own emissions reduction targets consistent with these pathways. These sector-specific decarbonisation pathways also take into ac- count the broader context of sustainable development by incor- porating relevant environmental, social and economic factors and pay attention to specific regional impacts exerted by the Bank’s business activities. In addition, the SBTi reviews and approves companies’ individual targets by means of a validation process to confirm that they meet the relevant criteria. This ensures that they are consistent with the latest climate science and best prac- tices for reducing emissions. Implementation at Commerzbank AG All portfolios specified according to the SBTi method are man- aged with a focus on emissions-intensive sectors. These include power generation, aviation, automotive manufacturing, commer- cial real estate finance (residential and commercial use) and the production of cement, iron and steel. The private residential mortgage loan portfolio, which is deemed optional in the SBTi analysis, is also considered. By taking into account the most car- bon-intensive elements of the overall economic value chain, it can be assumed that if these sectors are transformed, other parts of the portfolio will be transformed as well. Corresponding emis- sions intensity reduction targets by 2030 were formulated for all these portfolios for the first time in 2022 and subsequently vali- dated by the SBTi in 2023. As announced in September 2023, Commerzbank has joined the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF). Therefore, in 2023 we also adapted our meth- odology for calculating portfolio intensities to the internationally recognised PCAF standard. In the course of applying this stand- ard, we additionally recalculated the starting point in the base year 2021 and determined new target values for 2030. The tar- gets remained as ambitious as before, or became slightly more ambitious, because the sectors of cement and steel were moved from a 1.8°C pathway to a 1.5°C pathway. We still await final con- firmation of the adjusted targets from the SBTi revalidation pro- cess. Methodological updates required by SBTi or PCAF moving forward will be reviewed and, depending on the decision, incor- porated as needed in accordance with the prescribed transition periods. Another development was the SBTi Net-Zero Dashboard, which serves as a controlling instrument for the SBTi-relevant sectors. The dashboard provides an overview of the emissions intensities in the individual portfolios and shows the relation to the respective SBTi reduction pathway. As part of the SBTi framework, two methods are applied for this Net-Zero target: first, the Sectoral Decarbonization Approach (SDA), a method for setting sector-specific intensity targets; and second, the Temperature Score approach, which helps financial institutions determine the current temperature score of their portfolio based on the public emissions reduction targets of their borrowers. The following tables show the carbon reduction pathways we have defined up to 2030, broken down by SDA sectors and using the temperature score approach."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 99 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Reduction targets under the Sectoral Decarbonization Approach (SDA) Asset class1 Sectors CO2 reduction paths until 2030 and achieved reductions 09/20242 Utilisation in € bn, per 09/2024 Financed emissions in Mt CO2eq, per 09/2024 Scope Reduction ambition Target path As-of date Metric Consumer loans Residential mortgage loans 57% (1.5°) 12/2021 (Is) 45.8 kg CO2eq/m2 96.8 1.8 Scope 1 and 2 09/2024 (Is) 44.3 kg CO2eq/m2 12/2030 (Target) 19.8 kg CO2eq/m2 Project financing/ corporate loans and investments Energy 74% (1.5°) 12/2021 (Is) 97.3 g CO2eq/kWh 8.7 1.5 Scope 1 09/2024 (Is) 62.2 g CO2eq/kWh 12/2030 (Target) 25.6 g CO2eq/kWh Corporate loans Commercial real estate, commercial use 67% (1.5°) 12/2021 (Is) 87.4 kg CO2eq/m2 5.9 0.2 Scope 1 and 2 09/2024 (Is) 86.3 kg CO2eq/m2 12/2030 (Target) 28.4 kg CO2eq/m2 Commercial real estate, residential use 57% (1.5°) 12/2021 (Is) 36.6 kg CO2eq/m2 3.2 0.0 Scope 1 and 2 09/2024 (Is) 35.6 kg CO2eq/m2 12/2030 (Target) 15.8 kg CO2eq/m2 Corporate loans and investments Iron and steel 25% (1.5°) 12/2021 (Is) 1.4 t CO2eq/t Steel 0.2 0.4 Scope 1 and 2 09/2024 (Is) 1.3 t CO2eq/t Steel 12/2030 (Target) 1.0 t CO2eq/t Steel Cement 23% (1.5°) 12/2021 (Is) 0.7 t CO2eq/t Cement 0.1 0.3 Scope 1 and 2 09/2024 (Is) 0.7 t CO2eq/t Cement 12/2030 (Target) 0.5 t CO2eq/t Cement Automotive manufacturing 31% (1.8°) 12/2021 (Is) 171.5 g CO2eq/pkm 0.7 0.1 Scope 3 09/2024 (Is) 148.5 g CO2eq/pkm 12/2030 (Target) 117.7 g CO2eq/pkm Aviation3 22% (1.8°) 12/2021 (Is) 795.9 g CO2eq/tkm 1.4 0.9 Scope 1 and 3 09/2024 (Is) 809.6 g CO2eq/tkm 12/2030 (Target) 620.3 g CO2eq/tkm 1 If no emissions data are available for individual customers in SDA sectors, these are included in the temperature score. We comply with the SBTi minimum coverage rules. 2 The specified carbon reduction pathways represent the actual or target status at the end of the respective period under review, with 2021 considered the base year and 2030 the target year. 3 The SDA target for aviation generally does not yet form part of the current SBTi validation. This is because the SBTi’s SDA methodology for aviation is currently still designed for the real economy and has not yet been approved for financial institutions."
"100 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 Reduction targets under the Temperature Score method Asset class Sector Metric GHG Scope Temperature Score1 Utilisation in € bn, per 09/2024 Financed emissions in Mt CO2eq, per 09/2024 As-of date Metric Corporate loans All other Temperature Score Scope 1+2 12/2021 (Is) 3.11 ° C 68.0 11.1 09/2024 (Is) 2.89 ° C 12/2026 (Target) 2.69 ° C Scope 1+2+3 12/2021 (Is) 3.15 ° C 28.0 09/2024 (Is) 2.95 ° C 12/2026 (Target) 2.71 ° C Investments2 All other Temperature Score Scope 1+2 12/2021 (Is) 3.03 ° C 19.7 1.9 09/2024 (Is) 2.75 ° C 12/2026 (Target) 2.63 ° C Scope 1+2+3 12/2021 (Is) 3.07 ° C 3.0 09/2024 (Is) 2.91 ° C 12/2026 (Target) 2.66 ° C 1 The specified temperature scores represent the actual or target status at the end of the respective period under review, with 2021 considered the base year and 2026 the target year. 2 Utilisation in the investment asset class includes the Commerzbank AG stake in mBank (approximately €4.2bn as at September 2024); the information on financed emissions from this asset class does not include financed emissions from mBank. Assessing performance The percentage reductions in the specified sectors are derived from the applicable emissions intensity for the base year 2021 and the targets for 2030. The emissions intensities were calculated using the loan transactions and investments that were actually carried out and are relevant for the balance sheet. The SBTi also requires min- imum levels of portfolio coverage; Commerzbank complies with these thresholds. Achieving the SBTi reduction pathways presents a necessary challenge and a vital opportunity at the same time – something that Commerzbank would like to tackle together with its customers. In order to reduce sector-specific emissions intensities, customers in Commerzbank’s portfolio must undertake major transformation ef- forts by themselves. Ultimately, however, the green transformation is a joint undertaking of the entire real and financial economy, as well as politics and society. The SDA-relevant loan and investment portfolio consists of cus- tomers whose main activities can be attributed to the most carbon- intensive industrial sectors. The main drivers of sector-specific emissions intensities are the portfolio composition resulting from customers’ drawdown patterns (i.e. utilisations), and the carbon emissions intensities of the respective customers themselves. Since the variables mentioned are subject to certain fluctuations over time, the sector intensities shown also exhibit volatility in the same way. In the area of energy generation, the Commerzbank portfolio at the end of September 2024 performed much better than the target pathway. Of particular note here is the Bank’s strategic focus on project financing in the area of renewable energies. Commerzbank plans to expand this position further over the next few years. The emissions intensity trend in the customer portfolio is also largely satisfactory in the automotive manufacturing, iron and steel sectors. Developments are challenging, especially in the cement sector as well as in the private and commercial real estate finance sector. The trend in the cement sector is primarily due to changes in the total lending of individual large corporate clients with a high carbon intensity in 2022, which so far could not be offset. Commerzbank had not yet established SBTi steering back in 2022. In real estate financing – in contrast to other sectors – the extent to which a trans- formation can be implemented in the sometimes very long-term ex- isting business is limited for legal reasons. It is to be expected that existing business will also improve thanks to increasing modernisa- tion and the use of sustainable energy sources. However, the time horizon involved is very long-term and the process cannot be ac- tively controlled by the Bank. The lever for transforming these port- folios lies much more in new business. The nationwide collapse in the real estate finance business, due in part to the extensive con- struction freezes on the back of market uncertainties and price in- creases, therefore had a negative impact on achieving targets in this sub-portfolio. Future developments here will be heavily dependent on a possible upswing in the new construction business as well as on the political and legal framework conditions supporting the transformation. At present, it cannot be ruled out that these portfo- lios will not achieve their targets."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 101 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Incorporation of SBTi targets in steering Commerzbank also takes SBTi targets into account in its portfolio steering. For the steering of significant individual transactions in carbon-intensive sectors, a process has been established for evalu- ating relevant exposures in relation to the strategic sustainability targets, including the Net-Zero (SBTi) sector target pathways. This process has been in place since 2021 and is continuously updated and enhanced. The tools for SBTi portfolio steering will be progres- sively expanded. The steering was operationalised further in the 2024 reporting year. Working with existing and new customers, we aim to achieve the targets using the following measures:  Sector-specific client engagement dialogue, particularly in emis- sions-intensive sectors, and provision of dedicated human re- sources for this purpose  Customer-specific transformation advice, including the financ- ing instruments required for the transformation  Classification of customers according to SBTi aspects, develop- ment of operational target pathways, and translation of targets into measures and financing solutions at customer level  Active credit and investment portfolio management along the SBTi sector pathways  Expansion of the sustainable product range  Differentiated pricing models, on a portfolio-specific basis where feasible  Consistent implementation of the fossil fuel guideline The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is achieved on the basis of internal control targets. These are not reported externally. [E1-6] Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Basis for calculating gross GHG emissions from banking operations Commerzbank determines GHG emissions based on the standard of the Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (Verein für Umweltmanagement und Na- chhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e. V. (VfU)). This is aligned to inter- nationally recognised guidelines such as the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the Global Re- porting Initiative (GRI). Emissions are calculated as CO2 equivalents (CO2eq), which makes it possible to compare the climate impact of different greenhouse gases. The GHG Protocol considers the follow- ing greenhouse gases: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). The use of CO2 equivalents allows companies to express their total green- house gas emissions in a comparable number. For this purpose, consumption is recorded in the respective catego- ries and converted into CO2eq using defined emission factors. The majority of emission factors come from the EcoInvent database, one of the world’s largest databases in the field of environmental ac- counting. The emission factors taken from the database are supple- mented by official country-specific emission factors. We differentiate emissions according to the GHG Protocol into the following globally common categories:  Scope 1 comprises emissions caused directly, for example through the consumption of natural gas, heating oil or fuel.  Scope 2 refers to emissions from purchased energy. These can be calculated both according to the statistical country mix (loca- tion-based method) and according to the actual purchased en- ergy mix (market-based method). Both methods are included in our calculation of total emissions and are reported separately.  Scope 3 relates to other indirect emissions from the upstream and downstream value chain. The significance of emissions was also reassessed as part of CSRD implementation. As a financial institution, our greatest lever for decarbonisation lies in financed emissions (Scope 3.15 cate- gory). Due to the comparatively small share of remaining Scope 3 emissions, these categories were classified as not significant. To maintain continuity with our previous reporting, we will continue to publish Scope 3 emissions within the same scope as before. These comprise other indirect emissions from the upstream and downstream value chain, including paper and water consumption, waste generation, activities related to fuels and energy, business travel and logistic transport, employee commuting and electricity used in home offices. The consumption data, the collection method and the calculated CO2eq emissions of Commerzbank AG are verified externally by DNV Business Assurance Certification (DNV Business Assurance Zertifizierung GmbH). Reporting according to the CSRD or the ESRS has shifted the organisational boundaries of our reporting and the control ap- proach, from the previously used operational control to a combined financial and operational control. Operational control exists when Commerzbank has an influence on the assets or properties to be recognised, for example through the introduction and implementation of operational guidelines. Fi- nancial control exists when Commerzbank has control over the fi- nancial and business policy of the company whose assets are to be accounted for. Financial control can exist independently of opera- tional control."
"106 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 Owned financed emissions (disaggregated by PCAF asset class) PCAF Asset Class Sector (if applicable) Total outstanding loans and investments Mio € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Weighted data quality score (1 (high) - 5 (low)), Scope 1 and Scope 2 Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Weighted data quality score (1 (high) - 5 (low)), Scope 3 separately2 Listed equity and corporate bonds 34,230.0 2,791,475.6 3.9 1,633,758.5 3.9 Business loans and unlisted equity 85,190.0 20,184,862.0 4.5 30,223,360.1 4.6 Project finance Power generation 6,464.4 0.0 - 0.0 - Planes - 0.0 - 0.0 - Ships - 0.0 - 0.0 - Other projects - 0.0 - 0.0 - Total 6,464.4 0.0 3.0 0.0 4.9 Commercial real estate CRE Commercial Use 6,969.0 243,466.1 - 0.0 - CRE Residential Use 3,213.9 28,200.8 - 0.0 - Total 10,182.9 271,666.9 4.0 0.0 4.0 Mortgages Residential Mortgages 107,631.9 2,206,471.7 4.0 0.0 - Sovereign debt Sovereign debt (inclusive LULUCF1) 21,874.7 5,895,929.8 2.0 1,269,025.5 4.0 Sovereign debt (exclusive LULUCF1) 21,874.7 5,966,753.3 2.0 Motor Vehicle Loans 81.4 32,512.9 3.8 0.0 - Total 265,655.5 31,382,918.9 4.0 33,126,144.2 4.2 1 LULUCF refers to land use, land use change and forestry). 2 Data quality scores are reported at asset class level. Managed financed emissions (disaggregated by PCAF asset class) PCAF Asset Class Sector (if applicable) Total outstanding loans and investments Mio € Scope 1+2 emissions tCO2eq Weighted data quality score (1 (high) - 5 (low)), Scope 1 and Scope 2 Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Weighted data quality score (1 (high) - 5 (low)), Scope 3 separately2 Listed equity and corporate bonds 15,338.2 1,167,782.9 3.4 6,869,947.9 3.5 Business loans and unlisted equity 0.0 - - - - Project finance Power generation 4,684.4 3,783.9 - 83,017.2 - Planes 70.7 137,509.4 - 35,026.6 - Ships 3.2 3,509.7 - 306.1 - Other projects 1,259.1 376,075.9 - 262,716.8 - Total 6,017.5 520,878.8 4.1 381,066.7 4.4 Commercial real estate CRE Commercial Use 16,458.7 103,780.8 - 0.0 - CRE Residential Use 1,617.8 5,001.9 - 0.0 - Total 18,076.5 108,782.7 2.3 0.0 0.0 Mortgages Residential Mortgages 0.0 - - - - Sovereign debt Sovereign debt (inclusive LULUCF1) 2,999.3 502,897.0 3.8 204,918.5 4.6 Sovereign debt (exclusive LULUCF1) 2,999.3 526,431.0 3.8 Motor Vehicle Loans 0.0 - - - - Total 42,431.5 2,300,341.5 3.1 7,455,933.0 3.9 1 LULUCF refers to land use, land use change and forestry). 2 Data quality scores are reported at asset class level."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 107 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Owned financed emissions in the PCAF asset class “Business loans and unlisted equity”, disaggregated by NACE level 2 NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Agriculture, forestry and fishing A.01 Crop and animal production, hunting and related service activities 594.7 1,446,857.3 2,432.8 332,722.6 559.5 A.02 Forestry and logging 2.4 5,818.1 2,439.5 1,351.2 566.6 A.03 Fishing and aquaculture 2.2 5,030.4 2,249.7 1,168.2 522.5 Mining and quarrying B.05 Mining of coal and lignite 72.0 117,645.0 1,633.5 60,196.5 835.8 B.06 Extraction of crude petroleum and natural gas 530.4 355,261.5 669.9 125,500.7 236.6 B.07 Mining of metal ores 72.3 103,042.2 1,426.1 119,772.2 1,657.6 B.08 Other mining and quarrying 187.5 170,252.8 908.2 88,318.3 471.1 B.09 Mining support service activities 6.2 7,845.8 1,258.6 2,256.7 362.0 Manufacturing C.10 Manufacture of food products 3,024.3 688,916.1 227.8 3,006,510.1 994.1 C.11 Manufacture of beverages 366.6 94,126.1 256.7 325,491.5 887.8 C.12 Manufacture of tobacco products 253.7 9,072.2 35.8 52,261.3 206.0 C.13 Manufacture of textiles 237.4 29,541.0 124.4 87,953.2 370.5 C.14 Manufacture of wearing apparel 260.3 20,300.5 78.0 77,022.4 295.9 C.15 Manufacture of leather and related products 112.8 13,468.9 119.4 41,997.1 372.2 C.16 Manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork, except furniture, manufacture of articles of straw and plaiting materials 768.8 116,579.9 151.6 274,536.7 357.1 C.17 Manufacture of paper and paper products 880.4 132,735.5 150.8 300,628.5 341.5 C.18 Printing and reproduction of recorded media 255.8 34,982.2 136.8 76,205.8 298.0 C.19 Manufacture of coke and refined petroleum products 465.5 381,825.5 820.2 485,281.5 1,042.4 C.20 Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products 2,444.6 1,069,039.8 437.3 1,239,782.3 507.1 C.21 Manufacture of basic pharmaceutical products and pharmaceutical preparations 1,200.6 259,011.5 215.7 371,788.0 309.7 C.22 Manufacture of rubber and plastic products 1,381.5 348,335.1 252.1 710,172.2 514.0 C.23 Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products 917.4 598,270.6 652.1 631,981.2 688.9 C.24 Manufacture of basic metals 1,030.7 836,233.8 811.3 1,377,544.2 1,336.5 C.25 Manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment 2,118.4 461,433.9 217.8 1,145,224.2 540.6 C.26 Manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products 2,535.0 112,181.6 44.3 414,563.1 163.5 C.27 Manufacture of electrical equipment 1,273.7 92,757.7 72.8 1,476,764.1 1,159.5 C.28 Manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c. 3,593.9 191,074.5 53.2 1,854,655.5 516.1 C.29 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers 4,751.0 149,663.0 31.5 1,729,299.3 364.0 C.30 Manufacture of other transport equipment 1,169.7 25,740.6 22.0 629,280.5 538.0 C.31 Manufacture of furniture 218.1 48,920.2 224.3 86,752.2 397.8 C.32 Other manufacturing 1,057.8 45,892.0 43.4 279,012.8 263.8 C.33 Repair and installation of machinery and equipment 45.4 26,109.4 574.7 39,923.9 878.8 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply D.35 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply 3,230.4 3,896,901.9 1,206.3 1,353,602.0 419.0"
"108 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Water supply; sewerage, waste management and remediation activities E.36 Water collection, treatment and supply 145.6 163,688.6 1,124.3 16,598.5 114.0 E.37 Sewerage 224.2 253,713.9 1,131.6 25,179.4 112.3 E.38 Waste collection, treatment and disposal activities, materials recovery 743.2 768,814.3 1,034.4 139,494.3 187.7 E.39 Remediation activities and other waste management services 319.6 341,197.7 1,067.5 45,244.8 141.6 Construction F.41 Construction of buildings 672.1 62,767.6 93.4 326,515.0 485.8 F.42 Civil engineering 422.6 32,821.9 77.7 178,273.4 421.9 F.43 Specialised construction activities 580.9 37,370.3 64.3 216,551.4 372.8 Wholesale and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles G.45 Wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles 1,194.8 154,546.7 129.3 295,063.3 247.0 G.46 Wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles 7,510.5 3,982,382.6 530.2 5,849,105.4 778.8 G.47 Retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles 2,548.1 261,557.6 102.6 552,993.5 217.0 Transportation and storage H.49 Land transport and transport via pipelines 1,007.7 184,864.0 183.4 194,409.2 192.9 H.50 Water transport 268.8 37,227.0 138.5 31,127.6 115.8 H.51 Air transport 1,570.6 791,063.4 503.7 799,372.7 509.0 H.52 Warehousing and support activities for transportation 1,890.3 223,610.6 118.3 320,221.4 169.4 H.53 Postal and courier activities 229.2 33,723.4 147.2 33,867.2 147.8 Accommodation and food service activities I.55 Accommodation 336.5 9,319.1 27.7 73,234.1 217.6 I.56 Food and beverage service activities 108.7 8,237.1 75.8 18,352.7 168.9 Information and communication J.58 Publishing activities 694.7 18,668.8 26.9 28,591.9 41.2 J.59 Motion picture, video and television programme production, sound recording and music publishing activities 294.8 13,317.7 45.2 17,946.5 60.9 J.60 Programming and broadcasting activities 242.6 4,883.9 20.1 4,972.2 20.5 J.61 Telecommunications 1,788.0 79,856.2 44.7 98,837.5 55.3 J.62 Computer programming, consultancy and related activities 1,016.5 55,902.3 55.0 139,908.7 137.6 J.63 Information service activities 388.7 15,378.4 39.6 39,251.6 101.0 Financial and insurance activities K.64 Financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding 13,888.3 48,585.6 3.5 177,813.2 12.8 K.65 Insurance, reinsurance and pension funding, except compulsory social security 42.0 28.3 0.7 163.1 3.9 K.66 Activities auxiliary to financial services and insurance activities 547.3 2,777.6 5.1 6,659.5 12.2 Real estate activities L.68 Real estate activities 3,169.8 127,162.3 40.1 617,723.1 194.9 Professional, scientific and technical activities M.69 Legal and accounting activities 126.5 7,991.9 63.2 12,757.0 100.9 M.70 Activities of head offices, management consultancy activities 2,586.6 146,127.4 56.5 319,357.6 123.5 M.71 Architectural and engineering activities, technical testing and analysis 318.1 62,746.5 197.3 96,459.6 303.3 M.72 Scientific research and development 22.8 2,456.9 107.9 4,925.5 216.2 M.73 Advertising and market research 169.4 16,825.9 99.3 25,823.9 152.4 M.74 Other professional, scientific and technical activities 502.0 23,827.7 47.5 40,297.6 80.3 M.75 Veterinary activities 79.6 2,770.8 34.8 12,674.2 159.1 N.77 Rental and leasing activities 1,352.2 61,378.2 45.4 201,248.6 148.8 N.78 Employment activities 347.7 46,708.8 134.3 77,248.5 222.2"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 109 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Administrative and support service activities N.79 Travel agency, tour operator and other reservation service and related activities 259.0 23,184.3 89.5 35,134.8 135.7 N.80 Security and investigation activities 100.1 28,606.6 285.8 55,051.0 550.0 N.81 Services to buildings and landscape activities 67.6 14,289.3 211.4 22,528.9 333.3 N.82 Office administrative, office support and other business support activities 386.0 30,543.8 79.1 47,449.5 122.9 Public administration and defence; compulsory social security O.84 Public administration and defence, compulsory social security 31.4 1,581.7 50.4 2,207.7 70.4 Education P.85 Education 81.1 4,959.1 61.1 8,915.8 109.9 Human health and social work activities Q.86 Human health activities 661.0 34,624.7 52.4 95,709.6 144.8 Q.87 Residential care activities 85.9 3,222.9 37.5 14,989.5 174.5 Q.88 Social work activities without accommodation 28.4 811.8 28.6 5,100.9 179.5 Arts, entertainment and recreation R.90 Creative, arts and entertainment activities 107.4 9,593.2 89.3 14,605.4 135.9 R.91 Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural activities 3.8 227.7 60.4 323.4 85.8 R.92 Gambling and betting activities 201.7 7,851.3 38.9 11,620.1 57.6 R.93 Sports activities and amusement and recreation activities 167.0 8,994.9 53.9 16,139.3 96.7 Other services activities S.94 Activities of membership organisations 150.3 10,157.2 67.6 13,926.5 92.6 S.95 Repair of computers and personal and household goods 0.2 56.2 276.5 300.6 1,479.1 S.96 Other personal service activities 446.6 26,766.7 59.9 41,472.1 92.9 Activities of households as employers; undifferentiated goods and services-producing activities of households for own-use T.97 Activities of households as employers of domestic personnel 0.2 223.5 1,291.3 101.2 584.6 T.98 Undifferentiated goods- and services- producing activities of private households for own use 0.0 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies U.99 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies 0.0 - - - -"
"110 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 [E1-7] GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits GHG removal and storage Climate change mitigation is an important aspect of our corporate responsibility. We continuously strive to further reduce our ecolog- ical footprint. We follow the principle of “Avoid and reduce before offsetting”. We offset unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions from our banking operations as well as selected Scope 3 emissions from Commerzbank AG by purchasing and cancelling high-quality car- bon credits. In the current reporting period, we offset a total of 96,934 tones of CO2eq through the purchase and cancellation of carbon credits outside the value chain. Of this, 25% is accounted for by the “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project in Pakistan, which uses nature-based methods to reduce carbon emissions through mangrove reforesta- tion. The remaining 75% comes from projects to avoid carbon emissions, including the “Nouakchott 30 MW Wind Power Plant” (wind energy in Mauritania) and the “CTL Landfill Gas Project” (biogas in Brazil). All projects mentioned meet the recognised qual- ity standards of the Verra Verified Carbon Standard or the Gold Standard. The “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project can also provide so- called Corresponding Adjustments. Detailed information on the individual projects can be found on our homepage on carbon off- setting for banking operations. Offsetting is based on our annually recorded and externally ver- ified Commerzbank AG greenhouse gas emissions. In the 2024 re- porting year we offset both current emissions and parts of emissions from 2023. Offsetting strategy All projects meet the highest quality standards. The integrity of emission reduction projects and the carbon credits generated from them is crucial to achieve effective carbon offsetting. We therefore act according to our principles for compensating unavoidable car- bon emissions when selecting projects. These principles relate to the quality of the credits, the technologies used and the countries where the projects are located. Offsetting is implemented exclu- sively through projects with generally recognised quality standards such as the Verra Verified Carbon Standard, Gold Standard or Plan Vivo. When selecting projects, we also follow the Core Carbon Prin- ciples (CCP) framework, which outlines a comprehensive approach to ensuring quality and integrity in the voluntary carbon market. The focus of the projects we select is on countries in the global South, as these are often the ones most affected by the conse- quences of climate change. We do not remove or store any greenhouse gases in our own operations or in the upstream and downstream value chain. Information on the reduction and storage of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon credits in tCO2eq tCO2eq 2024 GHG removals and storage in own operations and in the upstream and downstream value chain - GHG emission reductions or removals from climate change mitigation projects outside the value chain1 96,934 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year. Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year 2024 Total in tCO2eq1 96,934 Share from reduction projects (in %) 75.3 Share from removal projects (in %) 24.7 Share of recognised quality standard ""Gold Standard"" (in %) 31.0 Share of recognised quality standard ""Verra Verified Carbon Standard"" (in %) 69.1 Share from projects within the EU (in %) 0.0 Share that qualify as corresponding adjustments (in %) 24.7 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 27 27 Declaration on corporate governance pursuant to Sec. 289f and Sec. 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 39 Details pursuant to Sec. 289 and Sec. 315 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) In addition to the statutory requirements pursuant to Sec. 289f and Sec. 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB), the Board of Managing Directors and Supervisory Board must report on the Bank’s corporate governance in the declaration on corporate governance. This follows from Principle 23 of the German Corporate Governance Code in the version of 28 April 2022, published in the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) on 27 June 2022, on which this declaration is based. Both Commerzbank AG and the Commerzbank Group attach great importance to responsible and transparent corporate governance aimed at sustainable value creation. That is why the Board of Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board expressly support the goals and objectives set out in the German Corporate Governance Code. Recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code Commerzbank AG and its subsidiaries that are required by law to do so declare every year whether the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code have been and are being complied with and explain why individual recommendations are not being implemented. These annual declarations of compliance by the Board of Managing Directors and Supervisory Board are published on the websites of the individual companies. Commerzbank AG’s declarations can be found at https://investor-relations.commerzbank.com/de/- entsprechenserklaerung. There is also an archive of all the declarations of compliance made since 2002. The declaration valid as of 31 December 2024 was made in November 2024. As can be seen from the wording of the declaration below, Commerzbank AG complies with virtually all of the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code; it deviates from them in only one case: Since the submission of the last Declaration of Compliance in November 2023, the recommendations of the “German Corporate Governance Code Commission” in the version of 28 April 2022 – published in the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) on 27 June 2022 – have been and are being complied with, except for the following recommendation: According to Recommendation G.10 Sentence 2 of the Code, the granted long-term variable remuneration components shall be accessible to a member of the Board of Managing Directors only after a period of four years. The remuneration system for members of the Board of Managing Directors, in force since 1 January 2023, deviates from the recommendation, as members of the Board of Managing Directors can access part of their granted long-term incentive variable remuneration (LTI) before the end of the four- year period. The remuneration system provides that beginning with the LTI for the 2023 financial year, subject to the regular deferral period of five years, the LTI is payable in five tranches, each tranche equally split into a cash and a share-based payment. In addition, the share-based payment of the LTI is subject to a twelve-month retention period. This means that the members of the Board of Managing Directors receive 50% of the LTI before four full years have elapsed. The details are illustrated in the remuneration system for the Board of Managing Directors, which is published on the homepage. The payment of the LTI in tranches is consistent with the bank-specific regulatory requirements set out in the Remuneration Ordinance for Institutions (Institutsvergütungsverordnung). A further tightening of these bank-specific requirements is neither necessary nor appropriate. Concurrently, this system achieves a closer link between the payout of the LTIs and the success of the financial year for which the LTI-components are paid. Thereby, the members of the Board of Managing Directors are more directly incentivised. The remuneration system for the members of the Board of Managing Directors was revised and advanced in the 2024 financial year. The new remuneration system for members of the Board of Managing Directors will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting in May 2025 for approval and is expected to come into effect on 1 January 2026. The revised system is consistent with recommendation G.10 sentence 2 of the Code, so that, when it will enter into force in 2026, there will no longer be any deviation to declare in this regard. Further details on the new remuneration system for the Board of Managing Directors can be found on page 38, in the publication of the remuneration system on Commerzbank AG’s website and in the outlook on the new remuneration system that is contained in the remuneration report for the 2024 financial year under the AktG. Suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Code Commerzbank AG complies with all of the suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Code. Declaration on corporate governance pursuant to Sec. 289f and Sec. 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB)"
"28 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 Code recommendations not applicable because of overriding statutory provisions The German Corporate Governance Code states that its recommendations for banks and insurance companies only apply to the extent that no statutory provisions conflict with them. In accordance with recommendation F.4 of the Code, any conflicting statutory provisions and the effects on the declaration of compliance are to be disclosed in the declaration on corporate governance in the Annual Report. At Commerzbank AG this applies to recommendation D.4 of the Code, according to which the Supervisory Board should establish a nomination committee made up exclusively of shareholder representatives. According to the prevailing view, a general exclusion of employee representatives on the Supervisory Board from membership of a committee is only permissible if there is an objective reason for doing so. Such an objective reason could exist if a committee were to deal exclusively with matters relating only to the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board, for example if the sole task of the Nomination Committee were to prepare proposals for the election of shareholder representatives to be put to the Annual General Meeting. Under Sec. 25d (11) of the German Banking Act (KWG), however, the nomination committee of a bank is also assigned other tasks, including tasks for which the involvement of employee representatives is necessary and customary. For example, the nomination committee is tasked with assisting the respective company’s supervisory board in identifying candidates to fill management positions, and in the regular assessment of the management board and the supervisory board. The involvement of employee representatives in these tasks is established practice at Commerzbank AG. Nonetheless, in order to comply with recommendation D.4 of the Code as far as possible, the rules of procedure of the Presiding and Nomination Committee stipulate that the election proposals to be put to the Annual General Meeting be prepared only by the shareholder representatives on the committee. Company values and governance practices of Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft and the Commerzbank Group Commerzbank AG and its subsidiaries are committed to their corporate, environmental and social responsibilities. To ensure sustainable corporate governance, extensive standards were defined in various spheres of activity and published on Commerzbank AG’s website. The corporate values of integrity, performance and responsibility create the basis for the corporate culture. They shape both the way employees interact with each other and their behaviour towards customers, business partners and other stakeholders. These values take high priority at Commerzbank and show that Commerzbank is aware of its corporate responsibility. Based on its corporate values, Commerzbank AG has set out codes of conduct for acting with integrity, which provide all Commerzbank Group employees with a binding framework for lawful and ethically appropriate conduct in the day-to-day working environment. The codes of conduct are reviewed on a regular basis and revised if required; they were most recently revised in the 2024 financial year. In its environmental, social and governance (ESG) framework, Commerzbank AG sets out all the key components of its sustainability strategy and makes sustainability a central management parameter. In this way, the Bank provides its stakeholders with the greatest possible transparency regarding its understanding of sustainability. Commerzbank AG has thereby created a Bank-wide standard that enables rigorous management of all relevant products, processes and activities and ensures the sustainable transformation of Commerzbank. The ESG framework also defines positions and policies on environmental and social issues. These are applied to the evaluation of transactions and business relationships and thus act as important points of reference. The basis for their preparation and regular review is the ongoing monitoring of media and non- governmental organisations (NGOs) on controversial environmental or social issues and regular discussion with NGOs. In addition, specific environmental guidelines have been formulated to guide the management of operational environmental impacts. Board of Managing Directors Commerzbank AG’s Board of Managing Directors is responsible for independently managing the Bank in the company’s best interest. In doing so, it must consider the interests of shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders, with the objective of sustainable value creation. It develops the Bank’s strategic direction, discusses it with the Supervisory Board and ensures its implementation. In addition, it sees that efficient risk management and risk control measures are in place. The Board of Managing Directors simultaneously manages the Commerzbank Group as the Group executive body on the basis of uniform guidelines and exercises general control over all Group companies. It conducts the Bank’s business activities in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association, its rules of procedure, internal guidelines and the provisions of the relevant employment contracts. It cooperates on a basis of trust with Commerzbank AG’s other corporate bodies, the employee representatives and the corporate bodies of other Group companies."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 29 27 Declaration on corporate governance pursuant to Sec. 289f and Sec. 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 39 Details pursuant to Sec. 289 and Sec. 315 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) The composition of the Board of Managing Directors and the responsibilities of its individual members are presented on page 5 of this Annual Report. The work of the Board of Managing Directors is specified in greater detail in its rules of procedure, which may be viewed on Commerzbank AG’s website. The remuneration of the members of the Board of Managing Directors is presented in detail in the remuneration report, which is published on Commerzbank AG’s website. Supervisory Board Commerzbank AG’s Supervisory Board advises and monitors the Board of Managing Directors in its management of the Bank and is directly involved in decisions of fundamental importance. The Supervisory Board discharges its responsibilities in accordance with legal requirements, the Articles of Association and its rules of procedure. It cooperates closely and on a basis of trust with the Board of Managing Directors in the interests of the Bank. Taking into account the recommendations of the Presiding and Nomination Committee, the Supervisory Board decides on the appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of Managing Directors and, together with the Board of Managing Directors, ensures long-term succession planning. If necessary, external consultants are brought in. The composition of the Supervisory Board and the members of its committees are presented on pages 19 to 21 of this Annual Report, in accordance with recommendation D.2 of the German Corporate Governance Code. Details of the work of this body, its structure and its control function can be found in the report of the Supervisory Board on pages 6 to 18. Further details on how the Supervisory Board and its committees work can be found in the rules of procedure of the Supervisory Board, available on Commerzbank AG’s website. The duties of the individual permanent committees are set out in the respective rules of procedure, which can also be viewed on Commerzbank AG’s website. According to recommendation C.1 of the Code, the Supervisory Board should set concrete objectives and draw up a profile of skills and expertise for the board as a whole. In doing so, it should give consideration to diversity. The Supervisory Board’s skills and expertise profile shall also comprise expertise regarding sustainability issues relevant to the Bank. Appointments proposed by the Supervisory Board to the Annual General Meeting should take these objectives into account while also seeking to fulfil the profile of skills and expertise for the board as a whole. The status of implementation is to be disclosed in the form of a qualification matrix in the declaration on corporate governance. In addition, in accordance with recommendation C.2 of the Code, an age limit for members of the Supervisory Board should be specified and disclosed in the declaration on corporate governance. The length of Supervisory Board membership is also to be disclosed in accordance with recommendation C.3 of the Code. Commerzbank AG’s Supervisory Board has approved the following concrete objectives: The composition of the Supervisory Board should be such that, overall, its members have the necessary skills, expertise, experience and knowledge to be able to perform its duties properly. In particular, the Supervisory Board should have all the expertise and experience deemed essential for the activities of the Commerzbank Group. In addition, the legal requirements with regard to special expertise and professional experience of individual members of the Supervisory Board in specific areas must be met (for example, expertise in the areas of accounting and auditing, including sustainability reporting and auditing thereof, as well as in the areas of risk management and risk controlling), and at least one member of the Supervisory Board should have special expertise in Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues. The members of the Supervisory Board must be able to challenge and monitor the decisions made by the Board of Managing Directors. The members of the Supervisory Board should also be able to devote sufficient time to the performance of their duties. Members should be reliable, and consideration should be given to their commitment, personality, professionalism, integrity and independence. The target is that the Supervisory Board should always have at least eight members elected by the Annual General Meeting who are independent as defined in recommendation C.6 of the Code, and not more than two former members of Commerzbank AG’s Board of Managing Directors. The length of service of the Supervisory Board members elected by the Annual General Meeting should generally not exceed a period of 12 years. The term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board should generally end at the end of the Annual General Meeting following the member’s 72nd birthday. The Supervisory Board has resolved a detailed profile of skills and expertise for its composition, which may be consulted on Commerzbank AG’s website. As can be seen from the following qualification matrix based on a self-assessment by members of the Supervisory Board, all objectives set by the Supervisory Board with regard to its composition, as well as its profile of skills and expertise, had been implemented as of 31 December 2024:"
"30 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 I = Basic knowledge1 II = Good knowledge2 III = Expert knowledge3 Classification 🗸 = objective met ER = Employee representation SH = Shareholders Prof. Dr. Jens Weidmann Sabine U. Dietrich Burkhard Keese Dr. Gertrude Tumpel- Gugerell Frank Westhoff Chair SH SH SH SH SH Length of service Member since 2023 2015 2021 2012 2021 Personal suitability Regulatory requirements met 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Experience as a banking executive / member of executive board / management experience 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Independence 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 No overboarding 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Number of other supervisory board mandates4 1 2 1 2 0 Soft skills (authenticity, loyalty, ability to work in a team, sense of responsibility, persuasiveness, communication, discussion, decision-making skills, commitment, ability to work under pressure) 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Diversity Gender m f m f m Nationality DE DE DE AT DE Regional international expertise Germany, Austria, Switzerland 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 International (rest of Europe, America, Asia) 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Year of birth 1968 1960 1966 1952 1961 Skills, experience and professional suitability Banking business III II III III III Financial and capital markets III II III III III Business strategy, planning and transformation in the financial environment III III III III III Regulatory matters / legal framework III II II III III Risk management (incl. ICS and auditing) / controlling II III III III III Compliance (incl. money laundering / terrorist financing) III III III II III Accounting (incl. sustainability reporting and auditing thereof) II II III II III Audit of financial statements (incl. sustainability reporting and auditing thereof) II II III II II Digitalisation, information technology, cyber and data security, and associated risks General II III II I II Bank-specific II III II I III ESG, esp. as part of a) sustainable corporate governance / sustainable banking b) corporate social responsibility (CSR) and c) ESG risks III II III III I Assessing the effectiveness of a bank’s regulations in terms of effective governance / supervision / control III II III III III Personnel management III III III III III Supervisory Board or committee chair Chair SB, PNC, CCC DigiTra AC ESG RiskC Specific knowledge within the committee or in relation to the Bank as a whole 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Experience in drawing up agendas and chairing and preparing meetings 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 1 Basic knowledge: sound basic knowledge in essential parts of the subject area, acquired through e.g. training or practical experience. 2 Good knowledge: extensive knowledge in relation to the entire subject area or specialised knowledge in parts of the subject area, acquired through many years of practical experience. 3 Expert knowledge: expert knowledge in the entire subject area, acquired through a role as a decision-maker. 4 Number of board mandates as at 31 December 2024 to be taken into account for supervisory or regulatory purposes."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 31 27 Declaration on corporate governance pursuant to Sec. 289f and Sec. 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 39 Details pursuant to Sec. 289 and Sec. 315 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) I = Basic knowledge1 II = Good knowledge2 III = Expert knowledge3 Classification 🗸 = objective met ER = Employee representation SH = Shareholders Harald Christ Dr. Frank Czichowski Dr. Jutta A. Dönges Daniela Mattheus Caroline Seifert SH SH SH SH SH Length of service Member since 2023 2020 2020 2021 2021 Personal suitability Regulatory requirements met 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Experience as a banking executive / member of executive board / management experience 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Independence 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 No overboarding 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Number of other supervisory board mandates4 1 3 1 3 0 Soft skills (authenticity, loyalty, ability to work in a team, sense of responsibility, persuasiveness, communication, discussion, decision-making skills, commitment, ability to work under pressure) 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Diversity Gender m m f f f Nationality DE DE DE DE DE Regional international expertise Germany, Austria, Switzerland 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 International (rest of Europe, America, Asia) 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 🗸 Year of birth 1972 1960 1973 1972 1966 Skills, experience and professional suitability Banking business III III III I II Financial and capital markets II III III III II Business strategy, planning and transformation in the financial environment III II III II III Regulatory matters / legal framework II II II III I Risk management (incl. ICS and auditing) / controlling II III III III I Compliance (incl. money laundering / terrorist financing) II II III II II Accounting (incl. sustainability reporting and auditing thereof) II III III III II Audit of financial statements (incl. sustainability reporting and auditing thereof) II II III III II Digitalisation, information technology, cyber and data security, and associated risks General II II III II III Bank-specific I II II II III ESG, esp. as part of a) sustainable corporate governance / sustainable banking b) corporate social responsibility (CSR) and c) ESG risks II III III III II Assessing the effectiveness of a bank’s regulations in terms of effective governance / supervision / control II II III III II Personnel management III III III III III Supervisory Board or committee chair Chair Specific knowledge within the committee or in relation to the Bank as a whole Experience in drawing up agendas and chairing and preparing meetings 1 Basic knowledge: sound basic knowledge in essential parts of the subject area, acquired through e.g. training or practical experience. 2 Good knowledge: extensive knowledge in relation to the entire subject area or specialised knowledge in parts of the subject area, acquired through many years of practical experience. 3 Expert knowledge: expert knowledge in the entire subject area, acquired through a role as a decision-maker. 4 Number of board mandates as at 31 December 2024 to be taken into account for supervisory or regulatory purposes."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 107 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Owned financed emissions in the PCAF asset class “Business loans and unlisted equity”, disaggregated by NACE level 2 NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Agriculture, forestry and fishing A.01 Crop and animal production, hunting and related service activities 594.7 1,446,857.3 2,432.8 332,722.6 559.5 A.02 Forestry and logging 2.4 5,818.1 2,439.5 1,351.2 566.6 A.03 Fishing and aquaculture 2.2 5,030.4 2,249.7 1,168.2 522.5 Mining and quarrying B.05 Mining of coal and lignite 72.0 117,645.0 1,633.5 60,196.5 835.8 B.06 Extraction of crude petroleum and natural gas 530.4 355,261.5 669.9 125,500.7 236.6 B.07 Mining of metal ores 72.3 103,042.2 1,426.1 119,772.2 1,657.6 B.08 Other mining and quarrying 187.5 170,252.8 908.2 88,318.3 471.1 B.09 Mining support service activities 6.2 7,845.8 1,258.6 2,256.7 362.0 Manufacturing C.10 Manufacture of food products 3,024.3 688,916.1 227.8 3,006,510.1 994.1 C.11 Manufacture of beverages 366.6 94,126.1 256.7 325,491.5 887.8 C.12 Manufacture of tobacco products 253.7 9,072.2 35.8 52,261.3 206.0 C.13 Manufacture of textiles 237.4 29,541.0 124.4 87,953.2 370.5 C.14 Manufacture of wearing apparel 260.3 20,300.5 78.0 77,022.4 295.9 C.15 Manufacture of leather and related products 112.8 13,468.9 119.4 41,997.1 372.2 C.16 Manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork, except furniture, manufacture of articles of straw and plaiting materials 768.8 116,579.9 151.6 274,536.7 357.1 C.17 Manufacture of paper and paper products 880.4 132,735.5 150.8 300,628.5 341.5 C.18 Printing and reproduction of recorded media 255.8 34,982.2 136.8 76,205.8 298.0 C.19 Manufacture of coke and refined petroleum products 465.5 381,825.5 820.2 485,281.5 1,042.4 C.20 Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products 2,444.6 1,069,039.8 437.3 1,239,782.3 507.1 C.21 Manufacture of basic pharmaceutical products and pharmaceutical preparations 1,200.6 259,011.5 215.7 371,788.0 309.7 C.22 Manufacture of rubber and plastic products 1,381.5 348,335.1 252.1 710,172.2 514.0 C.23 Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products 917.4 598,270.6 652.1 631,981.2 688.9 C.24 Manufacture of basic metals 1,030.7 836,233.8 811.3 1,377,544.2 1,336.5 C.25 Manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment 2,118.4 461,433.9 217.8 1,145,224.2 540.6 C.26 Manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products 2,535.0 112,181.6 44.3 414,563.1 163.5 C.27 Manufacture of electrical equipment 1,273.7 92,757.7 72.8 1,476,764.1 1,159.5 C.28 Manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c. 3,593.9 191,074.5 53.2 1,854,655.5 516.1 C.29 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers 4,751.0 149,663.0 31.5 1,729,299.3 364.0 C.30 Manufacture of other transport equipment 1,169.7 25,740.6 22.0 629,280.5 538.0 C.31 Manufacture of furniture 218.1 48,920.2 224.3 86,752.2 397.8 C.32 Other manufacturing 1,057.8 45,892.0 43.4 279,012.8 263.8 C.33 Repair and installation of machinery and equipment 45.4 26,109.4 574.7 39,923.9 878.8 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply D.35 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply 3,230.4 3,896,901.9 1,206.3 1,353,602.0 419.0"
"108 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Water supply; sewerage, waste management and remediation activities E.36 Water collection, treatment and supply 145.6 163,688.6 1,124.3 16,598.5 114.0 E.37 Sewerage 224.2 253,713.9 1,131.6 25,179.4 112.3 E.38 Waste collection, treatment and disposal activities, materials recovery 743.2 768,814.3 1,034.4 139,494.3 187.7 E.39 Remediation activities and other waste management services 319.6 341,197.7 1,067.5 45,244.8 141.6 Construction F.41 Construction of buildings 672.1 62,767.6 93.4 326,515.0 485.8 F.42 Civil engineering 422.6 32,821.9 77.7 178,273.4 421.9 F.43 Specialised construction activities 580.9 37,370.3 64.3 216,551.4 372.8 Wholesale and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles G.45 Wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles 1,194.8 154,546.7 129.3 295,063.3 247.0 G.46 Wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles 7,510.5 3,982,382.6 530.2 5,849,105.4 778.8 G.47 Retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles 2,548.1 261,557.6 102.6 552,993.5 217.0 Transportation and storage H.49 Land transport and transport via pipelines 1,007.7 184,864.0 183.4 194,409.2 192.9 H.50 Water transport 268.8 37,227.0 138.5 31,127.6 115.8 H.51 Air transport 1,570.6 791,063.4 503.7 799,372.7 509.0 H.52 Warehousing and support activities for transportation 1,890.3 223,610.6 118.3 320,221.4 169.4 H.53 Postal and courier activities 229.2 33,723.4 147.2 33,867.2 147.8 Accommodation and food service activities I.55 Accommodation 336.5 9,319.1 27.7 73,234.1 217.6 I.56 Food and beverage service activities 108.7 8,237.1 75.8 18,352.7 168.9 Information and communication J.58 Publishing activities 694.7 18,668.8 26.9 28,591.9 41.2 J.59 Motion picture, video and television programme production, sound recording and music publishing activities 294.8 13,317.7 45.2 17,946.5 60.9 J.60 Programming and broadcasting activities 242.6 4,883.9 20.1 4,972.2 20.5 J.61 Telecommunications 1,788.0 79,856.2 44.7 98,837.5 55.3 J.62 Computer programming, consultancy and related activities 1,016.5 55,902.3 55.0 139,908.7 137.6 J.63 Information service activities 388.7 15,378.4 39.6 39,251.6 101.0 Financial and insurance activities K.64 Financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding 13,888.3 48,585.6 3.5 177,813.2 12.8 K.65 Insurance, reinsurance and pension funding, except compulsory social security 42.0 28.3 0.7 163.1 3.9 K.66 Activities auxiliary to financial services and insurance activities 547.3 2,777.6 5.1 6,659.5 12.2 Real estate activities L.68 Real estate activities 3,169.8 127,162.3 40.1 617,723.1 194.9 Professional, scientific and technical activities M.69 Legal and accounting activities 126.5 7,991.9 63.2 12,757.0 100.9 M.70 Activities of head offices, management consultancy activities 2,586.6 146,127.4 56.5 319,357.6 123.5 M.71 Architectural and engineering activities, technical testing and analysis 318.1 62,746.5 197.3 96,459.6 303.3 M.72 Scientific research and development 22.8 2,456.9 107.9 4,925.5 216.2 M.73 Advertising and market research 169.4 16,825.9 99.3 25,823.9 152.4 M.74 Other professional, scientific and technical activities 502.0 23,827.7 47.5 40,297.6 80.3 M.75 Veterinary activities 79.6 2,770.8 34.8 12,674.2 159.1 N.77 Rental and leasing activities 1,352.2 61,378.2 45.4 201,248.6 148.8 N.78 Employment activities 347.7 46,708.8 134.3 77,248.5 222.2"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 109 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Administrative and support service activities N.79 Travel agency, tour operator and other reservation service and related activities 259.0 23,184.3 89.5 35,134.8 135.7 N.80 Security and investigation activities 100.1 28,606.6 285.8 55,051.0 550.0 N.81 Services to buildings and landscape activities 67.6 14,289.3 211.4 22,528.9 333.3 N.82 Office administrative, office support and other business support activities 386.0 30,543.8 79.1 47,449.5 122.9 Public administration and defence; compulsory social security O.84 Public administration and defence, compulsory social security 31.4 1,581.7 50.4 2,207.7 70.4 Education P.85 Education 81.1 4,959.1 61.1 8,915.8 109.9 Human health and social work activities Q.86 Human health activities 661.0 34,624.7 52.4 95,709.6 144.8 Q.87 Residential care activities 85.9 3,222.9 37.5 14,989.5 174.5 Q.88 Social work activities without accommodation 28.4 811.8 28.6 5,100.9 179.5 Arts, entertainment and recreation R.90 Creative, arts and entertainment activities 107.4 9,593.2 89.3 14,605.4 135.9 R.91 Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural activities 3.8 227.7 60.4 323.4 85.8 R.92 Gambling and betting activities 201.7 7,851.3 38.9 11,620.1 57.6 R.93 Sports activities and amusement and recreation activities 167.0 8,994.9 53.9 16,139.3 96.7 Other services activities S.94 Activities of membership organisations 150.3 10,157.2 67.6 13,926.5 92.6 S.95 Repair of computers and personal and household goods 0.2 56.2 276.5 300.6 1,479.1 S.96 Other personal service activities 446.6 26,766.7 59.9 41,472.1 92.9 Activities of households as employers; undifferentiated goods and services-producing activities of households for own-use T.97 Activities of households as employers of domestic personnel 0.2 223.5 1,291.3 101.2 584.6 T.98 Undifferentiated goods- and services- producing activities of private households for own use 0.0 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies U.99 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies 0.0 - - - -"
"110 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 [E1-7] GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits GHG removal and storage Climate change mitigation is an important aspect of our corporate responsibility. We continuously strive to further reduce our ecolog- ical footprint. We follow the principle of “Avoid and reduce before offsetting”. We offset unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions from our banking operations as well as selected Scope 3 emissions from Commerzbank AG by purchasing and cancelling high-quality car- bon credits. In the current reporting period, we offset a total of 96,934 tones of CO2eq through the purchase and cancellation of carbon credits outside the value chain. Of this, 25% is accounted for by the “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project in Pakistan, which uses nature-based methods to reduce carbon emissions through mangrove reforesta- tion. The remaining 75% comes from projects to avoid carbon emissions, including the “Nouakchott 30 MW Wind Power Plant” (wind energy in Mauritania) and the “CTL Landfill Gas Project” (biogas in Brazil). All projects mentioned meet the recognised qual- ity standards of the Verra Verified Carbon Standard or the Gold Standard. The “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project can also provide so- called Corresponding Adjustments. Detailed information on the individual projects can be found on our homepage on carbon off- setting for banking operations. Offsetting is based on our annually recorded and externally ver- ified Commerzbank AG greenhouse gas emissions. In the 2024 re- porting year we offset both current emissions and parts of emissions from 2023. Offsetting strategy All projects meet the highest quality standards. The integrity of emission reduction projects and the carbon credits generated from them is crucial to achieve effective carbon offsetting. We therefore act according to our principles for compensating unavoidable car- bon emissions when selecting projects. These principles relate to the quality of the credits, the technologies used and the countries where the projects are located. Offsetting is implemented exclu- sively through projects with generally recognised quality standards such as the Verra Verified Carbon Standard, Gold Standard or Plan Vivo. When selecting projects, we also follow the Core Carbon Prin- ciples (CCP) framework, which outlines a comprehensive approach to ensuring quality and integrity in the voluntary carbon market. The focus of the projects we select is on countries in the global South, as these are often the ones most affected by the conse- quences of climate change. We do not remove or store any greenhouse gases in our own operations or in the upstream and downstream value chain. Information on the reduction and storage of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon credits in tCO2eq tCO2eq 2024 GHG removals and storage in own operations and in the upstream and downstream value chain - GHG emission reductions or removals from climate change mitigation projects outside the value chain1 96,934 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year. Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year 2024 Total in tCO2eq1 96,934 Share from reduction projects (in %) 75.3 Share from removal projects (in %) 24.7 Share of recognised quality standard ""Gold Standard"" (in %) 31.0 Share of recognised quality standard ""Verra Verified Carbon Standard"" (in %) 69.1 Share from projects within the EU (in %) 0.0 Share that qualify as corresponding adjustments (in %) 24.7 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 111 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in future tCO2eq Amount until 2030 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the reporting period 0 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future 1,066 [E4-1] Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model Commerzbank wants to play an active role in protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. We have developed a wide range of activities, measures and objectives for this purpose, which we describe in de- tail in ESRS E4-2 to E4-6. At the present time, however, Com- merzbank does not have a comprehensive transition plan on this topic, since this was identified as immaterial for us during the ma- teriality assessment. In addition, the methodological basis and data availability needed to draw up such a transition plan currently fall short of requirements. Commerzbank is actively working to solve these challenges. Further information can be found in ESRS E4-2 to E4-6. Biodiversity risks, like climate risks, are regularly included in the business and sustainability strategy. As part of its annual strategy process, Commerzbank analyses various key indicators and envi- ronmental factors that are relevant to the Bank’s strategy and busi- ness model. This analysis includes both internal perspectives (including employees) and external perspectives (including custom- ers and investors). The results and conclusions from the holistic analysis are used in the downstream strategy process to develop the strategy and business model. Commerzbank also conducts an annual assessment of the mate- riality of biodiversity risks, including their impact on business risks. The results of this analysis are used to help develop the business strategy, the business risk strategy and the various sub-risk strate- gies. For further information on how we incorporate biodiversity into our strategy and business model, please see ESRS E4 SBM-3. [E4-2] Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems Almost all global economic activities depend on biodiversity and ecosystem services. A look at the current state of biodiversity makes it clear that the time for action is now. Dependency and impacts on biodiversity can lead to physical and transition risks – but they can also create opportunities. For this rea- son, the topic of biodiversity is also of strategic importance for Com- merzbank AG. Concepts in Commerzbank’s banking business Commerzbank AG has already adopted specific positions and exclu- sion criteria geared to protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. Im- portant aspects include land use change, pollution and the use of water and marine resources. A major problem concerning land use change is deforestation. To minimise deforestation risks in Commerzbank AG’s portfolio, we have formulated our own position on the topic of deforestation. For more information on this strategy, see ESRS E4-3 and E4-4. Furthermore, in its position on mining, Commerzbank AG ex- cludes the financing of mining projects that use mountain top re- moval (MTR) due to the damage this does to the surrounding area, as well as the financing of companies that mine coal using this method. This mining technique is extremely harmful to the environ- ment and results in significant land use changes. Ecological factors as well as reports of adverse impacts on high conservation value areas and UNESCO World Heritage Sites, for ex- ample in the energy and fossil fuel sectors, are also included in a case-by-case assessment. Taking these factors into account should help to preserve important ecological and cultural regions and mit- igate changes in these areas."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 107 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Owned financed emissions in the PCAF asset class “Business loans and unlisted equity”, disaggregated by NACE level 2 NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Agriculture, forestry and fishing A.01 Crop and animal production, hunting and related service activities 594.7 1,446,857.3 2,432.8 332,722.6 559.5 A.02 Forestry and logging 2.4 5,818.1 2,439.5 1,351.2 566.6 A.03 Fishing and aquaculture 2.2 5,030.4 2,249.7 1,168.2 522.5 Mining and quarrying B.05 Mining of coal and lignite 72.0 117,645.0 1,633.5 60,196.5 835.8 B.06 Extraction of crude petroleum and natural gas 530.4 355,261.5 669.9 125,500.7 236.6 B.07 Mining of metal ores 72.3 103,042.2 1,426.1 119,772.2 1,657.6 B.08 Other mining and quarrying 187.5 170,252.8 908.2 88,318.3 471.1 B.09 Mining support service activities 6.2 7,845.8 1,258.6 2,256.7 362.0 Manufacturing C.10 Manufacture of food products 3,024.3 688,916.1 227.8 3,006,510.1 994.1 C.11 Manufacture of beverages 366.6 94,126.1 256.7 325,491.5 887.8 C.12 Manufacture of tobacco products 253.7 9,072.2 35.8 52,261.3 206.0 C.13 Manufacture of textiles 237.4 29,541.0 124.4 87,953.2 370.5 C.14 Manufacture of wearing apparel 260.3 20,300.5 78.0 77,022.4 295.9 C.15 Manufacture of leather and related products 112.8 13,468.9 119.4 41,997.1 372.2 C.16 Manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork, except furniture, manufacture of articles of straw and plaiting materials 768.8 116,579.9 151.6 274,536.7 357.1 C.17 Manufacture of paper and paper products 880.4 132,735.5 150.8 300,628.5 341.5 C.18 Printing and reproduction of recorded media 255.8 34,982.2 136.8 76,205.8 298.0 C.19 Manufacture of coke and refined petroleum products 465.5 381,825.5 820.2 485,281.5 1,042.4 C.20 Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products 2,444.6 1,069,039.8 437.3 1,239,782.3 507.1 C.21 Manufacture of basic pharmaceutical products and pharmaceutical preparations 1,200.6 259,011.5 215.7 371,788.0 309.7 C.22 Manufacture of rubber and plastic products 1,381.5 348,335.1 252.1 710,172.2 514.0 C.23 Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products 917.4 598,270.6 652.1 631,981.2 688.9 C.24 Manufacture of basic metals 1,030.7 836,233.8 811.3 1,377,544.2 1,336.5 C.25 Manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment 2,118.4 461,433.9 217.8 1,145,224.2 540.6 C.26 Manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products 2,535.0 112,181.6 44.3 414,563.1 163.5 C.27 Manufacture of electrical equipment 1,273.7 92,757.7 72.8 1,476,764.1 1,159.5 C.28 Manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c. 3,593.9 191,074.5 53.2 1,854,655.5 516.1 C.29 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers 4,751.0 149,663.0 31.5 1,729,299.3 364.0 C.30 Manufacture of other transport equipment 1,169.7 25,740.6 22.0 629,280.5 538.0 C.31 Manufacture of furniture 218.1 48,920.2 224.3 86,752.2 397.8 C.32 Other manufacturing 1,057.8 45,892.0 43.4 279,012.8 263.8 C.33 Repair and installation of machinery and equipment 45.4 26,109.4 574.7 39,923.9 878.8 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply D.35 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply 3,230.4 3,896,901.9 1,206.3 1,353,602.0 419.0"
"108 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Water supply; sewerage, waste management and remediation activities E.36 Water collection, treatment and supply 145.6 163,688.6 1,124.3 16,598.5 114.0 E.37 Sewerage 224.2 253,713.9 1,131.6 25,179.4 112.3 E.38 Waste collection, treatment and disposal activities, materials recovery 743.2 768,814.3 1,034.4 139,494.3 187.7 E.39 Remediation activities and other waste management services 319.6 341,197.7 1,067.5 45,244.8 141.6 Construction F.41 Construction of buildings 672.1 62,767.6 93.4 326,515.0 485.8 F.42 Civil engineering 422.6 32,821.9 77.7 178,273.4 421.9 F.43 Specialised construction activities 580.9 37,370.3 64.3 216,551.4 372.8 Wholesale and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles G.45 Wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles 1,194.8 154,546.7 129.3 295,063.3 247.0 G.46 Wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles 7,510.5 3,982,382.6 530.2 5,849,105.4 778.8 G.47 Retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles 2,548.1 261,557.6 102.6 552,993.5 217.0 Transportation and storage H.49 Land transport and transport via pipelines 1,007.7 184,864.0 183.4 194,409.2 192.9 H.50 Water transport 268.8 37,227.0 138.5 31,127.6 115.8 H.51 Air transport 1,570.6 791,063.4 503.7 799,372.7 509.0 H.52 Warehousing and support activities for transportation 1,890.3 223,610.6 118.3 320,221.4 169.4 H.53 Postal and courier activities 229.2 33,723.4 147.2 33,867.2 147.8 Accommodation and food service activities I.55 Accommodation 336.5 9,319.1 27.7 73,234.1 217.6 I.56 Food and beverage service activities 108.7 8,237.1 75.8 18,352.7 168.9 Information and communication J.58 Publishing activities 694.7 18,668.8 26.9 28,591.9 41.2 J.59 Motion picture, video and television programme production, sound recording and music publishing activities 294.8 13,317.7 45.2 17,946.5 60.9 J.60 Programming and broadcasting activities 242.6 4,883.9 20.1 4,972.2 20.5 J.61 Telecommunications 1,788.0 79,856.2 44.7 98,837.5 55.3 J.62 Computer programming, consultancy and related activities 1,016.5 55,902.3 55.0 139,908.7 137.6 J.63 Information service activities 388.7 15,378.4 39.6 39,251.6 101.0 Financial and insurance activities K.64 Financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding 13,888.3 48,585.6 3.5 177,813.2 12.8 K.65 Insurance, reinsurance and pension funding, except compulsory social security 42.0 28.3 0.7 163.1 3.9 K.66 Activities auxiliary to financial services and insurance activities 547.3 2,777.6 5.1 6,659.5 12.2 Real estate activities L.68 Real estate activities 3,169.8 127,162.3 40.1 617,723.1 194.9 Professional, scientific and technical activities M.69 Legal and accounting activities 126.5 7,991.9 63.2 12,757.0 100.9 M.70 Activities of head offices, management consultancy activities 2,586.6 146,127.4 56.5 319,357.6 123.5 M.71 Architectural and engineering activities, technical testing and analysis 318.1 62,746.5 197.3 96,459.6 303.3 M.72 Scientific research and development 22.8 2,456.9 107.9 4,925.5 216.2 M.73 Advertising and market research 169.4 16,825.9 99.3 25,823.9 152.4 M.74 Other professional, scientific and technical activities 502.0 23,827.7 47.5 40,297.6 80.3 M.75 Veterinary activities 79.6 2,770.8 34.8 12,674.2 159.1 N.77 Rental and leasing activities 1,352.2 61,378.2 45.4 201,248.6 148.8 N.78 Employment activities 347.7 46,708.8 134.3 77,248.5 222.2"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 109 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Administrative and support service activities N.79 Travel agency, tour operator and other reservation service and related activities 259.0 23,184.3 89.5 35,134.8 135.7 N.80 Security and investigation activities 100.1 28,606.6 285.8 55,051.0 550.0 N.81 Services to buildings and landscape activities 67.6 14,289.3 211.4 22,528.9 333.3 N.82 Office administrative, office support and other business support activities 386.0 30,543.8 79.1 47,449.5 122.9 Public administration and defence; compulsory social security O.84 Public administration and defence, compulsory social security 31.4 1,581.7 50.4 2,207.7 70.4 Education P.85 Education 81.1 4,959.1 61.1 8,915.8 109.9 Human health and social work activities Q.86 Human health activities 661.0 34,624.7 52.4 95,709.6 144.8 Q.87 Residential care activities 85.9 3,222.9 37.5 14,989.5 174.5 Q.88 Social work activities without accommodation 28.4 811.8 28.6 5,100.9 179.5 Arts, entertainment and recreation R.90 Creative, arts and entertainment activities 107.4 9,593.2 89.3 14,605.4 135.9 R.91 Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural activities 3.8 227.7 60.4 323.4 85.8 R.92 Gambling and betting activities 201.7 7,851.3 38.9 11,620.1 57.6 R.93 Sports activities and amusement and recreation activities 167.0 8,994.9 53.9 16,139.3 96.7 Other services activities S.94 Activities of membership organisations 150.3 10,157.2 67.6 13,926.5 92.6 S.95 Repair of computers and personal and household goods 0.2 56.2 276.5 300.6 1,479.1 S.96 Other personal service activities 446.6 26,766.7 59.9 41,472.1 92.9 Activities of households as employers; undifferentiated goods and services-producing activities of households for own-use T.97 Activities of households as employers of domestic personnel 0.2 223.5 1,291.3 101.2 584.6 T.98 Undifferentiated goods- and services- producing activities of private households for own use 0.0 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies U.99 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies 0.0 - - - -"
"110 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 [E1-7] GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits GHG removal and storage Climate change mitigation is an important aspect of our corporate responsibility. We continuously strive to further reduce our ecolog- ical footprint. We follow the principle of “Avoid and reduce before offsetting”. We offset unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions from our banking operations as well as selected Scope 3 emissions from Commerzbank AG by purchasing and cancelling high-quality car- bon credits. In the current reporting period, we offset a total of 96,934 tones of CO2eq through the purchase and cancellation of carbon credits outside the value chain. Of this, 25% is accounted for by the “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project in Pakistan, which uses nature-based methods to reduce carbon emissions through mangrove reforesta- tion. The remaining 75% comes from projects to avoid carbon emissions, including the “Nouakchott 30 MW Wind Power Plant” (wind energy in Mauritania) and the “CTL Landfill Gas Project” (biogas in Brazil). All projects mentioned meet the recognised qual- ity standards of the Verra Verified Carbon Standard or the Gold Standard. The “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project can also provide so- called Corresponding Adjustments. Detailed information on the individual projects can be found on our homepage on carbon off- setting for banking operations. Offsetting is based on our annually recorded and externally ver- ified Commerzbank AG greenhouse gas emissions. In the 2024 re- porting year we offset both current emissions and parts of emissions from 2023. Offsetting strategy All projects meet the highest quality standards. The integrity of emission reduction projects and the carbon credits generated from them is crucial to achieve effective carbon offsetting. We therefore act according to our principles for compensating unavoidable car- bon emissions when selecting projects. These principles relate to the quality of the credits, the technologies used and the countries where the projects are located. Offsetting is implemented exclu- sively through projects with generally recognised quality standards such as the Verra Verified Carbon Standard, Gold Standard or Plan Vivo. When selecting projects, we also follow the Core Carbon Prin- ciples (CCP) framework, which outlines a comprehensive approach to ensuring quality and integrity in the voluntary carbon market. The focus of the projects we select is on countries in the global South, as these are often the ones most affected by the conse- quences of climate change. We do not remove or store any greenhouse gases in our own operations or in the upstream and downstream value chain. Information on the reduction and storage of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon credits in tCO2eq tCO2eq 2024 GHG removals and storage in own operations and in the upstream and downstream value chain - GHG emission reductions or removals from climate change mitigation projects outside the value chain1 96,934 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year. Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year 2024 Total in tCO2eq1 96,934 Share from reduction projects (in %) 75.3 Share from removal projects (in %) 24.7 Share of recognised quality standard ""Gold Standard"" (in %) 31.0 Share of recognised quality standard ""Verra Verified Carbon Standard"" (in %) 69.1 Share from projects within the EU (in %) 0.0 Share that qualify as corresponding adjustments (in %) 24.7 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 111 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in future tCO2eq Amount until 2030 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the reporting period 0 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future 1,066 [E4-1] Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model Commerzbank wants to play an active role in protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. We have developed a wide range of activities, measures and objectives for this purpose, which we describe in de- tail in ESRS E4-2 to E4-6. At the present time, however, Com- merzbank does not have a comprehensive transition plan on this topic, since this was identified as immaterial for us during the ma- teriality assessment. In addition, the methodological basis and data availability needed to draw up such a transition plan currently fall short of requirements. Commerzbank is actively working to solve these challenges. Further information can be found in ESRS E4-2 to E4-6. Biodiversity risks, like climate risks, are regularly included in the business and sustainability strategy. As part of its annual strategy process, Commerzbank analyses various key indicators and envi- ronmental factors that are relevant to the Bank’s strategy and busi- ness model. This analysis includes both internal perspectives (including employees) and external perspectives (including custom- ers and investors). The results and conclusions from the holistic analysis are used in the downstream strategy process to develop the strategy and business model. Commerzbank also conducts an annual assessment of the mate- riality of biodiversity risks, including their impact on business risks. The results of this analysis are used to help develop the business strategy, the business risk strategy and the various sub-risk strate- gies. For further information on how we incorporate biodiversity into our strategy and business model, please see ESRS E4 SBM-3. [E4-2] Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems Almost all global economic activities depend on biodiversity and ecosystem services. A look at the current state of biodiversity makes it clear that the time for action is now. Dependency and impacts on biodiversity can lead to physical and transition risks – but they can also create opportunities. For this rea- son, the topic of biodiversity is also of strategic importance for Com- merzbank AG. Concepts in Commerzbank’s banking business Commerzbank AG has already adopted specific positions and exclu- sion criteria geared to protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. Im- portant aspects include land use change, pollution and the use of water and marine resources. A major problem concerning land use change is deforestation. To minimise deforestation risks in Commerzbank AG’s portfolio, we have formulated our own position on the topic of deforestation. For more information on this strategy, see ESRS E4-3 and E4-4. Furthermore, in its position on mining, Commerzbank AG ex- cludes the financing of mining projects that use mountain top re- moval (MTR) due to the damage this does to the surrounding area, as well as the financing of companies that mine coal using this method. This mining technique is extremely harmful to the environ- ment and results in significant land use changes. Ecological factors as well as reports of adverse impacts on high conservation value areas and UNESCO World Heritage Sites, for ex- ample in the energy and fossil fuel sectors, are also included in a case-by-case assessment. Taking these factors into account should help to preserve important ecological and cultural regions and mit- igate changes in these areas."
"108 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Water supply; sewerage, waste management and remediation activities E.36 Water collection, treatment and supply 145.6 163,688.6 1,124.3 16,598.5 114.0 E.37 Sewerage 224.2 253,713.9 1,131.6 25,179.4 112.3 E.38 Waste collection, treatment and disposal activities, materials recovery 743.2 768,814.3 1,034.4 139,494.3 187.7 E.39 Remediation activities and other waste management services 319.6 341,197.7 1,067.5 45,244.8 141.6 Construction F.41 Construction of buildings 672.1 62,767.6 93.4 326,515.0 485.8 F.42 Civil engineering 422.6 32,821.9 77.7 178,273.4 421.9 F.43 Specialised construction activities 580.9 37,370.3 64.3 216,551.4 372.8 Wholesale and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles G.45 Wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles 1,194.8 154,546.7 129.3 295,063.3 247.0 G.46 Wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles 7,510.5 3,982,382.6 530.2 5,849,105.4 778.8 G.47 Retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles 2,548.1 261,557.6 102.6 552,993.5 217.0 Transportation and storage H.49 Land transport and transport via pipelines 1,007.7 184,864.0 183.4 194,409.2 192.9 H.50 Water transport 268.8 37,227.0 138.5 31,127.6 115.8 H.51 Air transport 1,570.6 791,063.4 503.7 799,372.7 509.0 H.52 Warehousing and support activities for transportation 1,890.3 223,610.6 118.3 320,221.4 169.4 H.53 Postal and courier activities 229.2 33,723.4 147.2 33,867.2 147.8 Accommodation and food service activities I.55 Accommodation 336.5 9,319.1 27.7 73,234.1 217.6 I.56 Food and beverage service activities 108.7 8,237.1 75.8 18,352.7 168.9 Information and communication J.58 Publishing activities 694.7 18,668.8 26.9 28,591.9 41.2 J.59 Motion picture, video and television programme production, sound recording and music publishing activities 294.8 13,317.7 45.2 17,946.5 60.9 J.60 Programming and broadcasting activities 242.6 4,883.9 20.1 4,972.2 20.5 J.61 Telecommunications 1,788.0 79,856.2 44.7 98,837.5 55.3 J.62 Computer programming, consultancy and related activities 1,016.5 55,902.3 55.0 139,908.7 137.6 J.63 Information service activities 388.7 15,378.4 39.6 39,251.6 101.0 Financial and insurance activities K.64 Financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding 13,888.3 48,585.6 3.5 177,813.2 12.8 K.65 Insurance, reinsurance and pension funding, except compulsory social security 42.0 28.3 0.7 163.1 3.9 K.66 Activities auxiliary to financial services and insurance activities 547.3 2,777.6 5.1 6,659.5 12.2 Real estate activities L.68 Real estate activities 3,169.8 127,162.3 40.1 617,723.1 194.9 Professional, scientific and technical activities M.69 Legal and accounting activities 126.5 7,991.9 63.2 12,757.0 100.9 M.70 Activities of head offices, management consultancy activities 2,586.6 146,127.4 56.5 319,357.6 123.5 M.71 Architectural and engineering activities, technical testing and analysis 318.1 62,746.5 197.3 96,459.6 303.3 M.72 Scientific research and development 22.8 2,456.9 107.9 4,925.5 216.2 M.73 Advertising and market research 169.4 16,825.9 99.3 25,823.9 152.4 M.74 Other professional, scientific and technical activities 502.0 23,827.7 47.5 40,297.6 80.3 M.75 Veterinary activities 79.6 2,770.8 34.8 12,674.2 159.1 N.77 Rental and leasing activities 1,352.2 61,378.2 45.4 201,248.6 148.8 N.78 Employment activities 347.7 46,708.8 134.3 77,248.5 222.2"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 109 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Administrative and support service activities N.79 Travel agency, tour operator and other reservation service and related activities 259.0 23,184.3 89.5 35,134.8 135.7 N.80 Security and investigation activities 100.1 28,606.6 285.8 55,051.0 550.0 N.81 Services to buildings and landscape activities 67.6 14,289.3 211.4 22,528.9 333.3 N.82 Office administrative, office support and other business support activities 386.0 30,543.8 79.1 47,449.5 122.9 Public administration and defence; compulsory social security O.84 Public administration and defence, compulsory social security 31.4 1,581.7 50.4 2,207.7 70.4 Education P.85 Education 81.1 4,959.1 61.1 8,915.8 109.9 Human health and social work activities Q.86 Human health activities 661.0 34,624.7 52.4 95,709.6 144.8 Q.87 Residential care activities 85.9 3,222.9 37.5 14,989.5 174.5 Q.88 Social work activities without accommodation 28.4 811.8 28.6 5,100.9 179.5 Arts, entertainment and recreation R.90 Creative, arts and entertainment activities 107.4 9,593.2 89.3 14,605.4 135.9 R.91 Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural activities 3.8 227.7 60.4 323.4 85.8 R.92 Gambling and betting activities 201.7 7,851.3 38.9 11,620.1 57.6 R.93 Sports activities and amusement and recreation activities 167.0 8,994.9 53.9 16,139.3 96.7 Other services activities S.94 Activities of membership organisations 150.3 10,157.2 67.6 13,926.5 92.6 S.95 Repair of computers and personal and household goods 0.2 56.2 276.5 300.6 1,479.1 S.96 Other personal service activities 446.6 26,766.7 59.9 41,472.1 92.9 Activities of households as employers; undifferentiated goods and services-producing activities of households for own-use T.97 Activities of households as employers of domestic personnel 0.2 223.5 1,291.3 101.2 584.6 T.98 Undifferentiated goods- and services- producing activities of private households for own use 0.0 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies U.99 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies 0.0 - - - -"
"110 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 [E1-7] GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits GHG removal and storage Climate change mitigation is an important aspect of our corporate responsibility. We continuously strive to further reduce our ecolog- ical footprint. We follow the principle of “Avoid and reduce before offsetting”. We offset unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions from our banking operations as well as selected Scope 3 emissions from Commerzbank AG by purchasing and cancelling high-quality car- bon credits. In the current reporting period, we offset a total of 96,934 tones of CO2eq through the purchase and cancellation of carbon credits outside the value chain. Of this, 25% is accounted for by the “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project in Pakistan, which uses nature-based methods to reduce carbon emissions through mangrove reforesta- tion. The remaining 75% comes from projects to avoid carbon emissions, including the “Nouakchott 30 MW Wind Power Plant” (wind energy in Mauritania) and the “CTL Landfill Gas Project” (biogas in Brazil). All projects mentioned meet the recognised qual- ity standards of the Verra Verified Carbon Standard or the Gold Standard. The “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project can also provide so- called Corresponding Adjustments. Detailed information on the individual projects can be found on our homepage on carbon off- setting for banking operations. Offsetting is based on our annually recorded and externally ver- ified Commerzbank AG greenhouse gas emissions. In the 2024 re- porting year we offset both current emissions and parts of emissions from 2023. Offsetting strategy All projects meet the highest quality standards. The integrity of emission reduction projects and the carbon credits generated from them is crucial to achieve effective carbon offsetting. We therefore act according to our principles for compensating unavoidable car- bon emissions when selecting projects. These principles relate to the quality of the credits, the technologies used and the countries where the projects are located. Offsetting is implemented exclu- sively through projects with generally recognised quality standards such as the Verra Verified Carbon Standard, Gold Standard or Plan Vivo. When selecting projects, we also follow the Core Carbon Prin- ciples (CCP) framework, which outlines a comprehensive approach to ensuring quality and integrity in the voluntary carbon market. The focus of the projects we select is on countries in the global South, as these are often the ones most affected by the conse- quences of climate change. We do not remove or store any greenhouse gases in our own operations or in the upstream and downstream value chain. Information on the reduction and storage of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon credits in tCO2eq tCO2eq 2024 GHG removals and storage in own operations and in the upstream and downstream value chain - GHG emission reductions or removals from climate change mitigation projects outside the value chain1 96,934 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year. Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year 2024 Total in tCO2eq1 96,934 Share from reduction projects (in %) 75.3 Share from removal projects (in %) 24.7 Share of recognised quality standard ""Gold Standard"" (in %) 31.0 Share of recognised quality standard ""Verra Verified Carbon Standard"" (in %) 69.1 Share from projects within the EU (in %) 0.0 Share that qualify as corresponding adjustments (in %) 24.7 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 111 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in future tCO2eq Amount until 2030 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the reporting period 0 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future 1,066 [E4-1] Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model Commerzbank wants to play an active role in protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. We have developed a wide range of activities, measures and objectives for this purpose, which we describe in de- tail in ESRS E4-2 to E4-6. At the present time, however, Com- merzbank does not have a comprehensive transition plan on this topic, since this was identified as immaterial for us during the ma- teriality assessment. In addition, the methodological basis and data availability needed to draw up such a transition plan currently fall short of requirements. Commerzbank is actively working to solve these challenges. Further information can be found in ESRS E4-2 to E4-6. Biodiversity risks, like climate risks, are regularly included in the business and sustainability strategy. As part of its annual strategy process, Commerzbank analyses various key indicators and envi- ronmental factors that are relevant to the Bank’s strategy and busi- ness model. This analysis includes both internal perspectives (including employees) and external perspectives (including custom- ers and investors). The results and conclusions from the holistic analysis are used in the downstream strategy process to develop the strategy and business model. Commerzbank also conducts an annual assessment of the mate- riality of biodiversity risks, including their impact on business risks. The results of this analysis are used to help develop the business strategy, the business risk strategy and the various sub-risk strate- gies. For further information on how we incorporate biodiversity into our strategy and business model, please see ESRS E4 SBM-3. [E4-2] Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems Almost all global economic activities depend on biodiversity and ecosystem services. A look at the current state of biodiversity makes it clear that the time for action is now. Dependency and impacts on biodiversity can lead to physical and transition risks – but they can also create opportunities. For this rea- son, the topic of biodiversity is also of strategic importance for Com- merzbank AG. Concepts in Commerzbank’s banking business Commerzbank AG has already adopted specific positions and exclu- sion criteria geared to protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. Im- portant aspects include land use change, pollution and the use of water and marine resources. A major problem concerning land use change is deforestation. To minimise deforestation risks in Commerzbank AG’s portfolio, we have formulated our own position on the topic of deforestation. For more information on this strategy, see ESRS E4-3 and E4-4. Furthermore, in its position on mining, Commerzbank AG ex- cludes the financing of mining projects that use mountain top re- moval (MTR) due to the damage this does to the surrounding area, as well as the financing of companies that mine coal using this method. This mining technique is extremely harmful to the environ- ment and results in significant land use changes. Ecological factors as well as reports of adverse impacts on high conservation value areas and UNESCO World Heritage Sites, for ex- ample in the energy and fossil fuel sectors, are also included in a case-by-case assessment. Taking these factors into account should help to preserve important ecological and cultural regions and mit- igate changes in these areas."
"112 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 With regard to the impacts of pollution on protecting biodiversity and ecosystems, Commerzbank AG also takes a critical view of is- sues such as water and groundwater contamination. The petro- chemical sector is often closely linked with the topic of pollution, particularly water and groundwater contamination. Commerzbank AG therefore subjects business relationships with petrochemical companies and petrochemical projects to a differentiated case-by- case assessment, which can potentially lead to a business relation- ship or project being terminated or denied. Commerzbank AG also takes the topic of water into account within the context of its asset management. Direct investments are excluded in companies where serious compliance violations have been identified with the principles of the UN Global Compact. These comprise, among others, minimum environmental standards with regard to impacts on the sustainable use and conservation of water and marine resources. Investments may be authorised in individual cases if Commerzbank analyses have identified a positive outlook for the company’s development moving forward. On the other hand, the financing that Commerzbank AG provides can also have a positive impact on protecting biodiversity and eco- systems. We classify the financing of nature-related activities as sustainable financing within the meaning of our ESG framework. Our sustainable product solutions include financing sustainable crop cultivation, sustainable forestry, conservation of natural areas and soil remediation. Such financing contributes directly to sustain- able land use. At Commerz Real, compliance with the exclusion criteria of Commerzbank AG in the fund business, for equity investments, in the mandate business and for equipment leasing is already ensured through the business models and through the restrictions imposed on specific asset classes. Concepts in the context of risk management Commerzbank’s overall risk strategy sets out the Bank’s strategic framework and, together with the Bank’s sub-risk strategies, forms the basis for the risk strategies of its subsidiaries. Based on the risk inventory, the overall risk strategy defines biodiversity risks as a horizontal risk driver, meaning that biodiversity risks can have an impact on existing risk types. The strategy also specifies how biodiversity risks should be inte- grated in the risk inventory. The overall risk strategy undergoes a comprehensive review in the second half of each year, before being submitted to the Strategic Risk Committee for a vote and subse- quently to the Board of Managing Directors for approval. The over- all risk strategy is then discussed by the Risk Committee of the Supervisory Board and brought to the attention of the Supervisory Board. The ESG Risk Assessment Concept defines the framework for assessing ESG risks for Commerzbank Group, including biodiver- sity risks, and forms part of Commerzbank Group’s stress testing framework. The document specifies the processes, methodological requirements, definitions and result parameters for the risk analysis and is updated annually. The overall document is approved by the Board of Managing Directors. mBank policies mBank has adopted a position on dealing with reputational risk- sensitive industries, which includes the protection of high conser- vation value areas, UNESCO World Heritage Sites and other pro- tected areas. This position limits the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem services and reduces possible land use changes in these areas. mBank takes due account of environmental risks and oppor- tunities in its lending policy, which sets out requirements that must be met by corporate clients from sectors or economic activities with a high environmental risk as part of the risk assessment process. The directive also includes criteria for sustainability-related financ- ing and defines a classification framework for sustainable loans. mBank does not yet take product traceability into account and has not formulated any explicit positions on the sustainable use of oceans or combating deforestation. [E4-3] Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems Commerzbank AG implements a wide range of measures to protect biodiversity and ecosystems. It has committed itself to the require- ments of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), and since 2023 has been guided by the standards and re- quirements outlined in the TNFD in an ongoing effort to comply with these more completely and comprehensively. In addition, Commerzbank AG is an active member of the Biodi- versity in Good Company initiative (BiGCI), as part of which it works together with like-minded companies from the real economy to ad- vocate for the protection and sustainable use of biological diversity, nurturing a productive dialogue and providing valuable insights. Commerzbank AG has also defined various positions and exclu- sion criteria for its core business that contribute to protecting bio- diversity and ecosystems. Further information can be found in section E4-2. The position on deforestation published at the begin- ning of 2024 and the associated target for 2025 represent an im- portant measure in combating land use change. Further information"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 109 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report NACE level 2 Total outstanding loans and investments Mio. € Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO2eq Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Scope 3 emissions tCO2eq Scope 3 emission intensity tCO2eq/Mio. € Administrative and support service activities N.79 Travel agency, tour operator and other reservation service and related activities 259.0 23,184.3 89.5 35,134.8 135.7 N.80 Security and investigation activities 100.1 28,606.6 285.8 55,051.0 550.0 N.81 Services to buildings and landscape activities 67.6 14,289.3 211.4 22,528.9 333.3 N.82 Office administrative, office support and other business support activities 386.0 30,543.8 79.1 47,449.5 122.9 Public administration and defence; compulsory social security O.84 Public administration and defence, compulsory social security 31.4 1,581.7 50.4 2,207.7 70.4 Education P.85 Education 81.1 4,959.1 61.1 8,915.8 109.9 Human health and social work activities Q.86 Human health activities 661.0 34,624.7 52.4 95,709.6 144.8 Q.87 Residential care activities 85.9 3,222.9 37.5 14,989.5 174.5 Q.88 Social work activities without accommodation 28.4 811.8 28.6 5,100.9 179.5 Arts, entertainment and recreation R.90 Creative, arts and entertainment activities 107.4 9,593.2 89.3 14,605.4 135.9 R.91 Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural activities 3.8 227.7 60.4 323.4 85.8 R.92 Gambling and betting activities 201.7 7,851.3 38.9 11,620.1 57.6 R.93 Sports activities and amusement and recreation activities 167.0 8,994.9 53.9 16,139.3 96.7 Other services activities S.94 Activities of membership organisations 150.3 10,157.2 67.6 13,926.5 92.6 S.95 Repair of computers and personal and household goods 0.2 56.2 276.5 300.6 1,479.1 S.96 Other personal service activities 446.6 26,766.7 59.9 41,472.1 92.9 Activities of households as employers; undifferentiated goods and services-producing activities of households for own-use T.97 Activities of households as employers of domestic personnel 0.2 223.5 1,291.3 101.2 584.6 T.98 Undifferentiated goods- and services- producing activities of private households for own use 0.0 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies U.99 Activities of extraterritorial organisations and bodies 0.0 - - - -"
"110 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 [E1-7] GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits GHG removal and storage Climate change mitigation is an important aspect of our corporate responsibility. We continuously strive to further reduce our ecolog- ical footprint. We follow the principle of “Avoid and reduce before offsetting”. We offset unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions from our banking operations as well as selected Scope 3 emissions from Commerzbank AG by purchasing and cancelling high-quality car- bon credits. In the current reporting period, we offset a total of 96,934 tones of CO2eq through the purchase and cancellation of carbon credits outside the value chain. Of this, 25% is accounted for by the “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project in Pakistan, which uses nature-based methods to reduce carbon emissions through mangrove reforesta- tion. The remaining 75% comes from projects to avoid carbon emissions, including the “Nouakchott 30 MW Wind Power Plant” (wind energy in Mauritania) and the “CTL Landfill Gas Project” (biogas in Brazil). All projects mentioned meet the recognised qual- ity standards of the Verra Verified Carbon Standard or the Gold Standard. The “Delta Blue Carbon – 1” project can also provide so- called Corresponding Adjustments. Detailed information on the individual projects can be found on our homepage on carbon off- setting for banking operations. Offsetting is based on our annually recorded and externally ver- ified Commerzbank AG greenhouse gas emissions. In the 2024 re- porting year we offset both current emissions and parts of emissions from 2023. Offsetting strategy All projects meet the highest quality standards. The integrity of emission reduction projects and the carbon credits generated from them is crucial to achieve effective carbon offsetting. We therefore act according to our principles for compensating unavoidable car- bon emissions when selecting projects. These principles relate to the quality of the credits, the technologies used and the countries where the projects are located. Offsetting is implemented exclu- sively through projects with generally recognised quality standards such as the Verra Verified Carbon Standard, Gold Standard or Plan Vivo. When selecting projects, we also follow the Core Carbon Prin- ciples (CCP) framework, which outlines a comprehensive approach to ensuring quality and integrity in the voluntary carbon market. The focus of the projects we select is on countries in the global South, as these are often the ones most affected by the conse- quences of climate change. We do not remove or store any greenhouse gases in our own operations or in the upstream and downstream value chain. Information on the reduction and storage of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon credits in tCO2eq tCO2eq 2024 GHG removals and storage in own operations and in the upstream and downstream value chain - GHG emission reductions or removals from climate change mitigation projects outside the value chain1 96,934 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year. Carbon credits cancelled in the reporting year 2024 Total in tCO2eq1 96,934 Share from reduction projects (in %) 75.3 Share from removal projects (in %) 24.7 Share of recognised quality standard ""Gold Standard"" (in %) 31.0 Share of recognised quality standard ""Verra Verified Carbon Standard"" (in %) 69.1 Share from projects within the EU (in %) 0.0 Share that qualify as corresponding adjustments (in %) 24.7 1 The total also includes carbon credits cancelled with retroactive effect for the previous reporting year."
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 111 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in future tCO2eq Amount until 2030 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the reporting period 0 Carbon credits planned to be cancelled in the future 1,066 [E4-1] Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model Commerzbank wants to play an active role in protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. We have developed a wide range of activities, measures and objectives for this purpose, which we describe in de- tail in ESRS E4-2 to E4-6. At the present time, however, Com- merzbank does not have a comprehensive transition plan on this topic, since this was identified as immaterial for us during the ma- teriality assessment. In addition, the methodological basis and data availability needed to draw up such a transition plan currently fall short of requirements. Commerzbank is actively working to solve these challenges. Further information can be found in ESRS E4-2 to E4-6. Biodiversity risks, like climate risks, are regularly included in the business and sustainability strategy. As part of its annual strategy process, Commerzbank analyses various key indicators and envi- ronmental factors that are relevant to the Bank’s strategy and busi- ness model. This analysis includes both internal perspectives (including employees) and external perspectives (including custom- ers and investors). The results and conclusions from the holistic analysis are used in the downstream strategy process to develop the strategy and business model. Commerzbank also conducts an annual assessment of the mate- riality of biodiversity risks, including their impact on business risks. The results of this analysis are used to help develop the business strategy, the business risk strategy and the various sub-risk strate- gies. For further information on how we incorporate biodiversity into our strategy and business model, please see ESRS E4 SBM-3. [E4-2] Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems Almost all global economic activities depend on biodiversity and ecosystem services. A look at the current state of biodiversity makes it clear that the time for action is now. Dependency and impacts on biodiversity can lead to physical and transition risks – but they can also create opportunities. For this rea- son, the topic of biodiversity is also of strategic importance for Com- merzbank AG. Concepts in Commerzbank’s banking business Commerzbank AG has already adopted specific positions and exclu- sion criteria geared to protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. Im- portant aspects include land use change, pollution and the use of water and marine resources. A major problem concerning land use change is deforestation. To minimise deforestation risks in Commerzbank AG’s portfolio, we have formulated our own position on the topic of deforestation. For more information on this strategy, see ESRS E4-3 and E4-4. Furthermore, in its position on mining, Commerzbank AG ex- cludes the financing of mining projects that use mountain top re- moval (MTR) due to the damage this does to the surrounding area, as well as the financing of companies that mine coal using this method. This mining technique is extremely harmful to the environ- ment and results in significant land use changes. Ecological factors as well as reports of adverse impacts on high conservation value areas and UNESCO World Heritage Sites, for ex- ample in the energy and fossil fuel sectors, are also included in a case-by-case assessment. Taking these factors into account should help to preserve important ecological and cultural regions and mit- igate changes in these areas."
"112 Commerzbank Annual Report 2024 With regard to the impacts of pollution on protecting biodiversity and ecosystems, Commerzbank AG also takes a critical view of is- sues such as water and groundwater contamination. The petro- chemical sector is often closely linked with the topic of pollution, particularly water and groundwater contamination. Commerzbank AG therefore subjects business relationships with petrochemical companies and petrochemical projects to a differentiated case-by- case assessment, which can potentially lead to a business relation- ship or project being terminated or denied. Commerzbank AG also takes the topic of water into account within the context of its asset management. Direct investments are excluded in companies where serious compliance violations have been identified with the principles of the UN Global Compact. These comprise, among others, minimum environmental standards with regard to impacts on the sustainable use and conservation of water and marine resources. Investments may be authorised in individual cases if Commerzbank analyses have identified a positive outlook for the company’s development moving forward. On the other hand, the financing that Commerzbank AG provides can also have a positive impact on protecting biodiversity and eco- systems. We classify the financing of nature-related activities as sustainable financing within the meaning of our ESG framework. Our sustainable product solutions include financing sustainable crop cultivation, sustainable forestry, conservation of natural areas and soil remediation. Such financing contributes directly to sustain- able land use. At Commerz Real, compliance with the exclusion criteria of Commerzbank AG in the fund business, for equity investments, in the mandate business and for equipment leasing is already ensured through the business models and through the restrictions imposed on specific asset classes. Concepts in the context of risk management Commerzbank’s overall risk strategy sets out the Bank’s strategic framework and, together with the Bank’s sub-risk strategies, forms the basis for the risk strategies of its subsidiaries. Based on the risk inventory, the overall risk strategy defines biodiversity risks as a horizontal risk driver, meaning that biodiversity risks can have an impact on existing risk types. The strategy also specifies how biodiversity risks should be inte- grated in the risk inventory. The overall risk strategy undergoes a comprehensive review in the second half of each year, before being submitted to the Strategic Risk Committee for a vote and subse- quently to the Board of Managing Directors for approval. The over- all risk strategy is then discussed by the Risk Committee of the Supervisory Board and brought to the attention of the Supervisory Board. The ESG Risk Assessment Concept defines the framework for assessing ESG risks for Commerzbank Group, including biodiver- sity risks, and forms part of Commerzbank Group’s stress testing framework. The document specifies the processes, methodological requirements, definitions and result parameters for the risk analysis and is updated annually. The overall document is approved by the Board of Managing Directors. mBank policies mBank has adopted a position on dealing with reputational risk- sensitive industries, which includes the protection of high conser- vation value areas, UNESCO World Heritage Sites and other pro- tected areas. This position limits the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem services and reduces possible land use changes in these areas. mBank takes due account of environmental risks and oppor- tunities in its lending policy, which sets out requirements that must be met by corporate clients from sectors or economic activities with a high environmental risk as part of the risk assessment process. The directive also includes criteria for sustainability-related financ- ing and defines a classification framework for sustainable loans. mBank does not yet take product traceability into account and has not formulated any explicit positions on the sustainable use of oceans or combating deforestation. [E4-3] Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems Commerzbank AG implements a wide range of measures to protect biodiversity and ecosystems. It has committed itself to the require- ments of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), and since 2023 has been guided by the standards and re- quirements outlined in the TNFD in an ongoing effort to comply with these more completely and comprehensively. In addition, Commerzbank AG is an active member of the Biodi- versity in Good Company initiative (BiGCI), as part of which it works together with like-minded companies from the real economy to ad- vocate for the protection and sustainable use of biological diversity, nurturing a productive dialogue and providing valuable insights. Commerzbank AG has also defined various positions and exclu- sion criteria for its core business that contribute to protecting bio- diversity and ecosystems. Further information can be found in section E4-2. The position on deforestation published at the begin- ning of 2024 and the associated target for 2025 represent an im- portant measure in combating land use change. Further information"
"To our Shareholders Corporate Responsibility Management Report Risk Report Financial Statements Further Information 113 47 Sustainability Report 302 Basis of the Commerzbank Group 309 Economic report 319 Segment performance 322 Information on Commerzbank AG (HGB) 325 Outlook and opportunities report can be found in ESRS E4-4. The position is aimed at corporate cli- ents in regions and sectors with a high risk of deforestation, such as forestry, soybean cultivation, palm oil production and cattle farm- ing. It requires that these companies provide proof of internationally recognised memberships such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) or the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef (GRSB), or certifications such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) or the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) by no later than end-2025. These memberships and certifications require com- panies to adhere to strict rules for protecting biodiversity and eco- systems and include regular audits and reports that document the status and changes in biodiversity. The geographical scope was an- alysed and defined individually for each sector: For the forestry sec- tor, this affects all high-risk areas according to the Forest 500 High Risk Country List; for the palm oil sector it applies worldwide; and for the beef and soy sectors it pertains to the Amazon basin. The relevant countries in the Amazon basin are Brazil, French Guiana, Suriname, Guyana, Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia. Commerzbank AG regularly analyses new developments on the topic of deforestation and will adjust its position accordingly if nec- essary. In its business and business relationships in the field of biodi- versity, Commerzbank AG also takes into account indications of hu- man rights violations, including those affecting local communities and indigenous peoples. In addition, the assessment of reputational risk management incorporates a wide range of other factors, partic- ularly in relation to compliance with environmental protection and sustainable land use practices, which in turn help to protect biodi- versity and ecosystems. Further information can be found in our ESG framework, which is available on the Commerzbank website. Commerzbank AG has held various dedicated information events for employees about protecting biological diversity and ecosystems in order to provide information to and raise awareness among its front office staff. At these events, interested employees are intro- duced to the basics of protecting biodiversity and ecosystems, and in particular to the challenges and requirements of our corporate clients; potential financing solutions relating to this topic are also explored. Furthermore, Commerzbank AG plans to expand the quality and quantity of relevant ESG, location and supply chain data in order to improve its risk and impact assessment. The biggest challenges in identifying and managing biodiversity-related impacts and risks are the availability of relevant data and a lack of standardised metrics. When the necessary progress is made in this area, this will facilitate the development of location-based metrics and formulation of fur- ther nature-related positions and targets. For sales, Commerzbank AG plans to integrate additional aspects of protecting biodiversity and ecosystems into its financial products and services, as well as more extensive information initiatives for sales teams. In its sustainability strategy, Commerzbank AG focuses on avoid- ing negative impacts on biodiversity in the customer portfolio. Con- sequently, it does not implement any biodiversity offsetting measures. It is currently not possible to quantify the resources that Com- merzbank spends on biodiversity and ecosystems, as these are es- sentially opportunity costs. However, we are confident that these opportunity costs are offset in at least the same amount by the ben- efits that are derived for both biodiversity and Commerzbank. The risk side of Commerzbank focuses on the execution and further development of risk analyses in order to obtain a more detailed un- derstanding of the Bank’s biodiversity risk profile. These are de- scribed in detail in the section E4 SBM-3. In addition, Commerzbank is also involved in various working groups and asso- ciations, including the Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (VfU), as well as in a pub- lic-private partnership project headed by Wageningen University & Research with the aim of improving quantitative biodiversity risk analysis, also incorporating scenario analyses and stress tests. [E4-4] Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems An important aspect of Commerzbank AG’s position on deforesta- tion is the concrete target that all corporate clients in the forestry, soy, palm oil and beef sectors in regions with a high risk of defor- estation must demonstrate their commitment to combating defor- estation through relevant memberships such as in RSPO or GRSB or certifications such as FSC, PEFC, RTRS or RSPO by no later than end-2025. Relevant customer relationships are subjected to critical review on a regular and targeted basis to ensure the targets are achieved. The objective is therefore essentially to demonstrate that the customer is committed to preventing and minimising land use change. This includes promoting product traceability, sustainable resources management and transparency in reporting, as well as mitigating the social impacts of biodiversity loss, upholding the rights of local communities and advocating for fair labour practices."