"Upstream value chain Downstream value chain Own operations Positive impact Negative impact Risk Opportunity Carbon removal through nature-based projects Potential positive impact Scope 3 GHG emissions from regular power sales and natural gas sales Negative impact Scope 3 GHG emissions from regular power sales and natural gas sales Negative impact Climate-related physical risks (chronic and acute) Risk Energy consumption, mainly at our CHP plants Negative impact Scope 3 GHG emissions from the renewable energy supply chain Negative impact //ESRS 2, SBM-3 Our material impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) E1 Climate change Climate-related transition risks due to changes in political support for the renewable energy build-out Risk Renewable energy deployment Positive impact Opportunity Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from our operations Negative impact 81 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E1"
"// ESRS 2, SBM-3; E1, SBM-3 Our material impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) In the tables to the right and on the next page are descriptions of our material IROs related to climate change, including how we manage them. These IROs are closely tied to our strategic decision over 15 years ago to transform our business model from fossil-based to renewable energy and to expand our portfolio to include offshore and onshore wind, solar, and storage solutions. While deploying renewable energy is ­essential for the transition to a sustainable energy ­system, we recognise that it has associated GHG emissions from resource extraction, ­manufacturing, and service operations. There- fore, we also focus our efforts on decarbonising our supply chain to mitigate these impacts. The impacts are highly connected to our strategy and business model and occur through our contruction and operation activities as well as through business relationships with suppliers. The resilience of our business to potential ­negative impacts and risks is shaped by the broader political framework for ­renewable energy deployment as well as effective ­collaboration across the value chain to achieve our commercial and sustainability ambition. While we continue to monitor developments and adapt as needed, our strategy and ­business model have been assessed as capable of addressing these challenges and leveraging climate-­related opportunities. Material IRO description How do we manage the IRO? Renewable energy deployment Positive impact (own operations) Opportunity (own operations) The positive impact and opportunity arise from our deployment of renewable energy. Generally, risks associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy present opportunities for Ørsted, as our vision and long term ambitions are closely aligned with this transition. We create environmental and societal benefits by developing and operating renewable energy assets, which are critical technologies for decarbonising society and limiting global warming to 1.5 °C. Deploying renewable energy is at the core of our business, and we address this ­material opportunity and positive impact through our business model and strategy. Carbon removal through nature-based projects Potential positive impact (own operations) This potential positive impact arises from carbon removal achieved through our nature-based projects, which complement our efforts to reduce emissions by supporting climate action beyond our value chain and are not a substitute for direct emission reductions. Initiatives such as mangrove reforestation in the Gambia remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, supporting efforts to limit global warming to 1.5 °C. The impact is expected to materialise over a medium timescale of three to five years as mangrove forests mature. We have taken several actions to pursue this positive impact related to carbon removal through nature-based projects, which support broader ­climate action and sustainability objectives. Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from our operations Negative impact (own operations) This negative impact arises from our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. Scope 1 emissions primarily result from fossil fuel-based heat and power generation at our CHP plants, with a smaller contribution from operation and maintenance activities. Scope 2 emissions stem from the purchase and consumption of electricity and heat. We fully cover our electricity consumption with renewable energy ­certificates, effectively reducing our net scope 2 emissions. While our scope 1 and 2 emissions are relatively low compared to other industries, they still negatively impact the environment by contributing to global warming. We have strategic targets aimed at reducing our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity. These are supported by actions such as transitioning away from fossil fuel-based power generation, increasing the use of renewable energy, and improving energy efficiency across our operations. Material IRO description How do we manage the IRO? Scope 3 GHG emissions from the renewable energy supply chain Negative impact (upstream value chain) Scope 3 GHG emissions from regular power and natural gas sales Negative impact (upstream and downsteam value chain) These negative impacts relate to activities that result in scope 3 GHG emissions, contributing to global warming. They include: (a) upstream emissions in our renewable energy supply chain, including material extraction and manufacturing (category 2) (b) upstream and downsteam emissions from power sales stemming from extraction, processing, transportation, and energy generation within the residual energy mix (category 3) (c) upstream and downstream emissions from gas sales, covering both biogas and natural gas (category 11). We have strategic targets to reduce our scope 1-3 GHG emissions intensity, our scope 3 GHG emissions from gas sales, and actions to decarbonise our value chain. Climate-related transition risks due to changes in political support for the renewable energy build-out Risk (own operations) This climate-related transition risk arises due to possible changes in the political and regulatory landscape, which could result in insufficient support for renewable energy deployment or the removal of existing subsidies and incentives. This risk specifically concerns investment subsidies (e.g. capital grants) and production subsidies (e.g. feed-in tariffs or tax credits). It could impact our operations, potentially influencing project viability. We are actively engaged in climate-­related advocacy, call- ing our stakeholders to action for activities that will accelerate the renewable energy build-out and help manage this risk. We continuously monitor emerging or evolving geopoliti- cal and macroeconomic risks. Climate change mitigation → 82 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E1"
"Material IRO description How do we manage the IRO? Climate-related physical risks (chronic and acute) Risk (own operations) The chronic physical risks relate to the dependency of renewable energy generation on natural resources, such as wind patterns, and the acute physical risks relate to a potential increase in the severity and frequency of extreme weather events. We assess the resilience of all new assets towards the occurrence of climate-related hazards. Energy consumption, mainly at our CHP plants Negative impact (own operations) We have identified a negative impact associated with energy consumption at our combined heat and power (CHP) plants, which includes the use of fossil-based fuels. The use of fossil-based fuels contributes to greenhouse gas emissions, which negatively affect the environment by contributing to global warming. We target reductions in our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. In 2024, we closed Esbjerg Power Station, our last coal-fired CHP plant, advancing our decarbonisation efforts. Climate change adaption Energy This section outlines our approach to managing climate-­ related impacts, risks, and opportunities, ensuring ­resilience and alignment with global ­sustainability goals. While the transition to a green economy offers significant growth opportunities, it also presents ­challenges, particularly in decarbonising supply chains. We have already made substantial progress, transitioning from a fossil fuel-based utility to a global leader in renewable energy. Our policies, strategic actions, and other initiatives highlight our continued efforts towards a low-carbon economy. For an overview of how we have structured this ­chapter, please see page 61. Our IROs are highlighted in italics. // E1-1 Transition plan Ørsted’s transition plan outlines the company’s overall pathway to achieving net-zero emissions by 2040, aligned with the 1.5 °C goal of the Paris Agreement. The plan is substantiated by science-based targets, includes key decarbonisation levers, and identifies strategic actions that have driven the transformation of our business model towards renewable energy and will continue to shape our ongoing transition. The plan supports broader policy priorities, including the European Union’s 2050 climate neutrality goals formalised in the European Green Deal and associated regulations (e.g. the EU taxonomy and the EU Green Bonds Standard). These goals represent both an opportunity and a responsibility to align our business strategy with global decarbonisation efforts, contributing to the renewable energy transition and broader sustainability objectives. First transition wave: Shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy Over the past 15 years, we have undergone a significant transformation, evolving from a fossil fuel-based utility to a global leader in renewable energy deployment. This transformation has been driven by substantial investments in offshore wind, onshore wind, solar PV, and storage assets, achieving material progress in decarbonising energy production. Additionally, our shift to biomass-fuelled combined heat and power (CHP) generation has played a pivotal role during this period. This shift continues to be characterised by the following: · Growth in renewable capacity: In 2024, we continued to expand our renewable energy portfolio, reaching a total of 18.2 GW of installed ­capacity, with a pipeline of 7.6 GW in decided (FID’ed) ­capacity, reinforcing our commitment to advancing the global shift to renew- able energy in line with our long term ambition. · An increase in renewable energy generation and the phase-out of coal: We are on track to meet our 2025 target of a 99 % share of energy genera- tion coming from renewables. Our coal generation ­activities were ceased in 2024. · Capital alignment with climate goals: Since the entry into force of the EU Climate Delegated Act, 99 % of Ørsted’s capital expenditures (CAPEX) have been allocated to activities classified as sustainable. For 2024, these expenditures include DKK 37,867 million for the deployment of offshore and onshore wind capacity, DKK 6,097 million for the deployment of solar PV and energy storage 83 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E1"
"technologies, and DKK 2,836 million for hydro- gen, carbon capture and storage, and bioenergy activities. · A measurable performance: We track and disclose progress of our renewable energy portfolio by monitoring progress towards our installed capacity ambition. In addition, we track and disclose pro- gress towards our decarbonisation efforts through a suite of SBTi-validated climate targets, including near-term targets for 2025 and 2030 as well as long term targets for 2040. As part of the SBTi valida- tion process of our interim targets, we updated the baseline year for our scope 1-2 emissions intensity target to 2018, replacing the original targets of reducing the scope 1-2 emissions intensity by 98 % by 2025 and by 99 % by 2030 from a 2006 base- line. From the updated 2018 baseline, we now aim to achieve a 93 % reduction in scope 1 and 2 GHG ­emissions intensity by 2025 and progress towards a 96 % reduction by 2030. Our interim scope 1-3 GHG emissions intensity target outlines a reduction ­trajectory of ~77 % by 2030. These interim targets serve as critical waypoints that chart our overall pathway to achieving net-zero by 2040. · Climate advocacy: As part of our efforts to advance policies and frameworks that accelerate the transi- tion to renewable energy, we actively engage with policy-makers and industry peers. Addressing transition risks from locked-in emissions Locked-in emissions refer to future emissions resulting from existing or planned infrastructure and assets. In our case, such emissions are tied to our gas sales ­activities. This is primarily due to our binding contractual obligations for offtake volumes of natural gas from the gas fields operated by the Danish ­Underground Consortium (DUC). We recognise the importance of tackling the impacts of our legacy business, as locked-in emissions pose a significant transition challenge if left unadressed. To guide progress toward our net-zero goals, we have set an absolute emissions reduction target for scope 3 emissions from gas sales, aiming to reduce emissions by ~67 % by 2030 (baseline 2018) and by ~90 % by 2040. To mitigate potential risks associated with locked-in emissions, we focus on the following: · Measurable performance: We track and disclose progress towards our absolute reduction targets for gas sales. The targets are aligned with the 1.5 °C pathway, and we aim to remain on track to deliver on our net-zero ambition. · Avoiding additional locked-in emissions: We do not enter into new gas sourcing agreements that would contribute to additional locked-in emissions. As a renewable energy company committed to driving the energy transition, we aim to address the challenges posed by our legacy business. These efforts reflect our commitment to achieving net-zero emissions by 2040 and making a meaningful contribution to the global renewable energy transition. As of 31 December 2024, we are not excluded from the Paris-aligned Benchmark (PAB), providing further evidence for the successful transition away from fossil fuels. Second transition wave: Decarbonising our supply chains Having shown substantial progress in transitioning away from fossil fuels to renewable energy gener- ation, we are now entering the second wave of our transformation: addressing emissions from our value chains. Already today, power from offshore wind farms has 99 % lower GHG emissions than power from coal. However, the large scale of renewable energy projects creates both a need and an opportunity to further decarbonise, particularly by addressing emis- sions, such as steel production, maritime fuels, and manufacturing processes. Achieving our 2040 net-zero target will require close collaboration with suppliers and industry peers. This wave is characterised by the following: · Value chain decarbonisation road map: We con- tinuously revise and improve our company-wide decarbonisation roadmap to stay aligned with the latest developments and support informed decision-making. · Active supplier engagement: We work closely with key suppliers to drive the integration of decarboni- sation into their strategies and operations. · Partnerships: We work to establish strong partner­ ships and collaborate with key suppliers to support the decarbonisation of our value chain. Strategic partnerships, such as our collaboration with ­Dillinger, play a vital role in securing access to lower-emissions steel for critical components like offshore wind monopile foundations. · Tracking and measuring: We continue to improve our in-house life cycle assessment capabilities to ­measure and monitor value chain emissions reductions effec- tively. We maintain detailed emissions reporting both internally and externally, with external reports being subject to limited assurance. Governance and oversight of the transition plan Matters related to the transition plan are addressed within our sustainability governance framework. The elements of our transition plan are fully disclosed in our annual report, which is presented to shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting (AGM), providing them with an opportunity to offer feedback. The way forward Our vision supported by our strategic ambition remains clear: to create a world that runs entirely on green energy. Achieving this ambition requires us to remain attuned to a market environment increasingly shaped by national climate ambitions, regulatory developments, and the need to proactively identify and manage material sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities that influence our long term resilience and competitiveness. As the interlinkages between rising global tempera- tures, biodiversity loss, resource scarcity, and affected communities become more pronounced, they are driving shifts in demand, investment priorities, and expectations for corporate action. Managing these sustainability-related dynamics is essential to main- taining our leadership in the energy transition and securing our organisation’s adaptability in a trans- forming market. 84 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E1"
"We continue to leverage advanced technologies and scalable solutions to optimise renewable energy ­integration and supply chain decarbonisation, as outlined in our innovation report. Additionally, as highlighted in our first climate advocacy report, we actively engage in shaping policies to align global energy needs with the 1.5 °C goal set by the Paris Agreement. The ­climate advocacy report includes an assessment of our most important industry associa- tions in terms of their alignment with this goal. Guided by our ‘Just transition policy’, we are commit- ted to inclusivity by safeguarding workers, support- ing communities, and protecting ecosystems as we advance the global energy transformation. By collab- orating closely with local communities, we strive to create opportunities, foster socio-economic growth, and ensure that the renewable energy transition is fair and brings meaningful benefits to all involved. Through innovation, advocacy, and a focus on equity, we aim to lead this transition responsibly. // // ESRS 2, SBM-3; E1, SBM-3 and IRO-1 Resilience analysis Scope of the resilience analysis As a global leader in renewable energy, we employ a comprehensive approach to assessing and man- aging climate-related transition and physical risks, ensuring not only alignment with evolving regulatory requirements but also the resilience of our business model and strategy. Thus, identifying and addressing climate-related impacts, risks, and opportunities are at the core of our vision to create a world that runs entirely on green energy. Our approach to resilience analysis consists of two main components: 1. Assessing and managing transition risks and oppor- tunities, which include macroeconomic, political, technological, and market developments associated with the global shift to a low-carbon economy. 2. Conducting physical climate risk assessments to evaluate how climate-related hazards (chronic and acute), including extreme weather events and long- term climate changes, may impact our operations. Transition risks and opportunities Transition risks stem from a shift to a low-carbon economy and encompass factors such as new regu- lations, technological innovation, changing market dynamics, and shifting consumer preferences. Over the past decades, we have effectively mitigated these risks by transforming our business model from fossil fuels to renewable energy, aligning our operations with a 1.5 °C climate trajectory. This proactive shift has positioned us well to capitalise on the increasing demand for renewable energy deployment. Neverthe- less, we recognise that a key challenge to the overall industry is the possibility of insufficient political support for a continued renewable energy build-out, which is critical to the global energy transition. Insufficient political or regulatory support for renewable energy deployment has also been assessed as part of the financial part of our double materiality assessment. Transition risks are particularly relevant to our opera- tions in the US, where changes in investment conditions, reductions in subsidies, or shifting policy priorities could increase uncertainty for future projects. This is why Transition plan highlights Governance · Board level oversight of transition efforts. · Executive incentives linked to climate performance indicators. Financial planning · Capital alignment with climate goals and a 1.5 °C world – 99 % of CAPEX allocated in 2024 is classified as sustainable. Strategy · Renewable energy deployment aligned with global, regional, and national level decarbonisation goals and a 1.5 °C pathway. Targets · Comprehensive suite of SBTi-validated near-term and long-term climate targets (intensity and absolute), supported by Ørsted-specific climate targets. Scenario analysis · Addressing climate-related physical and transition risks, such as extreme weather events and climate variability, and regulatory and political shifts, respectively. Scope 1, 2, and 3 accounting with limited assurance · Detailed greenhouse gas emissions reporting, which is subject to limited assurance. Risks and opportunities · We monitor climate-related risks, such as changes in the regulatory and political landscape, and assess design safeguards and business case impacts. · Renewable energy deployment as a busi- ness model to mitigate climate change. Policy engagement · Active engagement with policymakers, industry stakeholders, and communities to support the renewable energy transition. Advocacy aligned with the goal of the Paris Agreement. Value chain engagement · Engaging key suppliers on climate, representing 50 % of procurement spend. Vision · To create a world that runs entirely on green energy. 85 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E1"
"monitoring changes to political and regulatory stability is critical for our long-term planning and investment. Our approach to managing risks ensures that global trends – such as inflation, interest rate fluctuations, supply chain disruptions, and geopolitical uncertainties – are monitored and factored into our strategic planning and day-to-day operations. Please see the section ‘Enterprise risk management’ in this report for more details on how the most material enterprise risks for 2024 are impacted by global trends. Physical climate risks These risks arise from physical impacts of climate change, including acute events, such as extreme weather (e.g. hailstorms, typhoons, flooding, and heat- and coldwaves), and chronic changes (e.g. changing temperatures and wind patterns). Physical climate risks for us include chronic risks, such as the dependency of renewable energy generation on natural resources like wind patterns, and acute risks, such as the increasing severity and frequency of extreme weather events. Chronic risks may lead to greater uncertainty in production estimates over time, while acute risks could result in, for example, extended temporary shutdowns and increased maintenance and repair requirements. Therefore, we assess the resilience of our assets towards the occurrence of climate-related hazards. Our climate risk assessment links directly to our efforts to ensure fulfilment of the ‘do no significant harm’ requirements of the EU taxonomy for climate change adaptation while also focusing on design ­safeguards and business case risks. Methodology of the resilience analysis Transition risks and opportunities Transition risks, including macroeconomic, business, and geopolitical risks, are managed through our ‘­Enterprise risk management (ERM) framework’, sup- ported by dedicated teams. This framework provides a high-level, principle-based structure for addressing all risks to which Ørsted may be exposed. The ERM framework sets the standards for individual risk frame- works across the organisation, ensuring that risks are ­identified and managed in line with the ­appetite for risk. Complementing the ERM framework is the double materiality assessment (DMA), which serves as both an assessment methodology and a focused lens for driving sustainability-related matters. Risks are assessed on an ongoing basis as part of our day- to-day business. The derived insights, including the DMA outcomes, are synthesised to provide a comprehensive view of sustainability-related risks and opportunities, ensuring alignment with our strategy and business model. Emerging risks, such as shifts in the political landscape, are part of the ERM framework and are monitored by dedicated, regionally split teams, which oversee region-specific developments. Physical climate risks In 2024, we extended our comprehensive analysis, conducted in 2023, to a number of assets that started generating in 2024. This process included mapping climate projections for new assets against 2023 data to identify and assess any significant differences in projected trends. A full reassessment of the portfolio was deemed unnecessary, as the underlying projec- tion data, sourced from CMIP (used in IPCC reports), is only updated every few years. Our latest assessment is based on CMIP6, which we will continue to use until CMIP7 is released. In addition, there have been no sig- nificant changes to either our business case assump- tions for generating assets related to climate change risks or our internal methodology for assessing these risks, which would require a full reassessment. We assess physical risks from two perspectives: design safeguards and business case impacts. The design safeguard evaluation ensures the structural integrity and resilience of assets against climate hazards using region-specific data. Our analysis focuses on offshore, onshore, and bioenergy assets that have reached final investment decision, representing critical components of our portfolio. The business case impact assessment is conducted at a high-resolution, asset-by-asset level under the SSP5-8.5 worst-case scenario. This conservative approach ensures resilience measures address severe climate risks and protect long-term operational and financial stability. The scope includes offshore and onshore assets currently generating across our operating markets, representing the majority of our ­climate risk exposure. Our physical climate risk assessment analyses data based on the remaining operational lifetimes of our assets, which extend up to 35 years. This period is ­considered medium term in climate projections, as significant climate changes are not typically observed in the short term. The long-term horizon, defined as 2060 onwards, is not applicable under our current methodology, as all existing assets are scheduled for decommissioning before that time. For the purposes of meeting financial materiality assessment requirements, we have also considered the following time horizons: short term (covering the current reporting year and the next year), medium term (from the end of the short-term period to five years), and long term (more than five years). Apply- ing these horizons did not lead to any changes in the results of the assessment. It is important to note that, in the context of climate change, these time horizons are relatively short term and may not fully reflect the scale of risks that develop over extended periods. Results of the resilience analysis Transition risks and opportunities Transition risks and opportunities are integral to the business cases for our investments in new assets, tech- nologies, and activities. We actively monitor ­market developments and regularly update our business cases to ensure alignment of mitigation actions with evolving conditions, maintaining a focus on delivering value to our investors. In particular, we recognise the potential for political shifts in the US to impact the prioritisation of renew- able energy policies. To address this risk, we maintain continuous monitoring of political developments and regulatory frameworks, adapting our strategies to align with changing circumstances. By closely engag- ing with stakeholders and leveraging our diversified portfolio and global operations, we aim to ensure resil- ience and flexibility in responding to such transitions. This proactive approach allows us to remain well-­ positioned in the face of evolving political landscapes. 86 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E1"
"Physical climate risks The results of the physical climate risk assessment show that all our assets are structurally protected against physical risks from climate change. This is achieved through a combination of design safeguards and mitigation measures, including active collabora- tion with wind turbine manufacturers to tailor designs to local conditions, and conducting stress tests for extreme scenarios during the design process. These measures are particularly effective in addressing acute physical risks such as heatwaves, coldwaves, frost, cyclone, and typhoons. From a business case perspective, the most significant climate risks for our portfolio are changes in wind patterns and, to a lesser extent, air temperature, as these factors directly affect energy production. While our analysis indicates only minor deviations in asset values compared to projections based on historical climate data, we recognise the materiality of climate change risks due to their unique nature. These risks develop gradually over time, with impacts that can compound, and are characterised by a fat tail distribution – meaning they involve a low probability of extreme events with potentially severe consequences. This underscores the importance of continuous improvement in assessment methodologies to better capture these dynamics and their potential implications. We therefore acknowledge the need for further investigation going forward as we strive to reduce uncertainties associated with our assessments. In addition, to mitigating risks through design safe- guards and business case considerations, our risk management strategy incorporates estimated ­maximum loss (EML) assessments to quantify potential financial exposures and ensure sufficient insurance protection and financial resilience against unfore- seen extreme events. The way forward Balancing progress and challanges We have demonstrated the ability to adapt our ­strategy and business model to address climate change by aligning projects and their associated financing with the EU taxonomy for sustainable ­activities. This approach ensures that financing is directed toward sustainable initiatives, support- ing the transition to a low-carbon economy while ­maintaining access to affordable financing. Additionally, we work closely with key ­stakeholders to support this alignment, reinforcing our capacity to redeploy resources and decommission assets effec- tively as part of our long-term strategy. We remain dedicated to a robust understanding of climate-­ related risks. To support this, we plan to re-run the full climate risk assessment for our asset port­folio in 2025, incorporating updated ­methodologies. This approach ensures our climate-related risk ­management ­practices remain thorough, efficient, and aligned with the observed level of risk. While we are committed to driving a just transition towards renewables, we recognise that various factors, including macroeconomic conditions and technological advancements, influence the pace of progress. To mitigate these risks and capitalise on opportunities, we advocate for political support and initiatives that foster stable macroeconomic conditions, ensuring the continued deployment of renewable energy. Classification of climate-related hazards, cf. the TCFD classification and the EU taxonomy’s Climate Delegated Act Relation Chronic Acute Temperature ✓ Changing temperature (air, freshwater, marine water) ✓ Heatwave ✓ Heat stress ✓ Coldwave/frost ✓ Temperature variability ✓ Wildfire × Permafrost thawing Water ✓ Changing precipitation patterns and types (rain, hail, snow/ice) ✓ Drought ✓ Precipitation or hydrological variability ✓ Heavy precipitation (rain, hail, snow/ice) ✓ Ocean acidification ✓ Flood (coastal, fluvial, pluvial, groundwater) ✓ Saline intrusion × Glacial lake outburst ✓ Sea level rise ✓ Water stress Wind ✓ Changing wind patterns ✓ Cyclone, hurricane, typhoon ✓ Storm (including blizzards, dust, and sandstorms) ✓ Tornado Solid mass ✓ Coastal erosion × Avalanche ✓ Soil degradation ✓ Landslide ✓ Soil erosion ✓ Subsidence ✓ Solifluction ✓ Hazard included in assessment × Hazard not relevant to include due to geographical location of assets 87 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E1"
"// ESRS 2, SBM-3 Our material impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) In the tables to the right and on the next page are descriptions of our material IROs related to biodiversity and ecosystems, including how we manage them. The impacts primarily originate from our renewable energy business activities but also partly from our legacy business relating to coal and gas. These impacts occur both through our busi- ness relationships with suppliers and through our own activities of constructing our renew- able assets. Material IRO description How do we manage the IRO? Natural resources exploitation and land-use and freshwater-use change from mining Negative impact (upstream value chain) Ecotoxicity from mining Negative impact (upstream value chain) These negative impacts concern natural resources exploitation in our supply chain related to mining and refining processes of metals and minerals. Mining of metals and minerals in our supply chain is a direct impact driver of biodiversity loss through land-use and freshwater-use change and ecotoxicity from run-off. It also impacts ecosystems through land degradation. We have completed a mapping to help us understand potential negative impacts on biodiversity that we may have in our value chain. We continue to explore ways to identify and miti- gate impacts across our value chain, including our first attempt at mapping impacts from high impact commodi- ties (HICs) in our upstream value chain. Land-use and sea-use change from coal and gas extraction Negative impact (upstream value chain) This negative impact concerns natural resources exploitation in our supply chain related to coal and gas extraction. Our supply chain has adverse impacts on biodiversity through land-use change due to mining and refining processes of coal and through sea-use change from extraction and refining processes of gas that we primarily source from the North Sea. We are working towards ­managing our biodiversity-related negative impacts in our value chain. In 2024, we closed our last coal-fired CHP plant, eliminating the impact from coal from 2025. Material IRO description How do we manage the IRO? Habitat loss from land degradation from mining Negative impact (upstream value chain) For details related to this IRO, see ‘natural resources exploitation’ impact. Biodiversity restoration, research, and innovation initiatives Positive impact 1 (own operations) Opportunity 1 (own operations) This positive impact relates to our habitat and ecosystem ­restoration efforts, including our efforts to protect and restore wider supportive ecosystems, e.g. salt marshes. We conduct species restoration efforts as well as research on habitats, species, and innovation, e.g. biodiversity monitoring and track- ing. The impact positively affects the environment by restoring species, ecosystems, and habitats. We also see this as an opportunity to attract patient capital and secure favourable conditions when accessing financing on capital markets or through business partnerships. We have implemented several biodiversity pilot projects, monitoring plans, and innovative initiatives to work towards achieving our 2030 net-positive ambition. The most recent one being the launch of our ‘Biodiversity measurement framework’, which will allow us to measure and assess impacts on biodiversity at an asset level, across offshore and onshore operations. Temporary disturbances to habitats during construction Negative impact (own operations) This negative impact concerns the disturbances of habitats ­during the construction of our renewable energy assets. Construction of renewable energy projects causes temporary disturbances to habitats due to ground preparation and the presence of infrastructure. At an asset level, we prefer to always have a biodiversity action plan in place, which helps us map out our negative impacts and plan out our mitigating actions accordingly. Direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss Impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems 1 The positive impact and opportunity also fall under the sub-topic ‘Impacts on the state of species’. → 109 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E4"
"Material IRO description How do we manage the IRO? Species population size decrease and global extinction risk increase due to mining Negative impact (upstream value chain) This negative impact is linked to natural resources exploitation in our supply chain related to mining and refining processes of metals and minerals. Mining of metals and minerals in our supply chain impacts ecosystems through land degradation, which can lead to habitat loss and impacts species by causing a decrease in species population size and poten- tially extinction. We have completed a mapping to help us understand potential negative impacts to biodiversity that we may have in our value chain. We continue to explore ways to identify and mitigate impacts across our value chain, including our first attempt at mapping impacts from high impact commodities (HICs) in our upstream value chain. Temporary displacement or loss of species during construction Negative impact (own operations) This negative impact concerns the disturbances of species during the construction of our renewable energy assets. Construction of renewable energy projects causes temporary displace- ment of species, or, in some instances, loss of species through adverse impacts on foraging, breeding, and wintering areas. At an asset level, we prefer to always have a biodiversity action plan in place, which helps us map out our negative impacts and plan out our mitigating actions accordingly. When we identify overlaps with e.g. an IUCN Red-listed species, an action plan is developed to ensure that we reduce harm to this species or any threatened species. Impacts on the state of species Transitioning away from fossil fuels to renewable energy is fundamental to solving the biodiversity crisis, as climate change is a main driver of biodiversity loss. The space required for the renewable energy transition is significant, and, with a nature in crisis, it is vital that we make sure our energy projects benefit nature. In 2024, we continued taking action to deliver on our ambition to achieve a net-positive biodiversity impact from all new renewable energy projects from 2030. For an overview of how we have structured this chapter, please see page 61. Our IROs are highlighted in italics. // E4-1 Transition plan At Ørsted, we believe that transitioning to ­renewable energy can be part of a solution to the biodiversity crisis, provided it is done correctly. As we continue our renewable energy build-out, we are determined to leave nature as a whole in a better state than we found it. Therefore, our ambition is to take direct action to be able to achieve a net-positive ­biodiversity impact from projects commissioned from 2030 onwards. In 2024, we took the first steps towards this by launching our ‘Biodiversity measurement framework’, further aligning our efforts with global public policy targets like the Global Biodiversity Framework. When developing renewable energy projects, we always adhere to local and national regulations and policies, including those related to biodiversity. This helps ensure that we are also taking our local ­stakeholders and their interests into consideration. Through our double materiality assessment (DMA), we have identified material biodiversity-related impacts and an opportunity in our business, both in our own operations and in our value chain. Identifying and assessing these impacts help us to understand how we can continue to strengthen resilience across our operations, which we also assess using the methodology of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD). // // E4, IRO-1 Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks, and opportunities Impact assessments of own sites and value chain During the project development phase of all our offshore and onshore assets where we are responsible for development, we conduct early risk screenings and develop environmental impact assessments (EIAs) or equivalent plans to assess the potential impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems at the locations of potential new assets. This is then followed by the legally required impact assessment processes, providing data on the biodiversity and ecosystems present at the site location. Based on these findings, we can develop action plans to mitigate our impacts and outline ­restoration measures. Insights from the early risk screenings inform the biodiversity and ecosystem-­ related impacts, risks, dependencies, and opportunities identified and assessed in the DMA for sites in our own operations. This process highlights the importance of early assessments at the beginning of each of our projects to avoid and mitigate potential impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. 110 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E4"
"We have not identified any material dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystems, although soil stability at our sites constitutes the most significant dependency. Regarding our transitional and physical risks, we have mapped out our exposure and have not found significant risks from biodiversity and ecosystems that are not already covered in our mitigation processes and biodiversity action plans. Additionally, we have not identified any systemic risks to our business model that are not addressed through our established practices or the implementation of measures to reach our biodiversity ambition. A key outcome of our biodiversity programme has been the development of our ‘Biodiversity measurement framework’, which will ensure that we can capture all potential impacts and risks to biodiversity and eco­ systems when developing new renewable energy pro- jects starting from 2024 and thus avoid the majority of impacts and risks to our operations. We have not completed an assessment of how ­systemic risks to society have been considered in the assessment of biodiversity and ecosystems-­related risks yet. However, we have begun the work of under- standing the correlation of these risks, how they impact our projects, and what we can do to mitigate them. The assessment of our upstream value chain that was completed in 2022 using the Global ­Biodiversity Score tool is still relevant today. The results pro- vided an overview of impacts based on our most used ­materials (incl. minerals and metals) and how each material impacts the environment, focusing on biodiversity. The assessment did not include an assessment of how the biodiversity impacts from our upstream value chain affect local communities, but it did provide an essential first step in our work with the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN) frame- work and our progress towards being ready to set ­science-based targets for nature. Our continuous work to identify and mitigate ­potential impacts and risks of our assets to biodiversity and ecosystems continues to inform our DMA. In this pro- cess, we base the identification and scoring of IROs on the knowledge gathered across all our offshore and onshore assets, enabling a cross-business assessment of impacts, risks, dependencies, and opportunities. Management of impacts in our own operations At Ørsted, we have sites located in or near biodiversity-­ sensitive areas. However, our activities at these sites only have temporary negative impacts during the ­construction phase, with no material impacts during operations, cf. the outcome of our DMA. By following the steps of our new measurement framework, conducting environmental assessments, implementing appropriate mitigation measures, and applying our ‘Biodiversity policy’, we will be able to avoid any impacts related to the deterioration of biodiversity or natural habitats within our own operations. We adhere to the mitigation hierarchy in the develop- ment of new projects, prioritising to avoid biodiversity impacts wherever feasible. For impacts that ­cannot be entirely avoided, we focus on minimising and ­mitigating them to the extent possible. An example of this is avoiding sensitive habitats during the routing of and installation of cables for offshore projects. Post construction, any residual impacts that could not be fully mitigated are addressed through species-specific or habitat-specific restoration. These efforts aim to restore biodiversity and habitat functioning to at least pre-construction baseline levels and are our measures towards achieving a net-positive impact. This means that the majority of our impacts on bio­ diversity occur during the construction phase, and are appropriately mitigated, while during the operational phase, we have very limited impact on biodiversity that we are not able mitigate. One example of an impact that we are sometimes unable to mitigate during the operational phase of an offshore wind farm, which we have assessed as imma- terial, is the collision of airborne mobile species, such as birds or bats, with wind turbine blades. In cases where this impact cannot be mitigated through loca- tion or design, operational management plans are put in place, for example through enhanced monitor- ing campaigns, often in conjunction with local stake- holder groups. Vulnerable species and critical habitat types are iden- tified during the early screening phase of a project, allowing us to plan our project development around these factors, implementing the mitigation hierarchy and ensuring we are undertaking the actions needed to avoid and mitigate impacts on biodiversity. // // E4, SBM-3 Material impacts and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems Site locations in our own operations We have completed an assessment of all our opera- tional assets in collaboration with The Biodiversity Consultancy, using their Biodiversity Risk Screening Kit (BRiSK). This assessment focused on biodiversity- and ecosystem-related impacts, risks, dependencies, and opportunities at an asset level, helping us to better understand which sites are material in this respect. It takes a variety of factors into account that ­indicate impacts on biodiversity on a scale ranging from low over medium to high. These factors include species, designated areas (including protected areas and key biodiversity areas (KBAs)), ecoregion intactness, water pollution, and marine habitats, amongst others. The assessment highlights a list of matters, indicating that there are potential negative impacts on biodiver- sity if nothing is done to avoid or mitigate these. From that output, we have found that the majority of the identified risks have already been identified through our EIA or equivalent processes as well as mitigated as a part of our biodiversity action plans. Therefore, we are taking all necessary steps to limit risks and negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosys- tems at all our site locations. When we identify over- laps with e.g. an IUCN Red-listed species, an action plan is developed to ensure that we do no significant harm to this species, nor any threatened species, both during construction and the operational phase. 111 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E4"
"Site locations without material impacts In total, we have 63 operational sites across our portfolio of renewable energy assets (i.e. offshore and onshore wind, solar PV, and power stations) that currently overlap with or are adjacent to protected areas or KBAs. This is the majority of our assets and is connected to the fact that a buffer zone has been applied (25 km for offshore assets, 10 km for onshore assets), increasing the amount of overlaps with both protected areas and KBAs. Through our mitigation planning and restoration of impacts, we have found that we have no negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems at these sites. Site locations with temporary material impacts In addition to the operational sites, we had 12 assets under construction in 2024, which were identified as material sites that temporarily have activities nega- tively affecting biodiversity-sensitive areas. These sites are listed in the table on page 114 and include nine off- shore wind and three solar PV projects. At the offshore construction sites, biodiversity impacts were primarily associated with monopile piling, which generates noise pollution, and cable laying, which disrupts ­benthic and intertidal habitats. Additionally, the increased vessel traffic during construction caused further disruption to the ecosystem through noise pollution. For the solar PV assets under construction, ­biodiversity impacts were primarily due to land clearing and cable laying, which caused temporary habitat disruption and species displacement. Additionally, the ­operation of machinery contributed to noise pollution. All these impacts are appropriately managed or mitigated through implementation of measures agreed through impact assessment and permitting processes. We have found no negative impacts related to land degradation during the operational phase of our projects, including desertification or soil sealing. Any potential impacts on land degradation are mitigated during the construction phase. Material impacts in our value chain We have identified material negative impacts in our upstream value chain. These impacts are primarily direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss due to extrac- tion of natural resources and mining activities. Further- more, mining also has negative impacts on the extent and condition of ecosystems and thus impacts spe- cies diversity. As mentioned previously, we used the Global Biodiversity Score tool to obtain an overview of ­biodiversity- and ecosystems-related impacts in our upstream value chain, using global average data for our industry. We are dependent on mining of metals and minerals to expand the capacity of renewable energy assets, just as our peers in the industry. How- ever, we acknowledge the trade-offs of mining in the value chain, which we actively work towards manag- ing. As mentioned before, we are actively engaging with our tier 1 suppliers on their impacts on biodiver- sity, and we also continuously work towards gathering location-specific data on our upstream value chain. // // E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems Policy scope In 2024, we updated our ‘Biodiversity policy’, which applies to all sites owned and operated by Ørsted, including sites in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas. The policy addresses the direct impacts from our operations on biodiversity, ecosystem protection, and sustainable ocean practices. The scope of the policy covers all of Ørsted’s renewable energy assets, both offshore and onshore, and includes our initial steps towards addressing biodiversity in our value chain and the associated dependencies. More specifically, we engage with some of our tier 1 suppliers on their progress on working with biodiversity, similar to our approach with decarbonisation. Our biodiversity policy does not currently cover the impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems from e.g. raw material extraction in our upstream value chain. How- ever, we are committed to working with our suppliers through our ‘Supply chain sustainability programme’ on mitigating their impacts on biodiversity, where we are currently engaging with our tier 1 suppliers. Further tiers down in the value chain, it becomes more challenging to mitigate the inherent impacts on ­biodiversity and, on a broader scale, nature. Through our supplier dialogues and continued work towards a more sustainable supply chain, we aim to implement mitigating actions for biodiversity in our supply chain in the future. The objective of our policy is to outline the importance of biodiversity to Ørsted and how we believe that bio- diversity is a key part of a sustainable project life cycle. The policy also explains the steps we take to protect biodiversity throughout an asset’s life cycle, aiming to avoid potential impacts and risks to biodiversity – from planning and development, through construction, over operation and maintenance, and finally to the decom- missioning and potential repowering phases. Policy governance Accountability of the policy lies with the Chief Commercial Officer (CCO). To ensure that our policy is implemented and taken into account across our business, the policy includes an overview of the governance structure to support its implementation as well as specific third-party standards that support our work, e.g. the EU taxonomy for sustainable economic activities. Interests of key stakeholders Similar to the development of our biodiversity projects (see key actions below), we have also included key stakeholder concerns and interests into the scope of our biodiversity policy. For example, local communities, NGOs, and academia are included in the stakeholder engagement steps during the various phases of an asset’s life cycle. Management and mitigation hierarchy Our business model is to develop, construct, operate, and own renewable assets, and we are committed to doing this in an environmentally and socially sustain- able way. However, we recognise that expanding our operations also implies a greater pressure on ­natural ecosystems. Therefore, protecting and restoring these ecosystems must be part of the solution, and we remain fully committed to effectively manage our impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. Biodiversity management is an integral part of our business model and decision-making processes throughout the full life cycle of our projects. This ranges from early-stage site selection and planning, over project design, construction, operations, and eventually to decommissioning. 112 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E4"
"To understand and manage our impacts, we follow the mitigation hierarchy. This means we aim to avoid harmful action at the outset of an activity, mini- mise impacts, and take restorative measures where impacts cannot be avoided. We also compensate for any residual adverse impacts that cannot be restored – while recognising that certain environmental features are irreplaceable and therefore cannot be ­compensated. // // E4-3 Actions related to biodiversity and ecosystems During 2024, we have taken several steps towards meeting our ambition of net-positive energy projects from 2030 and pursuing our material opportunity and positive impact related to biodiversity restoration, research, and innovation. For several of our biodiversity pilot projects, we engage with local communities in our biodiversity- and ecosystems-related actions. This was for example the case with our Humber Estuary restoration project in the UK, which we completed in collaboration with the Yorkshire Wildlife Trust and Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust. The restoration of the Humber Estuary is an example of coastal ecosystem restoration, a nature- based solution that contributes to the sequestration of carbon, while also restoring the natural habitat to improve biodiversity. We have not yet incorporated indigenous knowledge into our actions; however, this is integrated in our new ‘Biodiversity measurement framework’ and will be done going forward. As of 2024, we have not incorporated biodiversity offsets in our actions for any of our assets or across other operations. Key actions Launching our biodiversity measurement framework In 2024, we publicly launched our biodiversity meas- urement framework. This science-based framework contributes to the achievement of our biodiversity ambition by taking the first steps to ensure that we can measure, track, and report both the positive and negative impacts on biodiversity. The scope ­covers our biodiversity activities for our own operations across all geographies. Building on the momentum of the launch of our frame- work, we have worked with the World Economic Forum (WEF) to launch the Responsible Renewables Infrastructure initiative (RRI). This initiative aims to bring together the renewable energy industry to build a collective approach for assessing the industry’s impacts on biodiversity and local communities. The first version of these impact pathway initiatives are expected to be completed in 2025, which will prompt further development of the measurement frameworks that are to be developed. Going forward, we will continue to work with the WEF RRI ­coalition on building an approach to measure impacts on biodiver- sity from renewable energy projects. Piloting net-positive solutions Firstly, we have also progressed on the continuous monitoring across our biodiversity pilot projects. Our global portfolio of innovative projects contributes with learnings to enhance nature and thereby to achieve our net-positive ambition. In Taiwan, for example, we have cultivated corals in labs since 2021 with the purpose of growing them on offshore wind turbines, and we finalised preparations in 2024 and are ready to deploy the first ones as pilots on some of the foundations at the Greater Changhua 1 Offshore Wind Farm in 2025. Secondly, at our offshore wind site Borssele in the Netherlands, we placed cod pipes to simulate reefs in 2022. This year, we published a paper based on 2023 research (together with Wageningen University), which found the cod pipes to be highly successful in improving the local cod population. These monitoring activities provide valuable learnings and proof of the effectiveness of our initiatives. Thirdly, we have developed a new method to install offshore wind foundations, reducing noise levels by up to 99 %. It represents one of the greatest advance- ments yet in protective measures for marine life and thereby significantly contributes to bringing down the temporary negative impact during construction activities. The new technology has been successfully tested in Germany at the offshore wind farm Gode Wind 3. Once industrialised, expectedly in 2030, it can also provide a more efficient and cost-effective installation. Other actions Science Based Targets Network (SBTN) We have also completed the first two of the five steps of SBTN’s methodology to better understand how to prioritise our efforts in managing our impacts on nature, including biodiversity. The steps are based on locating impacts on nature, including ­biodiversity, across our upstream value chain and on locating direct impacts. Based on this initial assessment (step 1), we prioritise our top impacts to assess which we should work towards setting science-based targets for (step 2). Step 3 consists of measuring a baseline across impacts, which is then used to set time-bound targets. Going forward, we will work towards setting targets for nature and biodiversity. // // E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems Delivering on our biodiversity ambition In 2021, we adopted an ambition to achieve a net-­ positive biodiversity impact from all new renewable energy projects that are commissioned from 2030 and onwards. We are on track to meet this ambition with the launch of our biodiversity measurement frame- work in 2024, which allows us to start setting ­baselines for priority biodiversity features for upcoming assets and providing the means for us to effectively measure net gains and losses on biodiversity. Currently, we have not adopted any targets for biodiver­sity that follows the mandatory minimum ­disclosure requirements defined in ESRS 2. We are in the process of utilising the methodology from SBTN to map out where our main impacts are across our own operations and upstream value chain on nature (with a broader scope beyond biodiversity). Once this work is complete, we will proceed with setting targets for biodiversity. // 113 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E4"
"Country Asset Asset type Area (hectare) Applied buffer zone (km) Overlap with KBAs (number) Overlap with protected areas (number) Impacts during construction Germany Borkum Riffgrund 3 Offshore wind 7,500 25 0 4 Piling, cable laying, vessel traffic, noise pollution, sedimentation, temporary displacement of species, and temporary disturbances to habitats. Gode Wind 3 Offshore wind 1,800 25 1 7 The US Revolution Wind Offshore wind 33,500 25 1 52 South Fork Wind Offshore wind 5,500 25 0 1 Taiwan Greater Changhua 1 Offshore wind 10,900 25 0 0 Greater Changhua 2a Offshore wind 5,900 25 0 0 Greater Changhua 2b Offshore wind 6,700 25 0 0 Greater Changhua 4 Offshore wind 11,700 25 0 0 The US Sparta Solar Onshore solar 1,051 10 0 0 Land clearing, temporary disturbances to habitats, temporary displacement of species, cable laying, operating machinery, and noise pollution. Mockingbird Onshore solar 2,086 10 0 3 Old 300 Onshore solar 1,410 10 0 3 Badger Wind Onshore wind 12,600 10 0 4 Site locations with temporary material impacts As described in the overview with our material impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs), we have two material impacts within our own operations, both related to assets under construction during 2024. We temporarily impact protected areas negatively and risk disturbance to habitats and displacement or loss of species. The name of the sites, the size of them, including the buffer zones, and the number of ­protected areas are listed in the table. § Accounting policies During our DMA, we concluded that we have material impacts on biodiversity, which happen during the construction phase of our projects. Therefore, the data presented in this table represents material sites with construction activities in 2024 where overlaps are present. The biodiversity data covers offshore and onshore wind farms and solar farms as well as their cable routes within the buffer zones. For offshore wind farms, a buffer zone of 25 km is applied, whereas the buffer zone is 10 km for onshore wind and solar farms. These buffers have been determined based on best practice rooted in science and to recognise relevant interactions with protected areas for nature conservation or key biodiversity areas. Data is recognised from the date of the final investment decision (FID), and the area in hectare is showed for the asset in its entirety. The data is sourced from the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) using the buffer zones mentioned above for offshore and onshore assets, respectively. The tool provides an output report in which a summarised number of overlaps with protected areas and key biodiversity areas is presented. This number represents any overlaps that should occur within the project site itself and within the buffer zone. // E4, SBM-3; E4-5 114 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E4"
"Alignment with TNFD recommendations Recommended disclosures a)  Describe the board’s oversight of nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks, and opportunities. MR Corporate governance · pages 44-52 b)  Describe management’s role in assessing and managing nature-related dependen- cies, impacts, risks, and opportunities. MR Corporate governance · pages 44-52 c)  Describe the organisation’s human rights policies and engagement activities as well as oversight by the board and management, with respect to Indigenous Peoples, local communities, affected and other stakeholders in the organisation’s assessment of, and response to, nature- related dependencies, impacts, risks, and opportunities. SUS Interests and views of stakeholders · pages 75-76 Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 108-114 Resource use and circular economy · pages 116-122 Affected communities · pages 145-151 Governance a)  Describe the nature-related dependen- cies, impacts, risks, and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium, and long term. SUS Double materiality assessment · pages 67-74 Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 108-114 Resource use and circular economy · pages 116-122 b)  Describe the effect that nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks, and oppor- tunities have had on the organisation’s business model, value chain, strategy, and financial planning as well as any transition plans or analysis in place. SUS Our business model and how we create value · page 65 Our strategy and impact on sustainability matters · page 66 Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 109-110 Resource use and circular economy · pages 117 c)  Describe the resilience of the organisa- tion’s strategy to nature-related risks and opportunities, taking into consideration different scenarios. MR Enterprise risk management · pages 27-30 SUS Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 108-114 Resource use and circular economy · pages 116-122 d)  Disclose the locations of assets or activities in the organisation’s direct operations and, where possible, upstream and downstream value chain(s) that meet the criteria for priority locations. MR Our footprint · page 14 SUS Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 108-114 Resource use and circular economy · pages 116-122 Strategy a)  i. Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying, assessing, and prioritising nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks, and opportunities in its direct operations. ii. Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying, assessing, and prioritising nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks, and opportunities in its upstream and downstream value chain(s). MR Enterprise risk management · pages 27-30 SUS Double materiality assessment · pages 67-74 b)  Describe the organisation’s processes for monitoring nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks, and opportunities. MR Enterprise risk management · pages 27-30 SUS Double materiality assessment · pages 67-74 Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 108-114 Resource use and circular economy · pages 116-122 c)  Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, prioritising, and monitoring nature-related risks are integrated into and inform the organisation’s overall risk management processes. MR Enterprise risk management · pages 27-30 SUS Double materiality assessment · pages 67-74 Risk and impact management a)  Disclose the metrics used by the ­organisation to assess and manage material nature-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. MR Strategic ambitions · page 6 SUS Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 108-114 Resource use and circular economy · pages 116-122 b)  Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess and manage dependencies and impacts on nature. MR Strategic ambitions · page 6 SUS Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 108-114 Resource use and circular economy · pages 116-122 c)  Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate- related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. MR Strategic ambitions · page 6 SUS Biodiversity and ecosystems · pages 108-114 Resource use and circular economy · pages 116-122 Metrics and targets MR Management’s review SUS Sustainability statements 115 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E4"
"Own operations Upstream value chain Positive impact Negative impact Risk Opportunity //ESRS 2, SBM-3 Our material impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) E5 Resource use and circular economy Use and depletion of virgin materials Negative impact Materials wasted during construction, operations, and decommissioning Negative impact Dependence on scarce critical raw materials Risk 116 Sustainability statements | Environment ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | ESRS E5"
"E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies SUS · pages 88-90 E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation SUS · pages 91-92 E1-5 Energy consumption and mix SUS · pages 93, 102 E1-6 Gross scope 1, 2, 3, and total GHG emissions SUS · pages 94-95 Entity-specific data points · Energy consumption and mix · Gross scope 1, 2, 3, and total GHG emissions · Overview by country · Renewable capacity · Generation capacity · Energy business drivers · Energy generation and sales · Total heat and power generation by source SUS · pages 93-95, 97-102 E4-1 Transition plan and conside- ration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model SUS · page 110 E4, SBM-3 (ESRS 2) Material impacts, risks, and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model SUS · pages 111-112, 114 E4, IRO-1 (ESRS 2) Description of processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem- related impacts, risks, depend- encies, and opportunities SUS · pages 110-111 E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems SUS · pages 112-113 E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems SUS · page 113 E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems SUS · page 113 E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change SUS · page 114 Environmental standards ESRS E4 · Biodiversity and ecosystems Environmental standards ESRS E5 · Resource use and circular economy E5, IRO-1 (ESRS 2) Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks, and opportunities SUS · page 118 E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy SUS · page 118 E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy SUS · pages 118-120 E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy SUS · page 120 E5-4 Resource inflows SUS · page 121 E5-5 Resource outflows SUS · page 122 Environmental standards ESRS E1 · Climate change (incl. incorporation by reference) Value chain illustration Visualisation of our material impacts, risks, and opportunities (IROs) resulting from our DMA Transition plan Resilience of our strategy and business model to our IROs (for E1 and E4) Actions Actions taken in the reporting year and planned for the future, where relevant, to address our IROs Further details of our IROs Tables describing the IROs and how we manage them (incl. link to strategy and business model) Policies and approaches Relevant policies per topic and approaches to e.g. stakeholder engagement (for S1, S2, and S3) Targets Targets adopted to track effectiveness of our policies and actions (if applicable) Metrics Performance data, primarily disclosed in data tables, including accounting policies Structure of the ESRS topics in our report Each topical chapter in the ‘Environment’ and ‘Social’ sections follow the below structure: E1, GOV-3 (ESRS 2) Integration of sustainability- related performance in incentive schemes REM · page 7 · Performance of the Executive Board SUS · pages 88, 134 E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation SUS · pages 83-85 E1, SBM-3 (ESRS 2) Material impacts, risks, and opportunities, and their interaction with strategy and business model SUS · pages 82, 85-88 E1, IRO-1 (ESRS 2) Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks, and opportunities SUS · pages 85-88 E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation SUS · page 88 61 Sustainability statements | General ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
"S2, SBM-2 (ESRS 2) Interests and views of stakeholders SUS · page 75 S2, SBM-3 (ESRS 2) Material impacts, risks, and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model SUS · pages 138-139 S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers SUS · pages 139-140 S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts SUS · pages 140-141 S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns SUS · pages 141-142 S1-14 Health and safety metrics SUS · page 136 S1-16 Compensation metrics (pay gap and total compensation) SUS · pages 134-135 S1-17 Incidents, complaints, and severe human rights impacts SUS · page 129 Entity-specific data points · People · Group Executive Team and Board of Directors · Diversity and pay gap · Safety SUS · page 133-136 Social standards ESRS S2 · Workers in the value chain S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those actions SUS · pages 140-143 S2-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities SUS · page 143 Entity-specific data points Supply chain due diligence SUS · page 144 G1, GOV-1 (ESRS 2) The role of the administrative, supervisory, and management bodies MR · pages 46-49, 52 G1, IRO-1 (ESRS 2) Description of the pro- cesses to identify and assess material impacts, risks, and opportunities SUS · page 155 G1-5 Political influence and lobbying activites SUS · pages 155-156 Entity-specific data points Whistleblower cases SUS · page 156 S3, SBM-2 (ESRS 2) Interests and views of stakeholders SUS · page 75 S3, SBM-3 (ESRS 2) Material impacts, risks, and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model SUS · pages 146-148 S3-1 Policies related to affected communities SUS · pages 148-149 S3-2 Processes for engaging with affected communities about impacts SUS · pages 149-150 S3-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for affected communities to raise concerns SUS · page 150 S3-4 Taking action on material impacts on affected commu- nities, and approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material oppor- tunities related to affected communities, and effective- ness of those actions SUS · pages 149-151 S3-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities SUS · page 151 Social standards ESRS S3 · Affected communities Governance standards ESRS G1 · Business conduct (incl. incorporation by reference) S1-4 Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effec- tiveness of those actions SUS · pages 128-129 S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities SUS · pages 131-132 S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees SUS · pages 133, 135 S1-9 Diversity metrics SUS · page 135 Social standards ESRS S1 · Own workforce S1, SBM-2 (ESRS 2) Interests and views of stakeholders SUS · page 75 S1, SBM-3 (ESRS 2) Material impacts, risks, and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model SUS · pages 125-126 S1-1 Policies related to own workforce SUS · pages 126-129 S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives about impacts SUS · pages 129-131 S1-3 Processes to remediate nega- tive impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns SUS · page 131 62 Sustainability statements | General ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
"Sustainability governance // ESRS 2, GOV-1 Our sustainability governance enables us to deliver on sustainability matters. In 2024, we redesigned our sustainability governance. The new set-up ensures clear executive accountability for our sustainability matters and stronger ownership of material sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities throughout Ørsted. The new governance was approved by our Group Executive Team in 2024 and will be fully implemented in 2025. Board of Directors Ørsted’s Board of Directors is the highest governing body for sustainability. The Board ultimately approves the strategic direction and targets, oversees our per- formance on material sustainability impacts, risk, opportunities (IROs), and approves the double materi- ality assesssment (DMA) results annually. // // ESRS 2, GOV-1 and GOV-2 The Board is presented with a progress update annually across material IROs and strategic priorities and targets, and engages in deep dives on sustainability topics, when needed. // // ESRS 2, GOV-1 As a whole, the Board possesses expertise across our material sustainability IROs. Based on the seven ESRS topics that have been assessed as material to Ørsted through our DMA, we have mapped the Board’s sustainability competences to ensure that they have the relevant expertise to oversee material sustainability matters. For more details, see pages 46-48 in the ­management’s review. Audit & Risk Committee The Audit & Risk Committee reports to the Board of Directors. The committee is responsible for the integrity and statutory compliance of Ørsted’s CSRD reporting. The Audit & Risk Committee meets six times a year and annually reviews our CSRD reporting, including the DMA results, before the Board of Directors approves it. For description of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, the Asset Project Committee, and Internal Audit, please see page 49. Group Executive Team The Group Executive Team steers and approves the strategic direction on sustainability and is account- able for oversight and performance on material ­sustainability IROs. Ørsted’s Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) has the over- all responsibility for ensuring that the business delivers on our sustainability targets and actions, in line with our sustainability ambition. Our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is responsible for our sustainable finance report- ing, including our CSRD reporting. // // ESRS 2, GOV-1 Our sustainability governance model Board of Directors Business functions Support functions Group Executive Team ESRS topic Group Executive Team accountable person | Supportive decision forums E1 Climate change COO | Decarbonisation Core Group E2 Pollution* COO | QHSE Committee E3 Water and marine resources* COO | QHSE Committee E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems CCO | Biodiversity & Community Impact Core Group E5 Resources and circular economy COO | Decarbonisation Core Group S1 Own workforce (excl. safety) CHRO | People & Culture Leadership S1 Own workforce (safety) COO | QHSE Committee S2 Workers in the value chain COO | Human Rights Task Force S3 Affected communities CCO | Biodiversity & Community Impact Core Group G1 Business conduct Head of Legal** | Compliance Committee Nomination & Remuneration Committee Asset Project Committee Audit & Risk Committee Internal Audit * The ESRS topics E2 and E3 are immaterial according to our DMA results in 2024. ** Responsibility delegated to group management team level as ‘Business conduct’ overlaps with existing mandate in the department Group Legal. 63 Sustainability statements | General ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
"// ESRS 2, GOV-1 and GOV-2 The Group Executive Team discusses material sustain- ability IROs twice a year. They approve our strategic direction and targets on sustainability, including links to our corporate strategy, and are accountable for our performance ambitions on sustainability topics. The Group Executive Team discusses and reviews the DMA ahead of the Board of Directors’ approval as well as performance on material sustainability matters and progress towards targets. The Group Executive Team has always considered material sustainability matters when ­overseeing our corporate strategy, and going forward, the IROs resulting from our DMA will further inform their decision-­making and support that the IROs are con- sistently considered in decisions, ranging from what we source to how we develop, construct, operate, and decommission our projects. The material IROs addressed during the year are described in the topical ESRS chapters under the actions section. // // ESRS 2, GOV-1 As a whole, the Group Executive Team possesses expertise across our material IROs. For more details, see page 52 in the management’s review. Group Executive Team accountable persons In 2024, we strengthened the Group Executive Team’s accountability for sustainability and delegated accountability of material sustainability areas to individual members of the Group Executive Team in alignment with the sustainability topics defined in the ESRS standards. The new governance integrates responsibility into the line organisation in Ørsted to ensure a focused set-up with a strong mandate to execute on sustainability topics. The new accountable persons in the Group Executive Team are individually accountable for driving progress on the assigned sustainability topic according to road- maps, including defining key actions and allocating resources to secure progress on targets and ambitions. They will be supported by supportive decision forums as well as internal experts from the support functions on sustainability topics. Supportive decision forums The Decarbonisation Core Group and the ­Biodiversity & Community Impact Core Group will support the accountable persons in the Group Executive Team in delivering on our strategic sustainability priority areas. The two new groups will kick off in 2025 and consist of the Group Executive Team accountable person and senior leaders from functional areas with a clear role in delivering on the material sustainability matters. The groups have a tactical responsibility and decide on new sustainability initiatives needed to deliver on our ambitions and targets, guide implementation in the organisation, and act on IROs. The core groups will meet two-three times a year or pending need. We are in the process of establishing a human rights task force, specifically focused on strengthening our due diligence systems to ensure compliance with the upcoming EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (CSDDD). The task force will enable the implementation of a human rights management ­system and oversee its integration into relevant business processes to reach compliance. The task force will kick off in 2025 and consist of the Group Executive Team accountable person as well as senior leaders representing Ørsted’s value chain to ensure the value chain-wide approach of integrating human rights into management systems and processes. The task force will meet twice a year. The Compliance Committee monitors compliance with laws, rules, standards, and internal codes of conduct for all business areas. The QHSE Committee oversees our quality, health, safety, and environment (QHSE) priorities and has a special focus on these aspects in relation to sustainability topics. Business functions The business functions are responsible for executing on material sustainability IROs. They deliver concrete actions on the ground to progress on our targets and ambitions while managing risks and capturing performance data. Support functions The key support functions are Corporate Strategy, Global Sustainability, and Group Finance. The support functions assist all the accountable persons in ­facilitating the sustainability work and oversight and guides and enables the accountable persons in the Group Executive Team and the business in setting ambition levels and delivering on sustainability matters. // // ESRS 2, GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls In preparation for the CSRD, a plan was estab- lished to perform walkthroughs to identify risks, reassess existing controls, and identify additional controls for sustainability reporting. This initiative started in 2024 and will continue until the end of 2025. These walkthroughs of sustainability reporting processes were priori- tised based on the results of the DMA performed in 2023 with reference to the draft ESRS. Priority is given to the quantitative data points related to our material ESRS topics. The walkthroughs are facilitated by the Internal Control Assurance team (second line of defence) in collaboration with functions involved in the sustainability reporting processes and data collection processes. The risks associated with the completeness, accuracy, and timeliness of the data as well as results of estimations and calculations are assessed based on materiality of the individual data points and process complexity. The walkthrough of the ESRS ‘E1 Climate change’ topic was finalised in 2024. It was con- firmed that main risks in data collection and reporting processes for material data points within this area have been mitigated by rele- vant controls. Some controls required formal- isation, which has been completed in 2024. Since January 2025, formalised controls for this area have been included in our ‘Internal con- trol framework’ for financial and sustainability reporting processes to further monitor their design and operating effectiveness. The Audit & Risk Committee monitors our ­sustainability reporting processes, including the plans for improvements, risks, internal controls, and their operating effectiveness. // 64 Sustainability statements | General ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
"Our business model and how we create value // ESRS 2, SBM-1 We create value by developing, constructing, ­operating, and owning renewable assets and by providing sustainable energy products to our ­customers. Our portfolio includes offshore and onshore wind farms, solar farms, energy storage, and CHP plants. Key inputs and what we depend on Natural resources Our business relies on natural resources, such as wind and sun, for our assets to generate the renewable energy we sell to our customers. To deliver on our renewable capacity target, we also depend on materials such as steel and copper and on critical raw materials. We secure those inputs through volume agreements and a thorough process for vetting new suppliers. Human and financial capitals We depend on human capital through our talented 8,000+ employees, working to create value every day while adhering to our core values. Our business model depends on financial capital where our partnership model plays a key role in recycling cash flow through farm-downs. Stakeholder relationships We depend on political support for the continued renewable energy build-out, and we rely on a construc- tive dialogue with authorities, suppliers, investors, and joint venture partners. Key outputs and benefits created Customers We help countries and companies meet their climate targets. We enter into long-term agreements to give customers certainty about the costs and origin of their renewable power supply. Communities We ensure people in the regions where we operate benefit from and support the build-out of renewable energy, thereby driving a lasting, positive change for communities. Shareholders We will invest in value-creating growth opportunities and operate our portfolio in a cost-effective way to create value for our shareholders. Employees We ensure a safe and inclusive workplace focused on employees’ skills development and their well-being. Our business model in relation to sustainability We have made it a core commitment to develop, construct, and operate our renewable assets in an environmentally and socially sustainable way, which helps de-risk projects, enhance our license to operate, and drive a lasting, positive change for society. // · Natural resources · Human capital · Financial capital · Stakeholder relationships Develop Secure pipeline through land and project rights, grid access, and permits Construct Thorough supplier selection and local content adherence Operate Ensure high availability and balance power to the grid Own Manage and optimise our asset portfolio and partnerships · Customers · Communities · Shareholders · Employees Key inputs and what we depend on Activities in our business model Key outputs and benefits created 65 Sustainability statements | General ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
"Our strategy and impact on sustainability matters // ESRS 2, SBM-1 We develop, construct, and operate our renewable energy assets in an environmentally and socially sustainable way. We work continuously to integrate sustainability into our strategy and business model and to respond to the main challenges and opportunities ahead of us and in our industry. We have three strategic sustainability priorities – decarbon- isation, biodiversity, and community impact – which play an enabling role in our commercial and project ­delivery. These priorities were confirmed by the result of our 2024 double materiality assessment (DMA) and reflect where strategic value is gained in our business model by creating positive impacts on nature and society. At the same time, we acknowledge the aspects of our strategy and business model that bring vulnerabilities and risks. Renewable energy requires significant amounts of natural resources, such as steel, with negative impacts on climate and the environment. The build-out also affects people and local communities. We therefore focus our efforts on making sure that we mitigate negative impacts while creating positive impacts by decarbonising societies, helping to protect nature, and making sure the build-out brings benefits to people, workers, and local communities. // We develop, construct, and operate renewable energy assets at scale Strategic sustainability priorities // ESRS 2, SBM-1 Key elements of our strategy that impact sustainability matters Resources · Use of virgin and scarce raw materials · Energy- and emissions-intensive supply chain · Vulnerable supply chain workers Land and sea space · Renewable energy capacity build-out should co-exist with nature · Ecosystem and biodiversity impacts from our supply chain Public and political support · Local resistance to renewable energy assets · Political opposition to and lack of support for renewable energy build-out How we respond to these challenges Decarbonisation (ESRS E1 and E5) Optimise the use of resources and energy and reduce GHG emissions · Collaboration with suppliers to decarbonise materials and processes · Roadmaps to decarbonise key resources and processes · Partnerships to improve recyclability of our renewable energy assets Biodiversity (ESRS E4) Protect and preserve nature and reduce direct impact drivers of biodiversity loss · Application of our measurement framework and the mitigation hierarchy · Site monitoring and action plans, including positive impact efforts Community impact (ESRS S3) Ensure people in the regions where we operate benefit from and support the build-out · Engagement and ongoing dialogue with affected communities · Integration of affected communities’ perspectives in project planning phase Foundational sustainability areas Main challenges Human rights (ESRS S1, S2, S3) · Human rights due diligence · Risk-based audits and supplier assessments Health and safety (ESRS S1, S2) · High focus on safety measures · Recurring safety training and awareness campaigns People management, diversity and inclusion (ESRS S1) · Employee engagement · Inclusive workplace · Flexible working conditions Business conduct (ESRS G1) · Good business conduct policy and training · Grievance mechanisms · Climate advocacy (political engagement) 66 Sustainability statements | General ØRSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2024"
