"186 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT TOPIC IMPACT MATERIALITY FINANCIAL MATERIALITY DESCRIPTION OF THE IMPACT TYPE OF IMPACT (POSITIVE/ NEGATIVE) ACTUAL/ POTENTIAL TIME HORIZON SOURCE OF IMPACT (UPSTREAM/ OWN OPERATION/ DOWNSTREAM) RISKS SOURCE OF RISK (UPSTREAM/ OWN OPERATION/ DOWNSTREAM) OPPORTUNITY SOURCE OF OPPORTUNITY (UPSTREAM/ OWN OPERATION/ DOWNSTREAM) Entity specific: Quality, security and continuity of the electricity service Ensuring service quality through continuous infrastructure maintenance and grid adequacy Positive Actual Medium- Term Own operations - - Entity specific: Innovation and digitalisation Promotion of 'Open Innovation' through structured collaborations with start- ups, research institutions and universities to develop innovative technologies to support sustainable transition Positive Potential Medium- Term Own operations - Reduction of operating costs through the development of innovative technologies – including through structured partnerships with start-ups (“Open Innovation”) – with the aim of monitoring weather events and boosting the resilience of the NTG. Own operations Continuous improvement of efficiency and quality of service through innovative technologies aimed at automation and digitalisation of processes Positive Potential Medium- Term Own operations - Expansion of business through patentability of innovative technology solutions Own operations Entity specific: Cybersecurity Increased security of the Group's business processes (e.g. electricity system resilience) through effective defence measures against digital attacks Positive Potential Medium- Term Upstream Own operations Downstream Computer fraud (e.g. Social Engineering) Own operation - Compliance with NIS Directive 2 (Network and Information Security) Own operation Cyber Attack Own operation In pursuing the realisation of the energy transition, favouring the transition to a zero-carbon economy, the Group’s activities generate systemic benefits that can positively influence the environment and the community as a whole. The Group’s widespread presence throughout the country not only has a direct impact on its own workforce, value chain workers and customers, both through its operations and through its business relationships77, but also extends to the local communities affected by operations related to the construction and maintenance of assets and to the natural capital they host. The complexity of the operating environment, fuelled by the need to balance business objectives with the impacts of its activities on society and the environment, requires great responsibility that the Group has committed itself to addressing through a Just Transition approach. The ambition is to achieve an energy transition that is also fair and inclusive, taking into account the possible social effect and impact. With this in mind, starting with the Industrial Plan 2024-2028, the Terna Group has chosen to integrate a Sustainability Plan within the Industrial Plan that aims to manage material impacts, risks and opportunities, orienting the Company’s strategy towards the creation of value over time. 77 For more details on the nature of the Group’s business activities and relationships, please refer to that which is reported in response to ESRS 2, SBM-1. OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"214 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT The control model for sustainability Statement is methodologically based on the framework developed by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (so-called ‘CoSO Report’), which, in March 2023, published a specific supplementary guide dedicated to sustainability reporting, entitled ‘Achieving Effective Internal Control of Sustainability Reporting (ICSR)’. Consistent with the principles of the CoSO Report, the SCIIS management process is structured into the following main phases: • Scoping; • Analysis of risks and controls; • Monitoring; • Assessment and reporting. The identification of the areas of greatest risk for the sustainability statement is carried out as part of the scoping phase through a risk/materiality analysis of the data (KPIs) included in the Terna Group’s Consolidated Sustainability Statement, based on assessment drivers that take into account endogenous and exogenous risk factors. For the KPIs assessed to be of higher risk/materiality and for the Group companies that contribute significantly to them, an additional risk analysis is carried out, according to a top-down, risk-based approach, concerning the business processes from which these KPIs originate. In particular, risk analysis at the process level consists of identifying events that may compromise the qualitative characteristics (relevance, faithful representation, comparability, verifiability and understandability) that the data and information presented in the Consolidated Sustainability Statement prepared in accordance with the ESRS standards must fulfil. In this area, the assessments carried out highlighted the following main categories of risk: (i) completeness and integrity of data; (ii) availability and timeliness of data; (iii) traceability of data; (iv) authorisation of data and information; and (v) compliance with relevant legislation. The following main types of controls are envisaged in order to properly monitor these risks: • approval and management review controls; • data reconciliation checks; • consistency checks of the Consolidated Sustainability Statement with respect to the relevant ESRS; • logical access controls and traceability of operations performed on the system used for the Consolidated Sustainability Statement; • consistency checks by analysing the variance of data within the time series available. It should also be noted that the process of collecting and consolidating sustainability data and information and drafting the Consolidated Sustainability Statement is supported by the use of an IT application that represents a further integral risk mitigation factor that enables structured data collection flows, automatic controls and monitoring dashboards. A further general element of risk mitigation on Consolidated Sustainability Statement is represented by the Terna Group’s ‘control environment’, consisting of the set of ‘ethical values’ and cultural values, the governance and organisational model, the Leadership style exercised by Senior Management and Management, and by the personnel management policies, aimed at establishing a general context designed to ensure that process activities are carried out and controlled in accordance with the principles and objectives defined by management. The SCIIS provides for a periodic assessment phase of the adequacy of the design and effective application of the controls of which it is composed. The results of these assessments are analysed and evaluated by management in order to define, where appropriate, corrective actions to be implemented in the relevant processes. In this context, a system of ‘chain’ certifications was implemented by Terna’s management and the delegated administrative bodies of the consolidated OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"232 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT Climate change [ESRS E1] Strategy Terna Group’s decarbonisation process As Italy’s national grid operator, Terna plays a central role in Italy’s energy transition process. Its sustainability and decarbonisation strategy is not only required by global climate change objectives and Italy’s international commitments; indeed, it marks a strategic choice that responds to a long-term vision, in which the electricity system becomes the main driver of energy transformation. The Group has always operated with the aim of ensuring a safe, reliable and efficient electricity system, while reducing its environmental impact and actively contributing to combat climate change. Over the years, Terna Group has adopted a series of concrete initiatives and strategic investments aimed at promoting environmental sustainability, ensuring efficient grid management and facilitating the integration of renewable energy into the system. By developing advanced technologies, digitalising infrastructures and adopting increasingly innovative operating models, the Company is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions, while contributing to the decarbonisation of the entire National Electricity System. Terna Group’s sustainability strategy is built on solid foundations, based on a thorough understanding of its strategic role and its responsibility towards the environment and the community. The Company has invested considerable resources in the modernisation of the transmission grid, in order to optimise the integration capacity of renewable energies and reduce grid losses, which are two key aspects for achieving national and European climate change objectives. The Group has also developed and is currently developing innovative tools for smart grid management, exploiting the potential of new digital technologies and automation solutions to increase operational efficiency and improve the resilience of the electricity system. The adoption of sophisticated real-time monitoring and control systems optimises management of the energy flow, promoting a more effective use of available renewable sources and reducing the need for more polluting energy sources. These initiatives have contributed and still contribute directly to improving, year after year, the national production energy mix and the related CO2 emission factor. At company level, this aspect is confirmed by the constant decrease in emissions associated with grid losses, which account for more than 90% of the Group’s total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and which move in the same direction as the national emission factor, with the same grid losses (indeed, these emissions are the product of grid losses and the national emission factor, expected to be a zero factor thanks to the integration of renewables - and will correspond to zero grid loss emissions). In order to confirm its commitment to combating climate change, Terna Group has adopted Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission reduction targets in line with the Paris Agreement’s trajectory, and a Scope 3 emission reduction target, all validated and certified by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), an internationally recognised framework for setting emission reduction targets in line with the latest scientific evidence. With respect to the Scope 3 emission reduction target, the Group is currently adjusting the scope of the target to bring it in line with the applicable legislation. The main initiatives implemented by the Group to achieve these targets include, first and foremost, the above- mentioned capital expenditure to integrate renewable sources into the Italian electricity system and the digitalisation of grid infrastructure, in addition to the optimisation of operating processes by adopting more efficient and sustainable technologies and improving the energy efficiency of its facilities. Terna’s approach to decarbonisation is not limited solely to reducing its own direct emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2). Indeed, it also includes the commitment to reduce indirect emissions along the value chain (Scope 3), through targeted engagement actions with suppliers, industrial partners and relevant stakeholders. With a view to constantly raise its ambition in combating climate change, when publishing the 2024-2028 Industrial Plan update in March 2025, the Group officially announced its commitment to the Science Based Targets Initiative to define a net zero target within two years. E1-1 > OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"230 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT Share of OpEx derived from products or services associated with economic activities aligned with the Taxonomy - 2024 Disclosure (figures in €m)101 2024 FINANCIAL YEAR YEAR SUBSTANTIAL CONTRIBUTION CRITERIA DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM CRITERIA ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES CODE OPEX SHARE OF OPEX FOR 2024 CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES CIRCULAR ECONOMY POLLUTION BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES CIRCULAR ECONOMY POLLUTION BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS MINIMUM SAFEGUARDS SHARE OF TAXONOMY-ALIGNED (A.1.) OR ELIGIBLE (A.2.) OPEX IN 2023 CATEGORY OF ENABLING ACTIVITY CATEGORY OF TRANSITION-RELATED ACTIVITY €m % YES/NO NE/E YES/NO NE/E YES/NO NE/E YES/NO NE/E YES/NO NE/E YES/NO NE/E YES/NO YES/NO YES/NO YES/NO YES/NO YES/NO YES/NO % A T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Electricity transmission and distribution CCM 4.9 150 95% Yes NE/E NE/E NE/E NE/E NE/E No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 95% A OpEx for environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 150 95% 97% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 95% of which enabling 150 95% 97% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes A of which transition-related 0 0% A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned) Manufacture, installation, and servicing of high, medium and low voltage electrical equipment for electrical transmission and distribution that result in or enable a substantial contribution to climate change mitigation CCM 3.20 7 4% Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology CCM 4.1 0 0% Electricity transmission and distribution CCM 4.9 0 0% Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy technologies CCM 7.6 1 1% Professional services related to the energy performance of buildings CCM 9.3 0 0% OpEx for Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) 8 5% 3% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% A. OpEx for Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2) 158 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 95% B. NON-TAXONOMY ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES OpEx for non-Taxonomy eligible activities 0 0% Total (A+B) 158 100% Percentage of eligibility and alignment for each environmental objective (OpEx KPI) SHARE OF OPEX/TOTAL OPEX TAXONOMY-ALIGNED BY OBJECTIVE TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE BY OBJECTIVE CCM 95% 100% CCA 0% 0% WTR 0% 0% CE 0% 0% PPC 0% 0% BIO 0% 0% 101 The way in which information is presented may be revised subsequent to regulatory clarifications. OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"236 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT With respect to the guidelines to control the Energy Management System, in compliance with the UNI CEI EN ISO/IEC 50001:2018 standard, and the downstream impact of the double materiality assessment, the Group undertakes to: • implement the Energy Management System, proposing energy efficiency initiatives, in accordance with the indications of the energy manager; • focus on energy saving and efficiency right from the procurement of the company’s external resources by considering these aspects when defining the technical specifications for the purchase of machinery, equipment, raw materials and services; • apply efficiency principles to all energy aspects involving the group companies, such as the use of office machinery, lighting, cooling and heating systems and processing methods; • encourage the use of products (e.g., PCs and printers) with eco-design and a certified energy footprint (with product labels); • promote the compatible and efficient use of means of transport to achieve minimum consumption targets for their vehicles; • monitor and control the energy consumption of sites and facilities, encouraging the implementation of the actions necessary to improve the energy performance of the sites and the related energy efficiency class; • plan work activities with a view to energy efficiency, where possible and in any case guaranteeing the continuity of processes; • raise awareness among all employees, suppliers and contractors using the most appropriate means. Furthermore, the Group is committed to a new carbon-free model based on the use of energy from renewable sources which entails the increase and digitalisation of infrastructure and the use of innovative and environmentally friendly technologies, and the creation of partnerships. OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"239 2024 ANNUAL REPORT | TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 The value creation strategy Remarks on the results and other information Certification of Sustainability Statement The independent report on the limited audit of the Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 Annexes The Terna Group The Terna Group’s business The capital expenditure made by the Terna Group in 2024 in connection with the Resilience Plan amounted to €160.7 million (including capitalised financial expenses). It was recognised under the consolidated financial statements items “Property, plant and equipment” and “Intangible assets”. Under the EU Taxonomy, they are entirely allocated to activity 4.9, KPI CapEx both eligible and aligned. The related future capital expenditure is aligned with the amounts of the Regulated Activities provided for in the 2024-2028 Industrial Plan Update to which reference should be made. Climate change mitigation and energy As described in the section “Terna Group’s decarbonisation process”, in 2024, the Group implemented various actions to reduce its impact in terms of GHG Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. The actions described in relation to climate change mitigation are broken down by decarbonisation levers in order to provide a more specific picture of the Group’s commitment to this topic. Thanks to these initiatives, Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2024 amounted to 1,351,212 tonnes of CO2e, down 26% from 2019, the Group’s science-based target year. SF6 gas management Direct greenhouse gas emissions connected with Terna Group’s activities derive mainly from SF6 gas leaks (85% of total direct emissions in 2024). SF6 (sulphur hexafluoride) gas is used as insulation in certain electrical equipment (circuit breakers, current transformers and armoured equipment). Part of the gas in the equipment can leak into the atmosphere due to defective seals, when faults occur, and also sometimes during the re-pressuring process. SF6 gas has a very powerful greenhouse effect, which is 23,500 times greater than CO2: leakage into the atmosphere of 1 kg of SF6 is equivalent to 23.5 tonnes of CO2. The amount of SF6 present in the Group’s infrastructure has consistently grown. This is a trend linked to the better insulating performance of this gas and the smaller footprint of substations built (“armoured”) with equipment containing SF6 in comparison with more traditional solutions. This is a significant aspect for Italy, which has landscapes of major value and is densely populated. Furthermore, because of the need to develop the transmission grid in order to foster the integration of renewable sources and achieve the transition to a zero-carbon economy as per the EU guidelines, new plants using SF6 gas as an insulator will be built in the future. Consequently, the amount of gas installed will inevitably grow over time. Against this backdrop, Terna Group is constantly researching solutions to contain greenhouse gas emissions from SF6 leaks. Specifically, in 2024, maintenance and replacement of SF6-insulated circuit breakers and current transformers (CTs) and SF6-armoured equipment continued. In particular, since 2024, a monthly monitoring process of SF6 leaks on CTs, circuit breakers and armoured equipment (GIS or gas-insulated substations) has been in place, covering the entire national transmission grid. Indeed, ongoing monitoring enables the early detection of irregularities and prevents significant leaks through maintenance and replacement actions. In addition to this, in 2024, an experimental project to contain SF6 leaks (“SF6 Hexatrap”) has been launched. This solution, which is highly experimental and innovative and is intended for GIS installations, includes a metal cover expressly designed for a specific flange, guaranteeing tightness thanks to rubber o-rings. Its effectiveness will be assessed using a sniffer analysis and by comparing SF6 top ups before and after installation. This project is also mapped within the Circular Economy Roadmap with which it shares sustainable and environmental goals. In the future, there are plans to identify new test sites in order to test another solution which uses “pastes” based on metal compounds to repair cracks as well as tighten and contain leaks at the flange coupling of a GIS. Finally, insulation and interruption solutions based on SF6 substitutes are currently being studied. Specifically, already in 2022, a new connection standard using a new voltage level of 36 kV nominal has been introduced to more efficiently connect renewable production up to a maximum power of 100 MW. The strength of this new voltage level lies in the possibility of using alternative technologies to the SF6 gas, which already exist and are"
"242 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT The definition of the Terna Group’s GHG emissions reduction targets is based on the identification of its impacts in terms of climate change and on the analysis of the Company’s environmental data, particularly with respect to GHG emissions. The relevant national and international targets are also considered, such as limiting global warming to 1.5°C as per 2015 Paris Climate Conference. In this respect, Terna Group’s target related to climate change mitigation, specifically the reduction of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, was validated by SBTi (Science Based Target initiative) in 2022 and is therefore compatible with the above-mentioned limitation of global warming to 1.5°C. On the other hand, with respect to the target to reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions, the Group is currently redefining its targets in order to align them to the reporting boundary as intended by the CSRD. Furthermore, with a view to constantly raise its ambition in combating climate change, when publishing the 2024-2028 Industrial Plan update in March 2025, Terna Group officially announced its commitment to the Science Based Targets Initiative to define a net zero target to 2050 within two years. With respect to the fundamental assumptions behind the definition of Terna Group’s Science-based Target, as mentioned earlier, more than 90% of the Group’s total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are associated with grid losses, and the main lever for reducing these emissions is Terna’s integration of renewable sources into the Italian electricity system103. Therefore, the definition of the target depends on the assumptions underlying the planning of grid development in line with the guidelines of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan (“PNIEC”), which applies the targets of the European “Fit-for-55” and “RepowerEU” legislative packages at national level. In particular, the PNIEC sets national objectives for 2030 on energy efficiency, renewable sources and the reduction of CO2 emissions, as well as objectives for energy security, interconnections, the single energy market and competitiveness, sustainable development and mobility, outlining for each of them the measures that will be implemented to ensure their achievement. For further information, reference should be made to the section describing the energy scenarios in the paragraph on the double materiality. When reporting GHG emissions reduction targets, the Terna Group combines Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions104. As already discussed, the main reasons behind Group’s emissions depend on the type of emissions. With respect to Scope 1 emissions, these are mainly caused by the SF6 gas which is present in Terna’s plants and whose leaks mainly affect equipment installed. On the other hand, Scope 2 emissions are mainly attributable to grid losses, in addition to electricity consumption. The scope of the GHG emissions reduction target does not differ from that of the GHG emissions reported under the E1-6 disclosure requirement. Furthermore, it should be noted that these are gross targets, meaning that the company does not include GHG removals, carbon credits, or avoided emissions among the means to achieve them. At all stages of its decision-making process, the Terna Group is committed to taking into account the opinions of its key stakeholders. This also applies when the Group’s targets are defined, including those for reducing GHG emissions. Indeed, the ongoing dialogue with stakeholders has enabled Terna to set the Group’s priorities in terms of climate change mitigation and adaption, has contributed to defining the related targets, and has supported the implementation of many initiatives aimed at combating climate change. For information on the business process for setting and updating the Group’s targets, monitoring the related performance and the engagement of employees, see the section ‘2024 - 2028 Sustainability Plan Update’. 103 See the section “Actions in relation to climate change” for information on the link between these emissions and the decarbonisation of Italy’s energy mix. 104 In the base year (2019), Scope 1 emissions in relation to total Scope 1 and Scope 2 were 4% and Scope 2 emissions were 96%. OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"243 2024 ANNUAL REPORT | TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 The value creation strategy Remarks on the results and other information Certification of Sustainability Statement The independent report on the limited audit of the Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 Annexes The Terna Group The Terna Group’s business In order to pursue the emissions reduction target set out below, in 2024, the Group has implemented several actions which are described in the section “Actions in relation to climate change”. These actions have been broken down by decarbonisation lever for a more effective understanding of the Group’s commitment to reducing emissions. In the future, the levers described earlier will contribute to achieving the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission reduction targets set by Terna Group. Accordingly, their quantitative contribution is described below in terms of future emissions reduction. Objectives of the 2024 - 2028 Sustainability Plan update - ‘Energy Transition’ Pillar OBJECTIVE TARGET BOUNDARY METRIC AND RELATED UNIT OF MEASUREMENT BASELINE AND BASE YEAR VALUE 2024 MILESTONE 2030 Emissions reduction (Scope 1 + Scope 2) in line with the Group's Science Based Target (SBT) Terna Group tonnes of CO2e (and %) 2019 1,831,348 tonnes of CO2e 1,351,212 tonnes of CO2e -846,082 tonnes of CO2e (-46.2%) During the reporting year, there were no changes in the targets and corresponding metrics, or in the measurement methodologies adopted. Compared to past performance, in 2024, Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions amounted to 1,351,212 tonnes of CO2e, down 26% from 2019, the target base year. Additional targets related to climate change In addition to the above-mentioned Science-based Target, Terna Group has set additional targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation that are part of its Sustainability Plan. The most significant ones are shown below. OBJECTIVE TARGET BOUNDARY METRIC AND RELATED UNIT OF MEASUREMENT MILESTONE 2025 2026 2027 2028 SF6 leakage rate on total installed as a percentage. Terna Group % ≤ 0.42% ≤ 0.40% ≤ 0.38% ≤ 0.36% Construction of assets to increase the resilience of the national transmission grid Terna Group Percentage value of km of new and/or refurbished lines completed compared to the planned annual amount of the infrastructural projects covered by the Resilience Plan 100 100 100 100 As already discussed, the leakage of SF6 gas from equipment is the Group’s main source of direct emissions. Consequently, an annual target in terms of percentage impact of such leakage with respect to the total installed has long been decided. In 2024, the performance was 0.41%. Furthermore, in line with Terna Group’s proactive management of climate change adaptation, the latest Sustainability Plan update - in line with the company’s resilience planning - involved the inclusion of targets and actions to improve the resilience of the grid. The target related to assets’ realization with the aim of improving NTG resilience against weather events is shown here. The target has been defined and presented for the first time in the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan update, integrated with the Industrial Plan. Therefore, 2024 is the base year to be considered for the definition of the targets. It is therefore necessary to wait for the 2025 final balance for a proper assessment of trends. More information on the Sustainability Plan and its monitoring is available in the relevant section."
"194 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT • monitoring actions to support both preventive and restoration activities. These measures are described, on an annual basis, in the Resilience Plan, a transversal corporate plan that defines all initiatives aimed at preventing and/or reducing damage to the electricity grid caused by increasingly severe weather events in terms of intensity and frequency. As mentioned above, the resilience analysis is continuously evolving, and for this reason, further assessments are underway, such as the analysis of the meteorological and climatic phenomena mentioned earlier. What has been described so far and is outlined below forms the basis for the development of the aforementioned plan, aimed at ensuring the resilience and security of the Terna Group’s infrastructure, as well as providing a reliable and uninterrupted service. In particular, the Resilience Plan includes preventive infrastructural actions to increase resilience to snow and wind, identified with the Resilience Methodology, but also actions in the Development Plan and/or in the Connections Annex that, assessed with the new methodology, are able to reduce the risks of outages during such events. Another innovative infrastructural solution is represented by tower manoeuvring devices (Organi di Manovra su Palo - OMP), a technology conceived at Terna and patented, which consists in equipping the lattice towers that characterise NTG lines of manoeuvring systems, making it possible to increase the resilience and flexibility of operation of portions of the grid with reduced meshing, while also representing a solution with reduced visual and environmental impact. Preventive measures, again related to resilience, also include actions related to the ‘Renewal Plan’, such as reinforcing power lines and cutting down plants and trees, to prevent disruptions related to tree interference on power lines following, for example, high-wind events. Also included in the Resilience Plan are all initiatives related to the Security Plan (of which it is an annex) aimed at mitigating the effects on the grid caused in particular by snow events, such as anti-rotation devices and interphase spacers, and the adoption of technological solutions and tools to monitor the grid, prevent the occurrence of severe events, and speed up service resumption. Finally, the Resilience Plan also includes initiatives to increase resilience for other types of events such as saline and air pollution and fire risk. These are also included in the Security Plan. The Resilience Plan 2024 also expands the portfolio of initiatives to increase the resilience of the NTG through the support of digitalisation, envisaging the use of IoT techniques aimed at the widespread collection of information on the assets and which, together with complex calculation algorithms, guarantee the optimal and resilient operation of the electricity system. Additional support to the capital expenditure for the security and resilience of the NTG comes in the form of public funding under the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NRRP) and the related revision with the REPowerEU chapter, in relation to which the Group was awarded €150 million for the NRRP and €140 million for the REPowerEU, with the objective, on the one hand, of increasing the resilience of 1,500 km of NTG lines for severe weather events and, on the other hand, to start the digitalisation the NTG, ensuring safe and resilient operation. It should be noted that the Resilience Plan is an annex to the broader Defence Plan for the Security of the National Electricity System (Security Plan) that Terna prepares annually. The 2024 Security Plan is the 21st edition >> continued FOCUS Climate Change OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"245 2024 ANNUAL REPORT | TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 The value creation strategy Remarks on the results and other information Certification of Sustainability Statement The independent report on the limited audit of the Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 Annexes The Terna Group The Terna Group’s business Energy intensity based on net revenue The Terna Group’s energy intensity is 0.000075 MWh/€. The high climate impact sectors used to calculate energy intensity comprise “Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply”, “Manufacturing” and “Construction”. Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors used to calculate energy intensity (€/mln) 3,578.0 Net revenue (other) (€/mln) 38.1 Total net revenue (financial statements) (€/mln) 3,616.2 Gross Scopes 1,2,3 and Total GHG emissions U.M 2024 Gross Scope 1 emissions Gross Scope 1 emissions tCO2e 79,421.8 Percentage of Scope 1 emissions from regulated emission trading schemes % 0 Gross Scope 2 emissions Gross location-based Scope 2 emissions* tCO2e 1,271,789.8 Gross market-based Scope 2 emissions* 1,272,065.3 Gross Scope 3 emissions Total gross indirect Scope 3 emissions tCO2e 1,770,446.2 Purchased goods and services 200,220.2 Capital goods 148,623.0 Fuel and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) 524,536.4 Upstream transport and distribution 3,674.5 Waste generated in operations 15,000.4 Business travelling 5,880.1 Employee commuting 10,914.0 Downstream transportation 1,068.8 Use of sold products 859,960.8 End of life treatment of the products sold 109.9 Investments 457.9 Total emissions Total emissions (location-based approach for electricity consumption)* tCO2e 3,121,657.8 Total emissions (market-based approach for electricity consumption)* 3,121,933.3 * Companies providing electricity transmission and dispatching services are unable to make market choices both with respect to electricity consumption and with regard to grid losses. Please note that the data used to calculate Scope 1 and 2 emissions all come from internal sources. In contrast, considering the data used for the Scope 3 calculation, as also detailed below, these primarily come from external sources. Scope 1 and 2: the conversion of direct energy consumption and leakages of sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and refrigerant gases into equivalent CO2emissions has been carried out using the parameters indicated in the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). The conversion of indirect electricity consumption was carried out taking into account the share of thermoelectric production in total Italian or foreign electricity production in 2024. Allocation for the purposes of the production mix is based on the 2024 issue of the “Monthly Report on the Electricity System” (available on the website at www.terna.it) for Italy and Enerdata for abroad. With respect to market-based emissions, contracts with sustainable option choice were identified for Brugg Kabel Services AG and some LT Group plants. In this respect, it is noted that companies in the electricity sector (providing electricity transmission and dispatching services) are unable to select a specific operator due to regulatory issues. Consequently, market-based emissions were measured considering the grid factor for all companies operating in the electricity transmission and dispatching sector. With respect to market-based emissions, in order to ensure comparability with location- based emissions, emissions related to grid losses have been included although they are specific to the electricity system and cannot, in any way, be considered in the same way as electricity consumption for which the Transmission System Operator can make a market-based choice. Therefore, the market-based value was calculated by considering the 99.7% of emissions for which the Terna Group is unable to make any market choices. Scope 3: The screening of Scope 3 categories showed that some of them were not significant for reporting purposes. This is either because their impact on total emissions is marginal or because they do not apply to the Group. The following categories were not included in the calculation: Category 8 - Upstream leased assets; Category 10 - Processing of sold products; Category 13 - Downstream leased assets; Category 14 - Franchises. Category 1: For Terna S.p.A. Terna Rete Italia S.p.A.; Rete S.r.l.; Terna Crna Gora d.o.o.; Terna Energy Solutions S.r.l.; Terna Interconnector S.r.l.; Terna Plus S.r.l., the LCA method was applied, using the Excel tool developed by Bocconi University. The inputs are the kilometres of power lines built during the year, broken down by power output and number of electricity substations built during the year, also broken down by power output. Marine cables were not taken into account as they are unchanged. These inputs are entered into the LCA Tool and processed in another Excel file. For the final calculation, emissions arising from the most impactful installation and disposal operations are counted together. For the Brugg Group, Tamini Group and LT Group, this category includes inputs concerning goods and services. For calculation purposes, an average-data method or, alternatively, a spend-based approach was used: CO2 equivalent emissions were estimated based on the consumption physical- (expressed in kg) or spend-based data (expressed in CHF/€) for each good and/or service purchased. The calculation method involves multiplying the physical- or spend-based data MDR-M < E1-6 <"
"252 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT In accordance with the operating instructions, if Natura 2000 sites are involved, the Terna Group carries out multi- level studies depending on the type of infrastructure and direct or indirect interference, in accordance with the principles of the most recent legislation in force, i.e.: 1. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), in order to assess in advance whether certain projects may have a significant impact on Sites of Community Importance (SCI), Special Areas of Conservation (SAC) and Special Protection Areas (SPA); 2. Pre-screening and screening, to assess, where applicable, whether the projects may have a significant positive or negative impact on the environment and whether they should be subject to assessment; 3. For infrastructure subject to EIA, performance of the Environmental Impact Study (EIS) to assess the environmental impacts generated by the project; check the effectiveness of the mitigation measures provided in the EIS to reduce the scale of the significant environmental impacts identified during the construction and operation stage (monitoring during and after construction); identify any unexpected environmental impacts or impacts that go beyond those foreseen in the EIS and plan appropriate corrective measures (monitoring during and after construction); 4. Possible Environmental Monitoring Plan before, during and after construction, to monitor the environmental impacts of the infrastructure, whose project is subject to approval or authorisation. 5. Documentation confirming compliance with any environmental requirements of the authorities (also for projects not subject to EIA procedure). With respect to the monitoring process, as part of project development activities, the Unit in charge of Local Analyses and Theme-based Controls operates to ensure the preparation of technical-environmental analyses aimed at locating land structures, guaranteeing their environmental sustainability, in accordance with the environmental policies and studies unit for the relevant infrastructure. In addition, for non-submarine components, it ensures theme-based controls in the field of vegetation, wildlife and biodiversity. The Environmental Studies structure takes care of, plans and carries out environmental studies for the design, authorisation and construction of greenfield plants. The operating instructions ‘Performance of a feasibility study’ and ‘Preparation of a project for authorisation’ apply to all Terna Group’s organisational units responsible for preparing technical-economic feasibility projects to start authorisation procedures pursuant to Legislative decree no. 239/03, as well as to all Terna Group’s organisational units that produce internally or outsource the preparation of environmental studies and/or documents to start environmental authorisation procedures. These are approved by the Department of the Grid Development and Dispatching Strategies - Project Development. In fact, the operating instruction ‘Management of authorisation requirements for the construction of electricity infrastructure’ applies to preparatory activities and the construction of electricity infrastructure, and can be extended to other types of infrastructure pertaining to the Terna Group which may be characterised by authorisation decrees that contain requirements. It is approved by the Department of Grid Development and Dispatching Strategies - Project Development together with the Department for Engineering and Project Implementation Design and Implementation . The person in charge of the procedure pursuant to Law no. 241/1990 as amended, to the extent of the execution phase (Legislative decree no. 36/2023), is responsible for the proper fulfilment of the authorisation requirements. OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"255 2024 ANNUAL REPORT | TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 The value creation strategy Remarks on the results and other information Certification of Sustainability Statement The independent report on the limited audit of the Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 Annexes The Terna Group The Terna Group’s business Monitoring and assessing the environmental status of Terna Group sites - Entomofauna surveys at Terna Group sites During the year, the Ecological Incremental Index or IEI methodology (registered as Intellectual Property - SIAE 2022/02452) was applied. This methodology was developed in 2022 and will continue in 2025 in order to monitor and assess, site by site, how the environmental status changes and a Dynamic Indicator that measures this change over time for each individual site, whilst also providing a global indication of the changes taking place at all the sites in general. The entomofauna survey carried out in 2024 covered 8 sites located in Lombardy, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Marche, Emilia-Romagna and Sardinia, where 12,644 beetles were sampled, broken down into 81 families, in accordance with the taxonomic classification of Coleoptera families of the checklist of Italy’s wildlife, with a few modifications. The sampling method involved two sampling sessions during the period of greatest entomofauna activity, with a sampling interval of 20 days. For the eight sites, two sampling stations were identified: one within the test area and another in the external control area. The collected material was analysed in the laboratory, the samples identified at family and trophic-functional group level and entered into the database. The Tiny Forest project Five actions of the Tiny Forest project have been carried out since 2022, in collaboration with the Italian Botanical Company in Lombardy, Veneto, Lazio (2) and Campania. The aim of the project is to create natural habitats to increase biodiversity, by adopting Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki’s innovative forestry method of creating tiny forests with a high density of native species. This approach facilitates rapid plant growth, the development of self-sufficient ecosystems and increased capacity of CO2 absorption. Environmental monitoring for marine cable laying As part of marine cable laying activities (before, during and after), the water column, sediment, benthic community and seabed components were subject to marine environmental monitoring in 2024, in order to describe and assess the interaction between cables and the related environment. The surveys will be repeated annually to enable the analysis and comparison of biological, chemical, physical and geophysical parameters over time."
"257 2024 ANNUAL REPORT | TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 The value creation strategy Remarks on the results and other information Certification of Sustainability Statement The independent report on the limited audit of the Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 Annexes The Terna Group The Terna Group’s business Metrics and targets related to biodiversity protection Goals of the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan As part of the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan update, the Terna Group has defined a series of specific targets aimed at assessing the progress made with respect to the protection of biodiversity and the related material impacts and opportunities, also with a view to ensuring a clear path towards achieving the objectives identified by the thematic policies adopted by the Group and reported on previously. Objectives of the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan update - ‘Creation of shared value’ Pillar OBJECTIVE TARGET BOUNDARY METRIC AND RELATED UNIT OF MEASUREMENT MILESTONE 2025 2026 2027 2028 Actions to increase biodiversity near company assets - the Biodotti project Terna Group No. of projects to enhance biodiversity on existing supports 20 25 30 40 Continuation of the programme to remove obsolete overhead lines in line with the industrial plan Terna Group Kilometres of obsolete overhead lines removed 50 160 155 130 For the sake of completeness, it is noted that the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan included a target of 103 km of obsolete lines removed. In 2024, 69.6 km of obsolete overhead lines were removed. This target was not met due to postponements. Some demolitions have been postponed until 2025 or later, pending the completion of the necessary works. It should be noted that the number of biodiversity enhancement interventions on existing supports was 17 in 2024, a year for which no target value had been set. The above targets were processed and represented, for the first time, in the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan, the first integrated with the Industrial Plan. The base year to be considered for the formulation of the targets is therefore, as a rule, 2024. It is therefore necessary to wait for the 2025 final balance for a proper assessment of trends. The updated Sustainability Plan, whose guidelines were shared at the Sustainability Governance and Scenarios Board Committee and also represented within the Industrial Plan document submitted to the board of directors, did not require any particular changes in terms of metrics or methodologies for these objectives. The targets related to the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems also show the Group’s broader approach to this topic covered by the relevant Policies. Indeed, the Biodotti project and the removal of obsolete overhead lines are in line with the principles of No net loss of biodiversity and, where possible, Net improvement, and are consistent with the mitigation hierarchy, on which the Biodiversity Commitment, the Integrated Management System Policy and the Development Plan’s Strategic Environmental Assessment Guideline are based. As part of the definition of targets and initiatives, the priorities identified by the double materiality and environmental assessment carried out in order to maintain the ISO 14001 certification were considered. No further specific ecological thresholds were considered. In this respect, developments are possible based on the Group’s path towards the adoption of a Science-based Target for Nature (included in the targets of the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan) in line with the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN) methodology. Furthermore, the SBTN methodology provides a framework that is consistent with global and regional biodiversity policies and regulations, such as those established by COP15 and the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2030, which enable companies to set scientifically sound and measurable biodiversity targets. In order to achieve this target, in 2024, the first phase of the preparatory activities envisaged in the methodology was completed, with the adoption of a 2026 target as a milestone. This activity sets a target based on a certified scientific methodology to minimise the Group’s impacts in terms of changes to biodiversity. Biodiversity-related targets are linked to the impacts identified as part of the double materiality assessment and are also tools for mitigating changes to biodiversity and enhancing the positive effects related to the initiatives undertaken by the Group. Specifically, the physical removal of obsolete lines is one of the rehabilitation and restoration ways MDR-T < E4-4 <"
"196 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT Protecting biodiversity The interaction of the Group’s activities with biodiversity is mainly related to the physical presence of power lines and electricity substations78 and their impact on the surrounding environment, which can be both natural and man-made. In particular, with reference to the construction phase of the works, great attention is paid to the choice of areas and access tracks, selected, when possible, in areas of lesser natural value. In the case of submarine power lines, the impacts concern the integrity of the seabed on which the undersea cables are laid. Regarding laying and maintenance operations, the impacts primarily concern aquatic flora species such as, for example, Posidonia oceanica. In this context, the search for the route constitutes the most delicate design phase as it determines the future impact on the environment and biodiversity of the entire development project. For this reason, Terna, without prejudice to the need to identify a route that allows for the regular operation and maintenance of the power line, seeks design solutions that minimise the amount of land used, interference with areas of environmental, natural, landscape, and archaeological value whether urbanised or urban development areas, and the encumbrances on the properties involved79. The support of the GIS technology (‘Geographic Information System’), is fundamental when searching for sustainable locations (corridors) for National Transmission Grid (NTG) development projects. This technology allows comprehensive consideration of all information relating to the different types of land use and protection obligations (territorial, naturalistic, cultural, landscape, etc.), in order to identify possible locations which are the most compatible with the area concerned. The interaction between Terna lines and substations and protected areas or areas of natural interest is constantly monitored. Therefore, all of the Group’s assets are assessed with the support of GIS technology, and overall, monitoring includes all substations (915 in 2024) and power lines (68,374 km in 2024). With the support of this database, it has been carried out an inventory of possible interferences between assets and protected area or areas of high biodiversity, cross-referencing data on the electricity grid with local data. (in 2024, there were 7,276.24 km of power lines and 34 electricity substations interfering with protected areas; for more details, see the tables on page 259, in the context of paragraph “Metrics related to biodiversity protection”). Considering that interventions in protected areas are reduced to a minimum by virtue of the application of ERPA procedures, the mitigation measures required by legislation and ordered by local authorities are applied for new works. The Double Materiality Assessment 2024 identified and considered the impacts that may collectively concern the Group’s activities with respect to biodiversity, it was not deemed necessary to break down the impacts by specific sites. This detail is carried out following the requirements and environmental impact assessment for the implementation of the Development Plan. The Double Materiality Assessment considered the direct and indirect impacts of Terna’s activities on biodiversity and ecosystems, assessing both actual and potential impacts. Starting from an analysis of internal and external corporate documents, also considering sector-specific guidelines of the Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), a series of impacts related to the topics and sub-topics indicated by the ESRS standards were then identified. The identified impacts were submitted to the relevant corporate functions and external sustainability experts, who assessed their materiality based on the criteria of significance and likelihood. The contribution of the functions involved in the context of the Double Materiality Assessment is of particular importance since they are responsible for ensuring ongoing dialogue with the stakeholders as a fundamental element of the preparatory activities for updating and implementing the Development Plan. The Group is constantly committed to establishing and implementing the most efficient forms of engagement and participatory planning, with particular FOCUS 78 For a list of sites, see the tables ‘Details of power lines owned by the Terna Group’ and ‘Details of electricity substations owned by the Terna Group’ on page 388. 79 Terna’s planning includes the study of site plans aimed at using existing roads or tracks to minimise the opening of new tracks, especially in wooded or protected areas, and the assessment of problems related to cutting vegetation, adopting methodologies and tools to minimise interference such as optimising the height of supports and their location. Agreement on location criteria is the instrument used for selecting local corridors with least impact. These criteria are used to identify the greater or lesser degree of suitability of an area to host new electricity infrastructure. Terna and the Regions have agreed on a system of ERPA criteria (Exclusion; Repulsion; Problems; Attraction), based on four classes, to be adopted when locating new electrical works. Protected areas, including the IUCN (International Union for the Conservation of Nature) categories that coincide with these, fall into the ‘Repulsion’ category, which binds Terna not to operate unless there are no alternatives or there are only alternatives that are even less environmentally compatible. E4 | SBM-3 > E4| IRO-1 > OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"262 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT The reference framework is based on four pillars – each related to a phase of the Group’s operating cycle (including Non-regulated Activities) – which respond to the need to focus each circularity action in the Company to a specific business area, namely: • Procurement • Asset management • Operation of the electricity grid • The disposal of assets The above enabling factors, being those elements essential to effectively manage the transition to a circular economy model, are as follows: 1) Systemic vision: the organisation’s vision of the circular economy and its integration into business processes. 2) Innovation: integrating circularity into innovation processes. 3) Governance: integrationof circular economy principles into the corporate decision-making and strategic structure. 4) Collaboration: establish collaborations inside and outside the company in order to create value and operate with a circular approach. 5) Optimising Value: maximise the value of company assets throughout their lifetime. 6) Transparency: communicateits circular economy initiatives within and outside the company. 7) Performance assessment: measure actions and targets related to the circular economy. The Circular Economy Roadmap is based on this strategic vision and establishes initiatives and actions designed to embed the concept of circularity within the corporate’s business model. The Roadmap covers the period through to 2030 and is aligned with the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan, which has been integrated with the 2024-2028 Industrial Plan. The progress towards the expected targets is subject to structured monitoring in order to identify any deviations and, consequently, implement corrective actions. The targets of the Circular Economy Roadmap are as follows: • Develop a culture of circularity throughout the organisation and to protect our planet while ensuring business continuity; • Reduce the use of raw materials, specifically non-renewable and non-recyclable materials that have a strong impact on health and the environment; • Create a supply chain that respects circularity criteria in its business; • Define structured design and management to minimise the resulting environmental impacts; • Facilitate the country’s energy transition to RES through asset development activities; • Develop solutions that support the energy transition of the system and enable the smart exchange of energy with the grid; • Reduce the GHG emissions released due to the dispersion of gases with a high global warming potential; • Increase the reuse of assets and the use of waste; • Create a supply chain based on the optimisation of reuse and recycling to minimise externalities and negative impacts, in order to avoid sending the waste produced to landfills; • Preserve the ecosystems in which the business operates by maintaining the current levels of biodiversity and avoiding the depletion and further consumption of land. OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"258 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT used by Terna to reduce environmental impacts, also in terms of land use. Increasing biodiversity through habitat creation initiatives includes the various activities promoted by the Group, such as the Tiny Forest project and the ‘Biodotti’ project, for the performance of specific actions in the agricultural/natural areas hosting the pylons shown in the above table. In particular, the ‘Biodotti’ target shows the Group’s commitment to improving and increasing biodiversity, also going beyond the logic of the mitigation hierarchy. It should be noticed that the Group in defining the targets represented in the table outlined in the table above, did not use compensation logic. The definition of the target related to the Biodotti project took as a starting assumption the set of pylons existing in 2021 and located in agricultural or natural areas. In particular, in order to identify them, local information systems were used, followed by subsequent specific analyses on company asset databases. Based on this set, the pylons to be involved in the design and implementation projects to enhance biodiversity are identified through joint comparisons and checks against the NTG. These projects include different types of activities which are defined on the basis of the characteristics of the site. These include, inter alia: restoration of shrub cores, creation of artificial hibernacula, inclusion of flowering shrubs and hedges, spreading of flowering plants, creation of reservoirs, reconstruction and restoration of dry stone walls and placement of bat boxes or bird nesting boxes. The final total number of existing pylons in agricultural/natural areas with biodiversity-enhancing measures will be 40 by 2028. With respect to the target concerning the definition and adoption of an SBTN target, the analysis aligned with the methodology of the Science Based Targets Network framework is currently underway. With respect to this process, the materiality analysis aimed at identifying the activities that could potentially negatively impact the environment has already been completed, and the value chain analysis is currently underway. The adoption of a SBTN will enable the company to set a scientifically based and certified target for reducing the Terna Group’s impact on nature, further strengthening its position towards a net positive impact. These targets also drive the Group’s actions in line with recent European regulatory developments. The target related to the removal of obsolete overhead lines is set in accordance with forecasts based on the planned undergrounding and decommissioning activities. Demolition activities depend on the technical implementation of other projects (such as the undergrounding of cables) and on the technical confirmation of feasibility. This flexible approach also implies possible modifications to reflect new technical solutions or changes in local conditions. OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"266 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT gas is purchased) are between 3 and 8% (average loss rates for production plants), whilst those saved for each kg of SF6 not sent for thermal destruction are between 2% and 4% (average loss rates for thermal destruction plants), according to the values shown in the 2019 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories of the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The average percentage of avoided emissions with the same amount of non-produced and non-destroyed new gas is 8.5% (5.5% +3%). This action covers Italian plants. During the four-year period 2021-2024, approximately 33,736 kg of SF6 gas have been regenerated, preventing the leakage into the atmosphere of approximately 2,868 kg (resulting from the sum of the leakage during production of new gas and the disposal of disused gas) which, based on the 8.5% average between non-production and non-destruction, amounts to 67,398 tonnes of CO2 equivalent avoided. The emissions prevented correspond with those emitted in a year by approximately 8,100 diesel fuel vehicles. In the Circular Economy Roadmap, a target of regenerating 57,000 kg of SF6 gas by 2028 has been set. The target has been calculated taking into account the average quantity of gas regenerated annually to meet with Terna’s needs, i.e., the kilograms of SF6 gas disposed of. Innovative projects to contain SF6 leakage In 2024, Terna S.p.A. and Terna Rete Italia S.p.A. identified an innovative solution that could be tested in order to limit the greenhouse gas emissions related to its core business, with particular reference to SF6 gas used in GIS stations. This solution, which involves the French supplier Mastergrid, uses a metal “cover” that is specifically designed and sized for a particular flange of the GIS system. Mastergrid’s solution will be tested during 2025 on a leakage point at the GIS plant in Ceprano (central Italy). This first test on a single plant is necessary in order to check the effectiveness in terms of containing SF6 gas leaks. Should the first test be successful, a large-scale planning process may begin over a medium-term horizon, specifically starting from 2026. This will therefore include the identification of new potential test sites, presumably evenly located throughout the country, and technical-economic assessments preliminary to final adoption. Waste At the end of the normal life cycle of the finished products purchased to expand and maintain the NTG (electrical equipment, conductors, equipment and other elements), the materials comprising such products are recovered for reuse in operations. Only a residual portion is sent to landfill. Whilst the overall amount of waste produced reflects the timing of equipment replacements, effectual recovery depends on the materials contained in the waste: some of them are easy to separate out and thus reuse (for example, iron parts of pylons). In other cases, it is either too costly or not possible to separate the various parts, above all when dealing with the most obsolete equipment. For these reasons, annual changes in the amount of waste generated and the percentage of waste recycles should not be interpreted as indicating a trend. Monitoring of the waste generated and the means of waste management employed are audited both internally and externally as per ISO 14001 certification requirements, as are the methods of waste disposal, to ensure compliance with existing legislation. OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
"267 2024 ANNUAL REPORT | TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 The value creation strategy Remarks on the results and other information Certification of Sustainability Statement The independent report on the limited audit of the Consolidated Sustainability Statement 2024 Annexes The Terna Group The Terna Group’s business The main special hazardous waste generated by the operation of power lines and substations with high recovery percentages, consists of: • Metal waste. Waste results from the decommissioning of transformers, electrical equipment and machinery that is no longer used and contaminated by hazardous substances. • Batteries. In the event of a blackout, batteries enable emergency generators to be switched on in order to keep the energy transformation and transportation service up and running during emergencies. • Dielectric oils. Used for isolating transformers replaced after periodic transformer maintenance checks. The waste sent for disposal mainly consists of materials deriving from infrastructure maintenance and cleaning activities (oily emulsions and rags containing solvent oils) and insulating materials containing asbestos, for which no form of recovery is envisaged. The main actions carried out by the Group during the year in order to pursue the targets set out in its waste management policies are as follows: Tracking and reporting on waste using the Atlantide software As part of the project to digitalise its processes, in 2024, Terna S.p.A. and Terna Rete Italia S.p.A. introduced a system to support the administrative management of waste in order to increase efficiency and achieve a high level of control. This need will also combine with the entry into effect of the new National Electronic Waste Traceability Register (RENTRI). Indeed, the software will allow interoperability with the RENTRI information system, facilitating the communication of waste traceability data from Terna to RENTRI. This new software will also enable Terna to extract more reliable and accurate reports on waste that also provide greater control over waste recycling rates. Transforming used PPE (clothing, shoes and helmets) into secondary raw materials Optimising the recycling of waste by transforming Terna S.p.A.’s and Terna Rete Italia S.p.A.’s PPE into second raw materials began in 2021 and is still in place as part of the collaboration with ESO Benefit. ESO stands out from other market operators which collect the same type of waste thanks to its expertise in the back-to-work services provided to companies that use PPE, such as work clothes, helmets and shoes. The service provides for the collection and recycling of PPE that, once worn out and having reached the end of its life cycle, is sent to a recycling process. The back-to-work service enables companies to optimise their separate waste collection, transforming waste into new resources and adopting good corporate social responsibility practices. In particular, the material collected by ESO and correctly characterised is not finally disposed of by incineration (as is the case for the vast majority of this type of waste). In fact, it is sent to treatment processes that transform it into secondary raw materials (SRM). Specifically, the recycled part of shoes may be transformed into an anti-shock floor which, for example, is particularly suitable for children’s playgrounds. The pilot use will be agreed directly with ESO, until 2028, based on the waste recycled in recent years."
"268 TERNA S.P.A. AND TERNA GROUP | 2024 ANNUAL REPORT Metrics and targets related to the promotion of circular economy Goals of the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan As part of the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan, the Terna Group has defined a series of specific targets to assess the progress with respect to the circular economy and the related material impacts, also with a view to ensuring a clear path towards achieving the objectives identified by the thematic policies adopted by the Group and reported on previously. Objectives of the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan update - ‘Sustainable value chain’ Pillar OBJECTIVE TARGET BOUNDARY METRIC AND RELATED UNIT OF MEASUREMENT MILESTONE 2025 2026 2027 2028 Recupero e rigenerazione del gas SF6 Gruppo Terna Kg di gas SF6 rigenerato 42.000 47.000 52.000 57.000 The above target was developed and set out, for the first time, in the 2024-2028 Sustainability Plan, the first to be integrated with the Industrial Plan. The base year to be considered for the formulation of the target is therefore, as a rule, 2024. It is therefore necessary to wait for the 2025 final balance for a proper assessment of performance and trends. The updated Sustainability Plan, whose guidelines were shared at the Sustainability Governance and Scenarios Board Committee and also represented within the Industrial Plan document submitted to the board of directors, did not require any particular changes in terms of metrics or methodologies for this objective. It should be noted that in 2024, 33,036 kg of SF6 gas were regenerated, a year for which a target value had not been set. The Sustainability Plan includes another target which is relevant to resource outflows, namely the 100% recovery of hazardous waste by 2028. For this target, which is linked to the “Waste” reference metric reported below, no significant Milestones are currently planned within the plan’s timeframe, and developments regarding the target’s applicability scope, originally conceived for the Electrical Perimeter, will be monitored within the dedicated Coordination Group.The above targets are consistent with those included in the Circular Economy Roadmap and Terna Group’s Integrated Management System Policy, and comply with the UNI ISO 14001 standard. These targets were drawn up taking into account the main international frameworks (e.g. UNI EN ISO 14001:2015) and also take into account the requirements expressed by the various rating agencies specialised in sustainability topics. The target for SF6 gas was defined based on the projected need for this gas over the next few years. Terna’s use of regenerated gas complies with Regulation (EU) 2024/573, which aims to promote the use of regenerated gas rather than new gas. In setting the target of 100% recovery of hazardous waste by 2028, the current regulatory framework and internal waste management practices have been considered, in line with the environmental impact reduction objectives. The target is closely linked to the management of resource inflows and outflows, in line with the principles of circular economy. The use of regenerated SF6 gas reduces the dependence on new gas, optimising the efficiency of the resources already available. With respect to outflows, the recovery of hazardous waste and, more generally, correct waste management, contributes to ensuring a circular and efficient production model. In particular, with respect to the waste target, in accordance with the waste hierarchy, reference is made to the recycling stage, while for the recovery of SF6 gas, the target refers to the first of the five stages of the hierarchy, i.e. prevention. The targets covered by the Sustainability Plan and described herein are voluntary in nature and no absolute priority has been set for their achievement, except for possible milestones in the plan as shown in the table. Regarding the process for defining and updating objectives, monitoring related performance, and employee involvement, please refer to the section “2024–2028 Sustainability Plan Update”. MDR-T > E5-3 > OTHER DOCUMENTS SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OPERATIONS"
