24 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024
UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 25
26 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024
UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 27
28 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024
UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 29
"The identified decarbonization levers are described below. The reservoirs of actions have already been identified, notably the supply of low-carbon energy, progress which is monitored on a quarterly basis. Valeo is committed to using more than 80% low-carbon electricity by 2030. According to the Group's market analysis, the earmarked budget would put Valeo on track to go beyond this target, up to around 3 TWh if necessary, thus contributing to an emission reduction of around 2 MtCO2e. ISO 50001 certification Between 2021 and 2024, Valeo continued to invest in transforming its sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions (Scopes 1 & 2), with a view to obtaining ISO 50001 certification for 105 sites. In conjunction with these energy performance projects, the proportion of low-carbon energy in the Group’s overall energy consumption will increase from 5.5% in 2019 to 80% by 2030, with a threshold of 50% from 2025. The actions taken by the sites to achieve this objective are detailed in section 4.2.3.6 “Climate-related actions and resources”, page 228. Upstream Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions The 2030 upstream Scope 3 emission reduction target is 1,400 ktCO2eq. compared with the 2019 baseline. Depending on the change in Group sales between now and 2030 and the distribution of Product Lines in the Valeo sales portfolio, this amount could more than double. The decarbonization levers identified for upstream Scope 3 are described below. The reservoirs of validated actions to be implemented cover 90% of upstream Scope 3 GHG emission reductions, and are monitored during quarterly CAP 50 committees. Thanks to the use of low-carbon materials (recycled, biosourced, etc.) and improvements in the energy efficiency of Valeo's suppliers, reductions of up to 3 MtCO2eq. have been identified. Valeo will also benefit from the decarbonization of its value chain, particularly the supply of electronic components, which could contribute to the reduction of over a million additional metric tons of CO2. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 224 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Upstream Scope 3 actions Valeo has also set the same greenhouse gas emissions objectives for its suppliers. To help reduce upstream Scope 3 emissions, Valeo implemented an extensive plan in 2022 to measure the emissions of its product platforms through life cycle assessments. This work has enabled the use of levers to reduce emissions, such as low-emission materials, weight reduction and support for suppliers to improve their carbon performance. In 2023, 80% of the Group’s product platforms were subject to a product carbon footprint based on life cycle assessments (using the Global Warming Potential indicator) and 43% defined quantified action plans for reduction solutions. In 2024, 100% of the Group’s product platforms were subject to a product carbon footprint and 75% defined quantified action plans for reduction solutions. Valeo continued to conduct life cycle assessments for all its platforms. It is now mandatory in all eligible development projects for the product carbon footprint to be managed with a view to achieving a target aligned with the Group’s commitment. Implementation of the life cycle assessment process continues with the training of R&D teams in new processes and tools, and the creation of new dedicated positions. Life cycle assessments by product line sold by Valeo will be completed in 2025. Downstream Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions The 2030 downstream Scope 3 emission reduction target is 5,850 ktCO2eq. compared with the 2019 baseline. Depending on the change in the Group sales between now and 2030, and the distribution among the Product Lines, this amount could more than double. The identified decarbonization levers are described below. The reservoirs already identified cover 85% of downstream Scope 3 GHG reductions and are monitored on a quarterly basis. Firstly, the use of Valeo products in a growing number of ever more efficient electric vehicles should reduce the Group's environmental impact by an amount of more than 10 million metric tons of CO2eq. In addition, the reservoirs of actions to be implemented are related to design changes, new concepts, and changes in the Valeo product portfolio, which could contribute to an additional reduction of up to 2 million metric tons of CO2eq. Downstream Scope 3 actions To reduce greenhouse gas emissions related to the end use of products, Valeo will continue to expand its range of technologies contributing to low-carbon mobility, in particular solutions for vehicle electrification, a field in which the Group is now a world leader. The Group is also continuing its efforts to use lighter materials and alternative technologies to reduce product weight and energy consumption. Valeo validated 34 biosourced and recycled resins, plus 9 recycled aluminum materials, which will help reduce the carbon footprint of its materials and products. Investments and financing to support the implementation of the transition plan Investments Valeo has committed to invest 400 million euros to decarbonize its sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. A process has been defined to identify investments related to activities associated with the CAP 50 plan. Investment thresholds per metric ton reduction of CO2eq are validated by the Chief Executive Officer and monitored quarterly. The CAP 50 Director provides a summary report of investments to all Divisions, together with the associated expected CO2eq. reductions. Financing Valeo issued an inaugural 600 million euro green bond in October 2023, followed by a second 850 million euro issue in April 2024. These green bonds were issued under the Green and Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework published in September 2023, available on Valeo’s website, in the Debt and rating section. The funds raised are used to finance projects and investments related to the portfolio of technologies contributing to vehicle electrification and meeting the technical criteria of the European Green Taxonomy. In February 2021, the European Investment Bank approved 600 million euros in funding for Valeo research and development projects focused specifically on technologies that reduce CO2 emissions and improve active vehicle safety. Projects related to the decarbonization of mobility, half of which will be financed from this amount, amount to 257 million euros. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 225"
"The Group has also issued two sustainability-linked bonds indexed to a December 2025 carbon footprint target, for 700 million euros in July 2021 and 750 million euros in November 2022. These two issues underline Valeo’s commitment to carbon neutrality. The characteristics of these financing arrangements are presented in Chapter 5, section 5.4.6 “Notes to the consolidated financial statements”, Notes 1.3.6 “Financing”, page 364, and 9.1.2.1 “Long-term debt”, page 402. Assessment of potential locked-in GHG emissions Following a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the potential locked-in GHG emissions of its main assets and products, Valeo has concluded that the level of these emissions does not jeopardize the achievement of its reduction targets. Objective or plan for aligning Taxonomy-eligible economic activities The share of the Group’s 2024 turnover, capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenses (OpEx) related to Taxonomy- eligible economic activities under the six objectives of Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation, are detailed in section 4.2.2.5 “Taxonomy KPI tables”, page 212. Integration of the transition plan into financial strategy and planning Since 2020, the Sustainable Development and External Affairs Department has also been in charge of the governance structure established for the launch, implementation and monitoring of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050. This steering committee brings together all the aforementioned departments and networks under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer. Its aim is to set annual objectives for the various contributing networks and to oversee the implementation of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan. To monitor the plan, Valeo has set annualized greenhouse gas emission reduction objectives, backed by action plans for the internal networks contributing to them. The achievement of these objectives is presented to the General Management at quarterly reviews, and since 2021 has been one of the criteria for the variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and more than 1,700 senior executives. Approval of the transition plan by governance The Board of Directors is the Group’s highest governance body in charge of the CAP 50 Plan and has delegated responsibility for its implementation and monitoring to the Governance, Appointments & Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (see section 4.1.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives”, page 191). Results of the implementation of the transition plan The targets and results achieved in 2024 are presented in section 4.2.3.8 “Energy consumption”, page 233 and 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”, page 234. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 226 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"4.2.3.5 Policies related to climate mitigation and adaptation (DR E1-2) [ESRS E1 § 24] - [ESRS E1 § 25] Policy Key content and objectives Scope and exclusions Most senior level in the undertaking organization accountable for the implementation of the policy Third-party standards or initiatives followed in implementing the policy Consideration of key stakeholder interests in policy development Made available to stakeholders Climate change adaptation Identify sites exposed to physical climate risk and implement associated adaptation measures. Ensure the resilience of all Group sites, people and activities to climate change. Anticipate the effects of climate change on sites and communities. General policy applicable to all sites External Affairs, Regulatory Affairs and Sustainable Development Director IPCC recommendations based on two IPCC global warming scenarios – RCP2-4.5 and RCP5-8.5; Data for physical risk assessment from global climate models, CMIP5 models, Copernicus ERA5, UNEP-Preview, World Earthquake Model, WRI, DE JBA, IIASA Water Futures and Solutions and ISIMIP models Industrial and HSE site managers, Risk & Insurance team The policy is for internal use only. GHG emission reduction (Mitigation) Contributing to carbon neutrality. Provide CAP 50 training to employees. Assess suppliers’ sustainability maturity. Stages 0, 1, 2, 3. Invest 400 million euros between 2021 and 2030 to decarbonize the 100 sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. General policy applicable to all sites Valeo’s Board of Directors and Vice-President, Sustainable Development and External Affairs GHG Protocol standards (corporate accounting and reporting, Scope 2 guidelines, Scope 3 calculation guidelines, estimating and reporting avoided emissions, calculation guidelines, corporate value chain standard (Scope 3)) NGOs, regulators, customers, suppliers, investors, ESG agencies, public sector, Valeo top management and employees The policy is for internal use only. Energy efficiency policy Improve the energy efficiency of industrial processes. Increase the share of low-carbon energy purchased to power sites. Produce low-carbon energy directly on site, increasing the share of renewable energies. Reduce the use of gas, fuel oil and other fossil fuels in all forms, as well as electricity. General policy applicable to all sites Group HSE Director Based on SBTi, ISO 50001 and ISO 14001 standards Internal stakeholders: – Sites – HSE, operations and purchasing teams External stakeholders: – Energy suppliers – Communities and local authorities The policy is for internal use only. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 227"
"4.2.3.6 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (DR E1-3) [ESRS E1 § 28] – [ESRS E1 § 29] The actions and resources related to climate change mitigation and adaptation are described below. LIST OF SIGNIFICANT ACTIONS TAKEN DURING THE YEAR AND THOSE PLANNED FOR THE FUTURE Challenge Key actions Scope Horizon Key targets Outcomes of actions Resources allocated Financial resources Adaptation to physical risks associated with climate change Vulnerability and adaptation audit at pilot sites identified as priorities and representative in terms of exposure Continuation of audits undertaken in 2024 Continuation of site- specific adaptation initiatives, complemented by specific action plans resulting from audits Development of a methodology based on site audits and its rollout across the company (finalization in 2025) Initial approach to quantifying physical risks Group 2030-2050 Ensure the resilience of all sites and business continuity in the face of climate phenomena The Group’s exposure is well identified following the exposure study (science-based). Some historically exposed sites have already started to adapt and partially improve their resilience (points identified during pilot audits). Ongoing vulnerability audits are helping to improve the understanding of vulnerabilities and define effective mitigation actions. Following these audits, a methodology adapted to the Group’s specific vulnerabilities will be implemented to enable non-audited sites to adopt the appropriate adaptation measures Site managers, industrial networks, HSE, HR Group Risk/ Insurance Expenditure on external adaptation audit services and monitoring of action plans Adaptation investment by sites Challenge Key actions Scope Horizon Key targets Outcomes of actions Resources allocated Financial resources Reduce GHG emissions Scope 1 & 2 actions related to energy consumption and improving processes and equipment Upstream Scope 3 actions: increase in the share of supplies from suppliers aligned with Valeo’s sustainability commitments, dedicated logistics actions, etc. Downstream Scope 3 actions: reduction in the weight of Valeo products, reduction in energy consumption Group 2025 – 2030 – 2050 Roll out CAP 50 training to employees Reduce carbon emissions in its own operations Assess the sustainability maturity of the supply chain (Stage 0,1,2,3) and pass on the Group’s CO2eq. emission reduction targets to suppliers Manage CO2eq. emission reductions from the product portfolio Ensure that 50% of electricity purchased in Asia (China and India), North America (Mexico) and Central Europe (Poland, Czech Republic and Hungary) is of guaranteed carbon-free origin by 2025 and 80% by 2030 Improve the energy efficiency of industrial processes by increasing the number of ISO 50001-certified sites (111 sites in 2024) Increase the share of low-carbon electricity purchased (61% in 2024) Increase the number of sites equipped with solar panels (13 farms and 7 light solar systems) Integration of CO2eq. targets and reduction action plans into the project development process for new programs Increase in the number of project development employees trained in product carbon footprinting and CAP 50 (1822) Increase in approved CAP 50 investments (54.7 million euros at the end of 2024) Site CAP 50 managers, Regional Operations and Divisions The Valeo Group has committed to invest 400 million euros by 2030 to decarbonize its 100 sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. Scope 3 actions self-financed or financed by customers SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 228 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Setting environmental targets and metrics Environmental metrics under the responsibility of HSE teams(1) Targets are set over a five-year period from a base year, based on achievable estimates. These targets are set by the Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Director and submitted to the Group Executive Committee for review and validation at the beginning of each five-year period. They are then broken down on a straight-line basis for each year of the period. Metrics are reviewed annually. Other environmental metrics(2) Targets and metrics related to the Group’s other environmental challenges, particularly in terms of circular economy, contribution to carbon neutrality, climate change adaptation and mitigation, are the responsibility of the 4R, CAP 50, R&D and Purchasing networks, in coordination with Sustainable Development. 4.2.2 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.1 Context Measuring sustainability The national and European legal frameworks and growing number of initiatives geared toward measuring business sustainability (TCFD, EFRAG, Platform on Sustainable Finance, etc.) are increasing the transparency of companies as they measure the sustainability of their business models and report on related indicators. A key component of the European Commission’s action plan on sustainable finance aimed at redirecting capital flows toward a more sustainable economy, the European Taxonomy Regulation(3) is part of this process. The European Taxonomy, a classification system for environmentally ""sustainable"" economic activities, is a major step toward the European Union’s objective of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. 4.2.2.2 Summary of KPIs In the following section, Valeo, as a non-financial undertaking, presents the share of the Group’s sales (turnover), capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) in 2024 related to economic activities that are eligible for the European Taxonomy under the six objectives, in accordance with Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation. The 2024 reporting includes new disclosure requirements for alignment with activity 3.18, on which Valeo already voluntarily reported in 2023, as well as the following four environmental objectives: • sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources; • transition to a circular economy; • pollution prevention and control; • protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. To meet the regulatory alignment requirements, Valeo analyzed its compliance with the substantial contribution criteria, the generic criteria of the “do no significant harm” principle as regards climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, transition to a circular economy, pollution prevention and control, protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems, and the minimum safeguards in respect of human rights. This analysis showed that Valeo’s eligible activities are aligned with these generic criteria. The regulatory tables respecting the format required by the Annexes to the Taxonomy Regulation, are presented in the dedicated section below. Eligibility Based on Valeo’s analyses, as set out below, the Taxonomy-eligible KPIs in 2024 are as follows: Turnover CapEx OpEx 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 PROPORTION ELIGIBLE FOR THE TAXONOMY 17.5% 21.0% 15.0% 14.0% 20.6% 19.4% Climate change mitigation 3.4 Manufacture of batteries 2.7% 4.6% 5.9% 5.1% 4.2% 5.1% 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components 4.6% 6.9% 6.8% 6.4% 14.1% 12.0% 3.6 Manufacture of other low carbon technologies 8.1% 7.5% 1.4% 1.8% 2.4% 2.3% 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles —% —% 0.9% 0.6% —% —% Transition to a circular economy 5.1 Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing 0.3% 0.2% —% 0.1% —% —% 5.2 Sale of spare parts 1.8% 1.7% —% —% —% —% PROPORTION NOT ELIGIBLE FOR THE TAXONOMY 82.5% 79.0% 85.0% 86.0% 79.4% 80.6% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 206 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) Metrics related to the following ESRS: E1 – Scope 1 & 2 emissions, E2, E3 and E5 – including waste. (2) Metrics related to the following ESRS: E1 – Scope 3 emissions, E4 and E5 – excluding waste. (3) Regulation (EU) 2020/852 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088."
"The scope of Valeo products included in each Taxonomy-eligible economic activity in 2024 is the same as in 2023. The proportion of sales (turnover) from Taxonomy-eligible activities decreased by 3.5 percentage points compared with 2023, attributable equally to activities 3.4 (down 43%) and 3.18 (down 34%). This decrease reflects an unfavorable market environment, mainly attributable to significantly lower-than- expected sales volumes of high-voltage electrical components, affecting both battery thermal solutions (activity 3.4) and essential components for zero-emission vehicles (activity 3.18). Sales of hybridization solutions and other components aimed at substantial CO2 emissions reductions (activity 3.6) increased slightly (4%). The proportion of sales from remanufacturing activities, although still small in relation to total sales, increased by 5 percentage points year on year, in line with the Group’s circular economy strategy. The proportion of Taxonomy-eligible CapEx increased slightly compared with 2023 (1 percentage point), driven mainly by increased capital expenditure for activities 3.4 and 3.18. The slight increase in the proportion of Taxonomy-eligible OpEx (1.2 percentage points) was due primarily to more granular identification of non-capitalized research and development expenses for activity 3.18, despite a decline in such expenses for activity 3.4. Alignment Based on Valeo’s analyses, as set out below, the Taxonomy-aligned KPIs in 2024 are as follows: Turnover CapEx OpEx 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 PROPORTION ALIGNED WITH THE TAXONOMY 17.5% 19.0% 14.1% 13.2% 20.6% 19.4% Climate change mitigation 3.4 Manufacture of batteries 2.7% 4.6% 5.9% 5.1% 4.2% 5.1% 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components 4.6% 6.9% 6.8% 6.4% 14.1% 12.0% 3.6 Manufacture of other low carbon technologies 8.1% 7.5% 1.4% 1.8% 2.4% 2.3% 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles —% —% —% —% —% —% Transition to a circular economy 5.1 Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing 0.3% —% —% 5.2 Sale of spare parts 1.8% —% —% PROPORTION NOT ALIGNED WITH THE TAXONOMY 82.5% 81.0% 85.9% 86.8% 79.4% 80.6% In 2024, the alignment of economic activities contributing to the transition to a circular economy served to offset the decline in sales from activities aligned with the climate change mitigation objective. As a result, the total share of sales (turnover) from Taxonomy-aligned activities decreased by 1.5 percentage points between 2023 and 2024. The Taxonomy-aligned CapEx and OpEx indicators followed the same slight upward trend as the Taxonomy-eligible activities contributing to climate change mitigation. 4.2.2.3 Analysis of Valeo’s economic activities eligible for the European Taxonomy For 2024, Valeo is reporting its economic activities eligible for the European Taxonomy: • for the climate change mitigation objective, according to the conditions described within activities 3.4 “Manufacture of batteries”, 3.18 “Manufacture of automotive and mobility components”, and 3.6 “Manufacture of other low carbon technologies”, as well as 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles”; • for the transition to a circular economy, according to the conditions described within activities 5.1 “Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing”, and 5.2 “Sale of spare parts”. Valeo does not report sales (turnover), CapEx, or OpEx for activity 1.2 “Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment” within the transition to a circular economy objective, considering it not applicable to its products for the following reasons: • It references Directives 2011/65 and 2012/19, which exclude automotive industry equipment. Automotive equipment falls under the End-of-Life Vehicles Directive (2000/53), which is not referenced in either the activity description or the draft FAQ published by the European Commission on November 29, 2024; • The technical substantial contribution criteria are based on regulatory frameworks and technical standards that are mostly not applicable to the automotive industry. As currently drafted, the technical criteria cannot be applied or transposed to automotive electronic equipment. In the event of further clarification, the Group may revise this position. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 207"
"The table below summarizes the activities considered by Valeo to be eligible in 2024: Eligible activity under the Climate Delegated Act Corresponding Valeo Group activity Relevant KPIs Turnover CapEx OpEx Climate change mitigation 3.4 Manufacture of batteries Manufacture of batteries and parts necessary for the operation of batteries ✘ ✘ ✘ 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components Manufacture of components essential for delivering and improving the environmental performance of electric vehicles ✘ ✘ ✘ 3.6 Manufacture of other low carbon technologies Technologies that provide substantial CO2 emissions reductions at the vehicle level and demonstrate a superior level of carbon performance compared to the best known market benchmark ✘ ✘ ✘ 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles* Leasing of company vehicles ✘ * This activity is allocated to the climate change mitigation objective, which Valeo considers to be the most relevant. Eligible activity under the Environment Delegated Act Corresponding Valeo Group activity Relevant KPIs Turnover CapEx OpEx Transition to a circular economy 5.1 Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing Remanufacturing of parts, i.e., their reconditioning via an industrial manufacturing process (alternators, starters and compressors) ✘ ✘ ✘ 5.2 Sale of spare parts Lighting business aftermarket ✘ ✘ ✘ Application to Valeo’s activities Valeo has performed a detailed analysis of all activities within the Group’s consolidated entities (see Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 14 “List of consolidated companies”, page 423). Companies over which the Group exercises joint control or significant influence are therefore excluded from the scope of analysis and from the calculation of the ratios defined by the Delegated Act supplementing Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation published on July 6, 2021. This analysis is based on the Regulation as available at December 31, 2024. Climate change mitigation objective Activity 3.4 “Manufacture of batteries” Products developed and sold by Valeo that are eligible for the Taxonomy under activity 3.4 include sales of all components intended for the operation of the battery in an electric or hybrid vehicle (battery thermal management module, packaging and casing, voltage converters, charging connector). Activity 3.18 “Manufacture of automotive and mobility components” Valeo products eligible for this category are those essential to the environmental performance of electric vehicles (i.e., with zero direct CO2 emissions): • either essential to the vehicle’s electrification (engine-related components); • or essential to improving its environmental performance (thanks to substantial weight reduction, improved aerodynamics or optimized energy efficiency). Valeo products eligible under both activity 3.4 and activity 3.18 are assigned to activity 3.4, in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation. Activity 3.6. “Manufacture of other low carbon technologies” Since 2022, given the multi-sectoral nature of the alignment criteria for activity 3.6, Valeo has elected to include this activity in its disclosures with a view to structuring a methodological proposal aimed at applying the Taxonomy in the context of its automotive products and methodologies. Valeo includes in this activity technologies for which it is possible to demonstrate a substantial contribution to CO2 emissions savings at vehicle level, including work to reduce upstream and downstream Scope 3 emissions. The factors allowing a carbon impact reduction of that nature (taking into account all stages of a product’s life cycle) are mainly, but not exclusively, a reduction in mass, a reduction in the carbon footprint of the materials used, and an improvement in the energy performance of the component in the use. This work is an integral part of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan (see section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, section 4.2.3.6 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies”, section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”, pages 223, 228, 229 and 234). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 208 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"To assess the eligibility of products for this activity, Valeo referred to multiple criteria including substantial contribution to vehicle weight reduction or to energy performance, reduction in CO2 emissions assessed on a full life cycle basis or the existence of substantial gains associated with products recognized as eco-innovations by the European Commission. Taxonomy-eligible products developed and sold by Valeo under activity 3.6 include propulsion and lighting technologies. Valeo products eligible under both activity 3.18 and activity 3.6 are assigned to activity 3.18, in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation. Activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles” In this activity, Valeo reports the amount of new leases for company vehicles made available to certain Group employees. Transition to a circular economy objective Activity 5.1 “Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing” Valeo has a longstanding business in remanufacturing (or renovating) automobile parts with a view to giving them a new life. These parts, collected from a network of garages and repair shops, undergo a comprehensive industrial remanufacturing process that gives them the same quality and performance as new parts. The range of remanufactured parts mainly includes alternators, starters and compressors, and is currently being expanded to include new products (cameras, bicycle batteries, inverters, etc.). Activity 5.2 “Sale of spare parts” Valeo sells spare parts to automakers and independent aftermarket operators. The eligibility criteria for this Taxonomy activity specify the associated NACE codes. Based on a prescriptive reading of these NACE codes, the aftermarket of Valeo’s lighting activity is the only one to fall under the Taxonomy sale of spare parts activity. 4.2.2.4 Methodology note Analysis of European Taxonomy financial KPIs Based on the Group’s management and consolidation data, Valeo can extract data relating to sales (turnover), investments (CapEx), as well as non-capitalized Research and Development expenditure, maintenance costs and short-term leases (OpEx), in accordance with the definitions in Article 8 of the Delegated Act, Annex I, Section 1.1. Intra-Group operations are not taken into account in the Taxonomy KPIs. Valeo’s allocation of turnover (sales), CapEx and OpEx to the various Taxonomy-eligible activities avoids double counting. Turnover Assumptions used to calculate eligibility The KPI’s numerator comprises the sales generated by the Group’s eligible activities. Reported sales figures are taken from Valeo’s accounting and consolidation systems. The Group also uses allocation keys derived from the sales database to estimate the allocation of sales of a product family based on the engine of the vehicles equipped. The denominator corresponds to the consolidated sales of the Valeo Group for the year ended December 31, 2024 (see Note 5.1 “Sales” to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document, page 371). Assumptions used to calculate alignment For the three activities of the climate change mitigation objective for which eligible turnover is reported, Valeo reports the same amounts for alignment, as the substantial contribution criteria, the generic criteria of the “do no significant harm” principle and compliance with the minimum safeguards are met (see below). With regard to the transition to a circular economy objective, for which alignment disclosure is required for the first time in respect of 2024, Valeo has performed an analysis of the substantial contribution criteria, the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle, and the minimum safeguards for the two activities for which eligible turnover is declared. This analysis showed that Valeo’s eligible activities are aligned with the transition to a circular economy objective. Capital expenditure (CapEx) Assumptions used to calculate eligibility The KPI's numerator comprises the Group’s capital expenditure, corresponding to purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including right-of-use assets (IFRS 16), recorded in 2024, before depreciation and amortization, that can be allocated to a Taxonomy activity. First, the Group analyzed capital expenditure related directly to eligible turnover-generating activities as detailed above. Second, the analysis of the new long-term leased assets recognized under IFRS 16 made it possible to identify the new right-of-use assets associated with company vehicles, to be reported in activity 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. The denominator of the Group’s capital expenditure KPI corresponds to the Group’s total capital expenditure relating to purchases of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, including right-of-use assets (IFRS 16), recorded in 2024, before depreciation and amortization (see Notes 7.2 “Other intangible assets” and 7.3 “Property, plant and equipment” to the consolidated financial statements in section 5.4.6 of this document, pages 389 to 393). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 209"
"Assumptions used to calculate alignment As with turnover, all CapEx eligible for Taxonomy activities 3.4, 3.18, 3.6, 5.1 and 5.2 has been reported as aligned. Regarding activity 6.5, the information on the motorization of company vehicles required to report alignment is not available in the Group’s financial systems. Given the immateriality of this activity for Valeo and in accordance with FAQ 13 published by the European Commission in October 2023 (C/2023/305), Valeo reports zero alignment for this activity in 2024. Operating expenditure (OpEx) Assumptions used to calculate eligibility Operating expenditure (OpEx) consists of: • non-capitalized Research and Development expenditure, i.e., gross R&D expenditure less capitalized development expenditure (see Note 7.2 “Other intangible assets” to the consolidated financial statements in section 5.4.6 of this document, page 389); • maintenance, upkeep and repair expenses; • short-term leases. The sum of these expenses represents the denominator of the OpEx KPI. The KPI’s numerator comprises operating expenses related to the Taxonomy activities set out above, whose turnover is eligible. Assumptions used to calculate alignment As with turnover, all OpEx eligible for taxonomy activities 3.4, 3.18, 3.6, 5.1 and 5.2 has been reported as aligned. Analysis of the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle and minimum safeguards The analysis of the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle and minimum safeguards covers Valeo’s entire product portfolio. Under the Regulation, these criteria only apply to Valeo’s Taxonomy-eligible activities. In 2024, to justify the alignment of Valeo’s eligible activities with the transition to a circular economy objective, an analysis was conducted with respect to the generic criterion of the “do no significant harm” principle as regards climate change mitigation, as well as an additional analysis with respect to spare parts for the generic criterion of the “do no significant harm” principle as regards pollution prevention and control. The analysis of the other criteria and the minimum safeguards is common to Valeo’s Taxonomy-eligible activities under the climate change mitigation and transition to a circular economy objectives. Details are provided below. Generic criteria relating to the ""do no significant harm"" principle Climate change mitigation Most of Valeo’s activities do not involve on-site production of heat or cold. Where this is the case (mainly furnaces), the use of gas results in GHG emissions below the limit of 270 gCO2eq./ kWh (global emission factor: 239 gCO2eq./kWh). In addition, the Group’s CAP 50 strategy (see section 4.2.3 “Climate strategy”, page 217) covers transportation-related emissions, including for remanufacturing activities. Climate change adaptation To strengthen its understanding of the impacts of climate change on the Group’s physical assets (physical risks), Valeo has carried out an analysis of its exposure to the impacts of climate change across its entire scope of consolidation, including the risks linked to changes in temperature and in the management of water, wind and soil resources in the SSP2-4.5 and SSP5-8.5 Representative Concentration Pathway scenarios for 2030 and 2050. This analysis, carried out using climate modeling tools developed by leading players in the field, served to characterize and assess the nature and likely intensity of the risk. It was carried out at the level of a plant or office, which at this stage is the most granular and relevant level available for a manufacturing company. The analysis is part of broader efforts to gain a better understanding of Valeo’s exposure to the risks associated with the consequences of climate change, which will regularly be supplemented by dedicated site audits and programs to strengthen on-site prevention tools and systems. Transition to a circular economy Valeo adopted a circular economy strategy in 2021. It is based on a 4R approach aimed at remanufacturing parts, i.e., reconditioning them via an industrial manufacturing process, repairing and recycling them, and ensuring that they remain robust over time. This approach draws on careful resource consumption, eco-design policies, and the management of waste and hazardous materials (see section 4.2.1 ""Environmental policies and commitments"", page 205). Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources Valeo has a longstanding policy on water management, which includes reducing water withdrawals and consumption, minimizing industrial effluents and gradually phasing out the use of water from natural sources where possible. Valeo has installed various equipment to limit the risk of pollution (non-return valves, retention zones, etc.) and to better understand the impact of its water consumption based on the geographic location of its sites. Some of these analyses are disclosed transparently via CDP Water and are available on the dedicated website. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 210 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Reputational opportunity The Group’s reputation is a key success and risk factor, not only with end users, but also with investors, in a highly capital- intensive business sector. The Group attaches great importance to transparency on sustainability in the context of the development of socially responsible investment (SRI) and non-financial rating criteria. Valeo has issued several sustainability-linked bonds since 2021, demonstrating the importance of transparency and reputation on decarbonization and climate for the financial markets. The European Investment Bank subscribed to one of these issues, attesting to the depth of the Group’s commitments. Valeo also published its first climate report in 2022, available on its website. 4.2.3.3.2 Adaptation of strategy and business model (DR E1-1) [ESRS E1 § 16(f)] The Group uses its resilience analysis to define how it needs to adapt and develop its entire product portfolio in response to climate transition scenarios. This analysis shows that the world's growing population and rising GDP are affecting demand for mobility. In the major Asian economies, demand for passenger vehicles continues to grow, complementing the development of public transportation and shared mobility solutions. Electric mobility is gradually becoming more widespread. Its use is increasing in all modes of transportation. To address climate change and its impact on human and economic activities, and in the face of high local pollution levels, cities and governments are tending to tighten their environmental regulations (sometimes even against possible attempts to slow environmental regulation). Against this backdrop, and faced with the quickening pace of social and technological change, these factors have prompted profound technological renewal and change in business models across the automotive sector. In response to this change, and as an industrial and technological player in the electric mobility market, Valeo has developed a business model and a risk management system that are consistent with the long-term objectives of progressive carbon neutrality for the mobility and transportation sector, in line with international methodological guidelines for understanding climate change risk. The adoption of electric technology brings considerable uncertainty, and the resilience of Valeo’s business model stems from the fact that 50% of its product portfolio is powertrain agnostic (see section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks”, page 219). The Group has received funding to support the implementation of the transition plan (see section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Investments and financing to support the implementation of the transition plan”, page 223). Against this backdrop, it is investing 400 million euros in its infrastructure to ensure that the CAP 50 strategy requirements are met. In preparing its consolidated financial statements, the Group carried out an assessment of its assets and economic activities in the light of its transition plan. To date, Valeo has not identified any material assets whose value or useful lives would be impacted by the actions envisioned under the CAP 50 Plan. However, such an impact could arise, for example if the Group decided to replace some of its equipment with more energy-efficient equipment before the end of its initial useful life (see Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change”, page 363). Thus, to date, no Valeo asset or economic activity has been identified as incompatible with a transition to a climate-neutral economy or requiring significant efforts to be compatible. Physical risks are factored into the climate assumptions formulated in the financial statements. Expenditure planned by the Group’s sites in the short term to implement adaptation measures was taken into account in the preparation of the 2024-2028 medium-term plan (see Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change”, page 363). The main transition risk facing the automotive industry results from the gradual shift to electric mobility. The Group has been preparing for this profound transformation of its industry for a long time, and this is reflected in its medium-term business plan, which is used as a basis for impairment testing of non-current assets (see Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change”, page 363). A simulation was carried out to assess the potential impact that a worst-case scenario for transition risks could have on the impairment tests carried out on cash-generating units and goodwill. These are described in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements (see Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 7.4.6 “Sensitivity of impairment tests to the impacts of climate change”), page 397). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 222 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"4.2.3.4 CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation (DR E1-1) [ESRS E1 § 14] Valeo has developed the CAP 50 plan, an ambitious plan to contribute to carbon neutrality, focused on the prevention and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Valeo’s short-term targets have been validated by the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) as being in line with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C for Scopes 1 & 2. IMPLEMENTATION OF VALEO’S TRANSITION PLAN (CAP 50) GHG EMISSION REDUCTION TARGETS (MtCO2) [ESRS E1 § 16] To achieve its GHG reduction target, Valeo is committed to reducing its Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 75% and its Scope 3 emissions by 15% by 2030. The 2050 trajectory is currently being defined. Due to the complexity of inter-sectoral harmonization, the methodology developed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) does not currently allow for emissions avoided by third parties thanks to products sold by a company to be taken into account. However, this does not call into question their positive contribution. Accordingly, the greenhouse gas reduction commitment submitted by Valeo to the SBTi does not include the carbon benefits of the use of its technologies by other parties. This aspect is therefore not yet included in the transition plan. However, as a developer of key electrification technologies for the decarbonization of mobility (48V and high-voltage electric motors, battery thermal management, etc.), Valeo’s objective was to highlight the benefits of these solutions in terms of greenhouse gas emission reductions (see Downstream Scope 3 in this section). Valeo refers to these benefits as ""emissions avoided by third parties"", or ""avoided emissions"". Decarbonization levers and key actions As a result of Valeo’s projected business growth, the effort to reduce total GHG emissions compared with the 2019 baseline is actually even greater than for the SBTi 2030 reduction targets. However, the Group confirms its absolute reduction targets for the three scopes on the basis of the decarbonization levers listed below for each emission scope: Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions The 2030 Scope 1 & 2 emission reduction targets are 825 ktCO2eq. compared with the 2019 baseline. Depending on the change in the Group's sales between now and 2030 and the distribution of Product Lines in the Valeo portfolio, this amount could practically double. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 223"
"The identified decarbonization levers are described below. The reservoirs of actions have already been identified, notably the supply of low-carbon energy, progress which is monitored on a quarterly basis. Valeo is committed to using more than 80% low-carbon electricity by 2030. According to the Group's market analysis, the earmarked budget would put Valeo on track to go beyond this target, up to around 3 TWh if necessary, thus contributing to an emission reduction of around 2 MtCO2e. ISO 50001 certification Between 2021 and 2024, Valeo continued to invest in transforming its sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions (Scopes 1 & 2), with a view to obtaining ISO 50001 certification for 105 sites. In conjunction with these energy performance projects, the proportion of low-carbon energy in the Group’s overall energy consumption will increase from 5.5% in 2019 to 80% by 2030, with a threshold of 50% from 2025. The actions taken by the sites to achieve this objective are detailed in section 4.2.3.6 “Climate-related actions and resources”, page 228. Upstream Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions The 2030 upstream Scope 3 emission reduction target is 1,400 ktCO2eq. compared with the 2019 baseline. Depending on the change in Group sales between now and 2030 and the distribution of Product Lines in the Valeo sales portfolio, this amount could more than double. The decarbonization levers identified for upstream Scope 3 are described below. The reservoirs of validated actions to be implemented cover 90% of upstream Scope 3 GHG emission reductions, and are monitored during quarterly CAP 50 committees. Thanks to the use of low-carbon materials (recycled, biosourced, etc.) and improvements in the energy efficiency of Valeo's suppliers, reductions of up to 3 MtCO2eq. have been identified. Valeo will also benefit from the decarbonization of its value chain, particularly the supply of electronic components, which could contribute to the reduction of over a million additional metric tons of CO2. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 224 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Upstream Scope 3 actions Valeo has also set the same greenhouse gas emissions objectives for its suppliers. To help reduce upstream Scope 3 emissions, Valeo implemented an extensive plan in 2022 to measure the emissions of its product platforms through life cycle assessments. This work has enabled the use of levers to reduce emissions, such as low-emission materials, weight reduction and support for suppliers to improve their carbon performance. In 2023, 80% of the Group’s product platforms were subject to a product carbon footprint based on life cycle assessments (using the Global Warming Potential indicator) and 43% defined quantified action plans for reduction solutions. In 2024, 100% of the Group’s product platforms were subject to a product carbon footprint and 75% defined quantified action plans for reduction solutions. Valeo continued to conduct life cycle assessments for all its platforms. It is now mandatory in all eligible development projects for the product carbon footprint to be managed with a view to achieving a target aligned with the Group’s commitment. Implementation of the life cycle assessment process continues with the training of R&D teams in new processes and tools, and the creation of new dedicated positions. Life cycle assessments by product line sold by Valeo will be completed in 2025. Downstream Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions The 2030 downstream Scope 3 emission reduction target is 5,850 ktCO2eq. compared with the 2019 baseline. Depending on the change in the Group sales between now and 2030, and the distribution among the Product Lines, this amount could more than double. The identified decarbonization levers are described below. The reservoirs already identified cover 85% of downstream Scope 3 GHG reductions and are monitored on a quarterly basis. Firstly, the use of Valeo products in a growing number of ever more efficient electric vehicles should reduce the Group's environmental impact by an amount of more than 10 million metric tons of CO2eq. In addition, the reservoirs of actions to be implemented are related to design changes, new concepts, and changes in the Valeo product portfolio, which could contribute to an additional reduction of up to 2 million metric tons of CO2eq. Downstream Scope 3 actions To reduce greenhouse gas emissions related to the end use of products, Valeo will continue to expand its range of technologies contributing to low-carbon mobility, in particular solutions for vehicle electrification, a field in which the Group is now a world leader. The Group is also continuing its efforts to use lighter materials and alternative technologies to reduce product weight and energy consumption. Valeo validated 34 biosourced and recycled resins, plus 9 recycled aluminum materials, which will help reduce the carbon footprint of its materials and products. Investments and financing to support the implementation of the transition plan Investments Valeo has committed to invest 400 million euros to decarbonize its sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. A process has been defined to identify investments related to activities associated with the CAP 50 plan. Investment thresholds per metric ton reduction of CO2eq are validated by the Chief Executive Officer and monitored quarterly. The CAP 50 Director provides a summary report of investments to all Divisions, together with the associated expected CO2eq. reductions. Financing Valeo issued an inaugural 600 million euro green bond in October 2023, followed by a second 850 million euro issue in April 2024. These green bonds were issued under the Green and Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework published in September 2023, available on Valeo’s website, in the Debt and rating section. The funds raised are used to finance projects and investments related to the portfolio of technologies contributing to vehicle electrification and meeting the technical criteria of the European Green Taxonomy. In February 2021, the European Investment Bank approved 600 million euros in funding for Valeo research and development projects focused specifically on technologies that reduce CO2 emissions and improve active vehicle safety. Projects related to the decarbonization of mobility, half of which will be financed from this amount, amount to 257 million euros. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 225"
"The Group has also issued two sustainability-linked bonds indexed to a December 2025 carbon footprint target, for 700 million euros in July 2021 and 750 million euros in November 2022. These two issues underline Valeo’s commitment to carbon neutrality. The characteristics of these financing arrangements are presented in Chapter 5, section 5.4.6 “Notes to the consolidated financial statements”, Notes 1.3.6 “Financing”, page 364, and 9.1.2.1 “Long-term debt”, page 402. Assessment of potential locked-in GHG emissions Following a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the potential locked-in GHG emissions of its main assets and products, Valeo has concluded that the level of these emissions does not jeopardize the achievement of its reduction targets. Objective or plan for aligning Taxonomy-eligible economic activities The share of the Group’s 2024 turnover, capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenses (OpEx) related to Taxonomy- eligible economic activities under the six objectives of Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation, are detailed in section 4.2.2.5 “Taxonomy KPI tables”, page 212. Integration of the transition plan into financial strategy and planning Since 2020, the Sustainable Development and External Affairs Department has also been in charge of the governance structure established for the launch, implementation and monitoring of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050. This steering committee brings together all the aforementioned departments and networks under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer. Its aim is to set annual objectives for the various contributing networks and to oversee the implementation of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan. To monitor the plan, Valeo has set annualized greenhouse gas emission reduction objectives, backed by action plans for the internal networks contributing to them. The achievement of these objectives is presented to the General Management at quarterly reviews, and since 2021 has been one of the criteria for the variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and more than 1,700 senior executives. Approval of the transition plan by governance The Board of Directors is the Group’s highest governance body in charge of the CAP 50 Plan and has delegated responsibility for its implementation and monitoring to the Governance, Appointments & Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (see section 4.1.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives”, page 191). Results of the implementation of the transition plan The targets and results achieved in 2024 are presented in section 4.2.3.8 “Energy consumption”, page 233 and 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”, page 234. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 226 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"4.2.3.5 Policies related to climate mitigation and adaptation (DR E1-2) [ESRS E1 § 24] - [ESRS E1 § 25] Policy Key content and objectives Scope and exclusions Most senior level in the undertaking organization accountable for the implementation of the policy Third-party standards or initiatives followed in implementing the policy Consideration of key stakeholder interests in policy development Made available to stakeholders Climate change adaptation Identify sites exposed to physical climate risk and implement associated adaptation measures. Ensure the resilience of all Group sites, people and activities to climate change. Anticipate the effects of climate change on sites and communities. General policy applicable to all sites External Affairs, Regulatory Affairs and Sustainable Development Director IPCC recommendations based on two IPCC global warming scenarios – RCP2-4.5 and RCP5-8.5; Data for physical risk assessment from global climate models, CMIP5 models, Copernicus ERA5, UNEP-Preview, World Earthquake Model, WRI, DE JBA, IIASA Water Futures and Solutions and ISIMIP models Industrial and HSE site managers, Risk & Insurance team The policy is for internal use only. GHG emission reduction (Mitigation) Contributing to carbon neutrality. Provide CAP 50 training to employees. Assess suppliers’ sustainability maturity. Stages 0, 1, 2, 3. Invest 400 million euros between 2021 and 2030 to decarbonize the 100 sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. General policy applicable to all sites Valeo’s Board of Directors and Vice-President, Sustainable Development and External Affairs GHG Protocol standards (corporate accounting and reporting, Scope 2 guidelines, Scope 3 calculation guidelines, estimating and reporting avoided emissions, calculation guidelines, corporate value chain standard (Scope 3)) NGOs, regulators, customers, suppliers, investors, ESG agencies, public sector, Valeo top management and employees The policy is for internal use only. Energy efficiency policy Improve the energy efficiency of industrial processes. Increase the share of low-carbon energy purchased to power sites. Produce low-carbon energy directly on site, increasing the share of renewable energies. Reduce the use of gas, fuel oil and other fossil fuels in all forms, as well as electricity. General policy applicable to all sites Group HSE Director Based on SBTi, ISO 50001 and ISO 14001 standards Internal stakeholders: – Sites – HSE, operations and purchasing teams External stakeholders: – Energy suppliers – Communities and local authorities The policy is for internal use only. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 227"
"4.2.3.6 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (DR E1-3) [ESRS E1 § 28] – [ESRS E1 § 29] The actions and resources related to climate change mitigation and adaptation are described below. LIST OF SIGNIFICANT ACTIONS TAKEN DURING THE YEAR AND THOSE PLANNED FOR THE FUTURE Challenge Key actions Scope Horizon Key targets Outcomes of actions Resources allocated Financial resources Adaptation to physical risks associated with climate change Vulnerability and adaptation audit at pilot sites identified as priorities and representative in terms of exposure Continuation of audits undertaken in 2024 Continuation of site- specific adaptation initiatives, complemented by specific action plans resulting from audits Development of a methodology based on site audits and its rollout across the company (finalization in 2025) Initial approach to quantifying physical risks Group 2030-2050 Ensure the resilience of all sites and business continuity in the face of climate phenomena The Group’s exposure is well identified following the exposure study (science-based). Some historically exposed sites have already started to adapt and partially improve their resilience (points identified during pilot audits). Ongoing vulnerability audits are helping to improve the understanding of vulnerabilities and define effective mitigation actions. Following these audits, a methodology adapted to the Group’s specific vulnerabilities will be implemented to enable non-audited sites to adopt the appropriate adaptation measures Site managers, industrial networks, HSE, HR Group Risk/ Insurance Expenditure on external adaptation audit services and monitoring of action plans Adaptation investment by sites Challenge Key actions Scope Horizon Key targets Outcomes of actions Resources allocated Financial resources Reduce GHG emissions Scope 1 & 2 actions related to energy consumption and improving processes and equipment Upstream Scope 3 actions: increase in the share of supplies from suppliers aligned with Valeo’s sustainability commitments, dedicated logistics actions, etc. Downstream Scope 3 actions: reduction in the weight of Valeo products, reduction in energy consumption Group 2025 – 2030 – 2050 Roll out CAP 50 training to employees Reduce carbon emissions in its own operations Assess the sustainability maturity of the supply chain (Stage 0,1,2,3) and pass on the Group’s CO2eq. emission reduction targets to suppliers Manage CO2eq. emission reductions from the product portfolio Ensure that 50% of electricity purchased in Asia (China and India), North America (Mexico) and Central Europe (Poland, Czech Republic and Hungary) is of guaranteed carbon-free origin by 2025 and 80% by 2030 Improve the energy efficiency of industrial processes by increasing the number of ISO 50001-certified sites (111 sites in 2024) Increase the share of low-carbon electricity purchased (61% in 2024) Increase the number of sites equipped with solar panels (13 farms and 7 light solar systems) Integration of CO2eq. targets and reduction action plans into the project development process for new programs Increase in the number of project development employees trained in product carbon footprinting and CAP 50 (1822) Increase in approved CAP 50 investments (54.7 million euros at the end of 2024) Site CAP 50 managers, Regional Operations and Divisions The Valeo Group has committed to invest 400 million euros by 2030 to decarbonize its 100 sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. Scope 3 actions self-financed or financed by customers SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 228 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Challenge Key actions Scope Horizon Key targets Outcomes of actions Resources allocated Financial resources Energy Improvement of site energy performance by following ISO 50001 international guidelines Performance of documented energy audits, establishment of technical building and centralized technical management, installation of dedicated meters for monitoring Group 2030-2050 40% of sites certified to ISO 50001 by 2025 and 70% by 2030 31% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions in 2025 vs. 2019 and 75% reduction in 2030 vs. 2019 105 ISO 50001- certified sites at end-2024 out of 164 sites in the reporting scope, i.e., 64%, vs. 80 sites in 2023 CAP 50 action plan resources CAP 50 action plan resources Adapting to physical risks As a first step, Valeo pays particular attention to analyzing the climate risk exposure of all new sites (soil analysis, climate data, etc.). This makes it possible for adaptation to be defined at the design stage. For example, for an industrial project and as part of an initial analysis of climate-related risks, it was decided to implement optimized solar exposure, a semi-buried structure, a south-facing blind façade, sensors to shut off air conditioning/heating, double glazing and a heat/sun screen, limited ceiling height in offices, rainwater recovery, enhanced thermal insulation (roof and walls), maximum natural lighting, LED artificial lighting, solar outdoor lighting, light-colored flooring, photovoltaic panels, and no fossil fuels. Some of the more mature sites have already implemented adaptation measures such as pumping systems to reduce excess water at the stormwater network point, roof drainage systems, employee peak heat management protocols, roof rainwater storage in underground tanks, internal wastewater treatment and reuse stations, solar panels, weed and brush control, cofferdams, temperature and humidity sensors, and emergency and business continuity plans. The aim is to cross-fertilize these best practices and to define additional priorities, measures and a complementary framework once the climate audits have been completed. [ESRS E1-3 § AR20] CAP 50 plan investments approved to date since monitoring began amount to 54.7 million euros. [ESRS E1-3 § AR21] Valeo has committed to invest 400 million euros to decarbonize its 100 sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. A process has been defined to identify investments related to CAP 50 activities. Investment thresholds per metric ton reduction of CO2eq. are validated by General Management and monitored quarterly. The CAP 50 Director provides a summary report of investments to all Divisions, together with the associated expected CO2eq. reductions. Ongoing access to finance at an affordable cost of capital can be critical for the implementation of the undertaking's actions, which include its adjustments to supply/demand changes or its related acquisitions and significant research and development (R&D) investments. [ESRS E1-3 § AR22] The amounts of OpEx and CapEx required to implement the actions and their consistency with the key performance indicators and the Taxonomy-related CapEx plan are presented in section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy”, page 206. 4.2.3.7 A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030 (DR E1-4) [ESRS E1 § 33] Methods for setting GHG emission reduction targets For compliance with the Paris Agreement’s 1.5°C target, the SBTi requires that the company’s reduction targets and actions cover 100% of Scope 1 & 2 impacts and 67% of Scope 3 impacts. Valeo has therefore taken into account the “Purchased goods and services” and “Use of sold products” Scope 3 categories, which together accounted for more than 90% of the Group’s Scope 3 emissions in 2019. These categories are defined as follows: • Purchased goods and services: Emissions related to the production of goods and services purchased by Valeo(1); • Use of sold products: Emissions related to the use of products sold by Valeo. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 229 (1) The calculation made and disclosed by Valeo includes all materials and components purchased and required for the production of goods sold to automakers. It excludes services, other goods and energy used by Valeo’s suppliers."
"Valeo has chosen 2019 as its baseline year as it was the last full year of activity before the Covid-19 pandemic. The assessment resulted in total global emissions of 49.6 MtCO2eq., broken down by scope as shown in the figure below: [ESRS E1 § 34] GHG emission reduction targets (absolute value and intensity) and Scopes 1, 2, & 3 reduction objectives At the beginning of 2021, Valeo submitted its emission reduction objectives to the Science Based Targets (SBTi) initiative, thereby committing to aligning its pathway with the objectives of the Paris Agreement: • Scopes 1 & 2: 75% reduction in absolute emissions by 2030 compared with 2019, with an intermediate reduction target of 44% by 2025, in line with the 1.5°C objective. • Scope 3: 15% reduction in absolute emissions by 2030 compared with 2019, for both purchased goods and services and use of products sold, with an intermediate reduction target of 8% by 2025, in line with the 2°C goal. In line with SBTi requirements, targets must be revalidated every five years to ensure they are in line with the latest SBTi criteria. Valeo will therefore have to resubmit its targets by 2026, and also intends to commit to SBTi's long-term Net-Zero objective. Through this approach, Valeo is reaffirming its commitment to the Business Ambition for 1.5°C initiative. In the event of significant changes likely to affect its targets, notably beyond a threshold of 5%, Valeo will recalculate and have its commitments revalidated. The main challenge in achieving these absolute targets is Valeo’s expected growth between 2019, 2025 and 2030, coupled with the fact that automotive product design is frozen a year before the start of series production. Given the Group’s expected growth, a further reduction of 50% would therefore be required to achieve the 2030 SBTi-validated target. To reflect the effort required to achieve these targets, Valeo has also chosen to express them in terms of intensity (tCO2eq./€m) compared with the ambition of its Move Up plan. SBTi TARGETS IN ABSOLUTE TERMS AND CHANGE VS 2019 BASELINE YEAR (MtCO2) 49.60 45.35 41.42 Scopes 1 & 2 Upstream Scope 3 Downstream Scope 3 2019 2025 2030 CAP50 PATHWAY IN INTENSITY AS A PERCENTAGE OF SALES (MOVE UP PLAN TARGET) AND CHANGE VS 2019 BASELINE YEAR (ktCO2/€m) 2.55 1.81 2.06 Scopes 1 & 2 Upstream Scope 3 Downstream Scope 3 2019 2024 2025 Emissions calculation methodologies Valeo uses the following methodologies to calculate Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions: • Direct emissions (Scope 1): Emissions are calculated based on the quantity of fuel consumed and emission factors specific to each fuel type. For example, emissions from natural gas combustion are calculated by multiplying the volume of gas consumed by its emission factor. Emission (kgCO2eq.) = Energy (kWh) x Emission factor (kgCO2eq./kWh). • Indirect energy-related emissions (Scope 2): Emissions are calculated based on the amount of electricity consumed and the electricity emission factors. This can be done using location-based or market-based methods, depending on data availability. Emission (kgCO2eq.) = Energy (kWh) x Emission factor 1 (kgCO2eq./kWh). The reporting cycle runs from October 1 of the prior year to September 30 of the reporting year. Emission factors are taken from the ADEME(1) database, among other sources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 230 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341. 33.10 8.04 0.28 35.80 8.90 0.65 1.10 9.50 39.00 -9% -17% 2.00 0.49 0.06 1.42 0.37 0.02 0.03 0.40 1.63 -29% -19%"
"The results were as follows: • update of the main risks of corruption and influence peddling to which the Group may be exposed; • development and implementation of the corresponding anti-corruption action plan. Valeo intends to continue its anti-corruption efforts, particularly in terms of employee training. [ESRS G1 § 18] Valeo’s internal whistleblowing system covers, among other things, reports of suspected, actual or proven acts that may constitute a felony or misdemeanor resulting directly or indirectly from Valeo’s activities. Thus, as described in section 4.4.3 “Corporate culture and business conduct”, page 291, allegations and/or incidents of corruption and influence peddling are systematically analyzed and investigated as soon as the Group is directly or indirectly involved. The operation of Valeo’s internal whistleblowing system, the processing of alerts and the process of communicating the results to the management bodies are described in section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns”, page 269. Any inappropriate behavior or breaches of the Code of Business Ethics brought to light by an investigation into allegations and/ or incidents of corruption and influence peddling give rise to an action plan including disciplinary sanctions, up to and including dismissal, where appropriate. Valeo also has a corruption risk management program for certain third parties, consisting of: • a policy for assessing and selecting third parties and agents; • the Business Partners Code of Conduct and its complementary anti-corruption manual; • specific mandatory training for certain third parties; • introductory training on the Code of Business Ethics and anti-corruption. Anti-corruption training [ESRS G1 § 21] To ensure an understanding of internal and external anti-corruption policies, tools and behaviors, Valeo has developed compulsory e-learning modules for new hires (people hired during the year), in particular Valeo’s Managers and Professionals. In 2024, 95% of the year’s new hires, including Managers and Professionals across all networks, completed and validated the Induction to Compliance Program, which includes a module dedicated to the anti-corruption program. In 2023, 99.75% of the target population attended annual anti-corruption training. The next annual campaign will be launched in 2025, drawing on the results of the corruption and influence peddling risk mapping updated during the reporting period. 4.4.6 Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery (DR G1-4) [ESRS G1 § 24] Valeo has not been convicted of any violation of anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. 4.4.7 Payment practices (DR G1-6) [ESRS G1 § 33] Valeo is not in a position to provide 2024 data on the average time taken to pay an invoice from the date on which the contractual or legal payment period begins, in number of days. The Group does not currently have the appropriate tools to produce data relating to past due payments in all of its operating regions. However, Valeo’s payment policy complies with the regulations in force in the various countries in which the Group operates. Notably, in France, Valeo signed the Charter of Intercompany Relations, now known as the Responsible Supplier Relations Charter, on January 10, 2012. The aim is to build balanced long-term relationships between large corporations and their suppliers, with the parties acknowledging and respecting each other’s rights and obligations. The charter requires that each signatory appoint a supplier representative to act as an internal mediator to facilitate the settlement of any disputes with suppliers and to help develop healthy long-term relationships. The internal mediator was appointed on March 13, 2012 and is still in place. In addition, the Supply Chain Finance program, implemented by the Finance network in collaboration with the Purchasing network, is based on the principle of reverse factoring, enabling suppliers to obtain favorable financing conditions. As of December 31, 2024, the Group was involved in three legal proceedings for late payment, including two in the Americas and one in Asia. These disputes represent a total amount of approximately 30,000 euros and the Group is committed to resolving them as quickly as possible. In addition, two late payment lawsuits were settled in Europe for a total amount of 700 euros in 2024. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Governance information – Business conduct (ESRS G1) UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 297"
"4.5 Appendices Appendix 1 – Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56) ESRS 2 BP-1 General basis for preparation of the sustainability statements 4.1.1.1 4.1.1.2 187 ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 4.1.1.3 190 ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-1 21 (d) The Board's gender diversity x x 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-2 Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking's administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-2 21 (e) Percentage of independent board members x 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.1.2.3 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 30 Statement on due diligence x 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting 4.1.2.5 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain 4.1.3.1 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) i Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities x x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) ii Involvement in activities related to chemical production x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iii Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iv Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.1.3.2 195 ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.1.3.3 200 ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.4.1 201 ESRS 2 IRO-2 Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 4.1.4.2 203 ESRS 2 GOV-3 E1 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.2.3.1 217 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 298 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 14 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 x 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 16 (g) Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned benchmarks x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-3 E1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.3.2 218 ESRS 2 IRO-1 E1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.3 219 ESRS E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.5 227 ESRS E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 4.2.3.6 228 ESRS E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.7 229 ESRS E1-4 34 GHG emission reduction targets x x x 4.2.3.7 230 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 38 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 37 Energy consumption and mix x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 40-43 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors x 4.2.3.8 234 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 234 ESRS E1-6 44 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions x x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-6 53-55 Gross GHG emissions intensity x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-7 GHG absorption and mitigation projects financed through carbon credits Not applicable ESRS E1-7 56 GHG removals and carbon credits x Not applicable ESRS E1-8 Internal carbon pricing 4.2.3.10 236 ESRS E1-9 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 66 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks x 4.2.3.11 236 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 299"
"ESRS E1-9 66 (a); 66 (c) Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk Location of significant assets at material physical risk x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 67 (c) Breakdown of the carrying value of the undertaking's real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 69 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate-related opportunities x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS IRO-1 E2 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.1 236 ESRS E2-1 Policies related to pollution 4.2.4.2 237 ESRS E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 239 ESRS E2-3 Targets related to pollution 4.2.4.4 241 ESRS E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-4 28 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil x 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 4.2.4.6 243 ESRS E2-6 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.7 244 ESRS IRO-1 E3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 244 ESRS E3-1 Policies related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 9 Water and marine resources x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 13 Dedicated policy x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 14 Sustainable oceans and seas x Not applicable ESRS E3-2 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 246 ESRS E3-3 Targets related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.4 247 ESRS E3-4 Number of accidents with lost time 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 28 (c) Total percentage of water recycled and reused x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 29 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-5 Anticipated financial effects from water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.6 248 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 300 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 4.2.6.1 248 ESRS 2-SBM-3 E4 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (a) i Activities negatively affecting biodiversity-sensitive areas x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (b) Breakdown of sites according to impacts and dependencies x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (c) Biodiversity-sensitive areas affected x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS IRO-1 E4 Description of the processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.3 249 ESRS E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-2 24 (b) Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (c) Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (d) Policy to prevent deforestation x 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 250 ESRS E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.6 251 ESRS E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 4.2.6.7 251 ESRS E4-6 Anticipated financial effects from biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.8 251 ESRS IRO-1 E5 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.1 252 ESRS E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.1 4.2.7.3.1 4.2.7.4.1 252 ESRS E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 4.2.7.3.2 4.2.7.4.2 253 ESRS E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.3 4.2.7.3.3 4.2.7.4.3 254 ESRS E5-4 Resource inflows 4.2.7.3.4 256 ESRS E5-5 Resource outflows 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 37 (d) Non-recycled waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 39 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 301"
"d) Taking action to address negative impacts on people and the environment. This is addressed under: i) ESRS 2 MDR-A; and ii) ESRS 2 MDR-A topical ESRS DR E1-3 ESRS E1 § 28-29 GHG emission reduction 4.2.3.6 Page 228 DR E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 Page 239 DR E3-2 Actions and resources related to water 4.2.5.3 Page 246 DR E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 Page 250 DR S1-4 Social actions: Working conditions 4.3.1.6 Page 276 DR S1-4 Social actions: Health and Safety 4.3.1.6 Page 272 DR S1-4 Social actions: Diversity, equity and inclusion 4.3.1.6 Page 273 DR S1-4 Social actions: Other work-related rights 4.3.1.6 Page 275 DR S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers/Duty-of-care plan 4.3.2.6 Page 284 DR S4-4 ESRS S4 § 31 Actions to prevent, mitigate or remediate material negative impacts on consumers and/or end-users 4.3.3.4.2 Page 288 DR G1-3 ESRS G1 § 16 Valeo’s anti-corruption program 4.4.5 Page 296 Assessment of suppliers’ sustainability practices 4.4.4 Page 294 e) Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts. This is addressed under: i) ESRS 2 MDR-M; ii) ESRS 2 MDR-T; and iii) Thematic ESRS: metrics and targets. DR E1-6 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050 4.2.3.9 Page 234 DR E2-3 Targets related to pollution DR E2-4 Air, water and soil pollution 4.2.4.4 4.2.4.5 Page 241 DR E3-3 Targets related to water DR E3-4 Water consumption 4.2.5.4 4.2.5.5 Page 247 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Working conditions 4.3.1.7 Page 276 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Health and safety DR S1-14 Health and safety metrics 4.3.1.7 4.3.1.16 Page 276 Page 281 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Equal treatment and opportunities for all 4.3.1.7 Page 277 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Other work-related rights 4.3.1.7 Page 277 ESRS S1 metrics 4.3.1.10 to 4.3.1.18 Pages 279 to 281 DR S2-5 Targets related to value chain workers 4.3.2.7 Page 286 Chapter Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 307"
"Appendix 3 – Table of information incorporated by reference DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.7 ""Sustainability auditor’s report"" Page 342 DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.1.2.4 “Statement on due diligence” Page 194 DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy” Page 206 ESRS 2 § 3 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 3 “Scope of consolidation” to the consolidated financial statements Page 365 ESRS 2 § 3 - 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.1.1.2.1 “Reporting of environmental data” paragraph “Changes in scope” Page 189 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.2 “Environmental information” Page 205 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.3 “Social information” Page 260 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.4 “Governance information – Business conduct” Page 290 ESRS 2 § 10 4.1.1.3.2 Page 190 Section 4.1.1.3.3 “Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty” Page 190 ESRS 2 § 11 4.1.1.3.3 Page 190 Section 4.1.1.2.1 “Reporting of environmental data” Page 189 ESRS 2 § 15 4.1.1.3.5 Page 190 Appendix 1 “Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 16)” Page 298 ESRS 2 § 16 4.1.1.3.6 Page 190 Appendix 3 “Table of information incorporated by reference” Page 308 ESRS 2 § 21 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2 “Composition of the Board of Directors, and preparation and organization of its work” Page 103 ESRS 2 § 21 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.1 ""Executive bodies"" Page 102 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work” Page 133 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work” Page 133 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.1 ""Executive bodies"" Page 102 ESRS 2 § 23 4.1.2.1 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors”, paragraph “Presentation of directors for the 2024 financial year” Page 104 ESRS 2 § 23 4.1.2.1 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Directors' training” Page 135 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Role of the Board of Directors” Page 136 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Committee activity during the year” Page 140 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Committee activity during the year” Page 140 ESRS 2 § 29 4.1.2.3 Page 194 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.3.1 ""Compensation of corporate officers"", paragraph ""Overview of the compensation policies for the corporate officers in respect of the 2024 financial year"", section 3.3.2 ""Compensation of corporate officers in respect of the 2024 financial year"", and section 3.3.3 ""Overall compensation of other Group senior executives"" Page 152 ESRS 2 § 30 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Appendix 2 – Mapping of information provided on the due diligence process Page 306 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Chapter 2 ""Risks and Risk Management"", and section 4.1.4 ""Impact, risk and opportunity management"" Pages 81 and 201 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph ""Other work-related rights"" Page 267 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Health and safety” Page 266 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 308 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.2.4 “Pollution” Page 236 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Appendix 2 – Mapping of information provided on the due diligence process Page 306 ESRS 2 § 36 4.1.2.5 Page 195 Chapter 2 ""Risks and Risk Management"", section 2.3 ""Internal control and risk management"" Page 93 ESRS 2 § 36 4.1.2.5 Page 195 Section 4.7 ""Report on the certification of Sustainability and Taxonomy information” Page 342 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Chapter 1, section 1.4 ""Operational organization"" Page 55 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Management report “Group positioning” Page 42 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, paragraph “Value chain and dependency analysis” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.3 “Strategy and business model” Page 195 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.4 “Impact, risk and opportunity management” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.3 “Strategy and business model” Page 195 ESRS 2 § 49 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 53 4.1.4.1 Page 201 Section 2.1 “Risk factors” Page 82 ESRS 2 § 56 4.1.4.2 Page 203 Appendix 1 “Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56)” Page 298 ESRS 2 § 59 4.1.4.2 Page 203 Chapter 4 “Sustainability Report”, section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify material sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities”, paragraph “Methodology and assessment process” Page 201 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.3 Page 203 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 14 ""List of consolidated companies"" Page 423 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.3 Page 208 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, section 4.2.3.6 “Climate-related actions and resources”, section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”) Pages 223, 228, 229, 234 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 209 Note 5.1 ""Sales"" to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Page 371 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 209 Notes 7.2 ""Other intangible assets"" and 7.3 ""Property, plant and equipment"" to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Pages 389 to 393 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Note 7.2 ""Other intangible assets"" to the consolidated financial statements, presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Page 389 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Section 4.2.3 “Climate strategy” Page 217 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments” Page 205 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 211 Section 4.2.6.4 “Policies related to biodiversity” Page 250 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.6 Page 216 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Financing” Page 223 ESRS E1 4.2.3 Page 217 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation” Page 223 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 309"
"ESRS E1 § 13 4.2.3.1 Page 217 Section 4.1.2.3 “Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes” Page 194 ESRS E1 § 19 4.2.3.2 Page 218 Appendix 4 – GRI – SASB – TCFD cross-reference tables Page 315 ESRS E1 § 19 4.2.3.2 Page 218 Section 4.2.3.3.1 ""Analysis of physical and transition risks"" Section 4.2.3.3.2 ""Adaptation of strategy and business model"" Pages 219, 222 ESRS E1 § 20 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E1 § 21 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E1 § 21 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Sections 4.2.3.2 ""Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model"", and 4.1.3.3 ""Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model"" Pages 218, 200 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks” Page 219 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Investments and funding to support the implementation of the transition plan"" Page 223 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 7.4.6 “Sensitivity of impairment tests to the impacts of climate change” Page 397 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 224 Section 4.2.3.6 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies” Page 228 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6 “Notes to the consolidated financial statements”, Notes 1.3.6 “Financing” and 9.1.2.1 “Long-term debt” Pages 364, 402 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.2.2.5 “Taxonomy KPI tables” Page 212 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.1.2 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives” Page 191 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.2.3.8 “Energy consumption” and section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050” Pages 233, 234 ESRS E1 § 29 4.2.3.6 Page 229 Section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy” Page 206 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 231 Section 4.2.3.9 ""Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050” Page 234 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 232 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation” Page 223 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 232 Section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks” Page 219 ESRS E1 § 47 4.2.3.9 Page 234 Section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030” Page 229 ESRS E1 § 50 4.2.3.9 Page 234 Section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030” Page 229 ESRS E2/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.4.1 Page 237 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E2/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.4.1 Page 237 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E2-1 § 12 to 15 4.2.4.2 Page 237 Section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments” Page 205 ESRS E2-1 § 12 to 15 4.2.4.2 Page 238 Section 4.2.7.4 “Waste” Page 257 ESRS E2 § 19 4.2.4.3 Page 240 Section 4.2.7.4 “Waste” Page 257 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 310 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.2.3.3.1 ""Analysis of physical and transition risks"", paragraph “Physical risks - Analysis methodology"" Page 219 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 16 4.2.6.2 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 17 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E4 § 17 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E4 § 19 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 19 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 249 ESRS E4 § 23 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 24 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 24 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 35 4.2.6.7 Page 251 Section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 249 ESRS E5 § 11 4.2.7.1 Page 252 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E5 § 11 4.2.7.1 Page 252 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E5 § 14 - 15 4.2.7.2.1 Page 253 Section 4.2.5 ""Water resources"" and section 4.2.7.4 ""Waste"" Pages 244,257 ESRS E5 § 35 4.2.7.2.4 Page 255 Section 4.2.7.2.2 “Actions and resources related to circular economy” Page 253 ESRS E5 § 16 4.2.7.4.1 Page 257 Section 4.2.7.2.1 “Policies related to circular economy – 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 16 4.2.7.4.2 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.2 “Circular economy: 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 23 - 24 4.2.7.4.3 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.2 “Circular economy: 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 23-24 4.2.7.4.3 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.3 “Resource inflows” Page 256 ESRS E5-6 4.2.7.5 Page 259 Section 4.2.2.2 “Summary of KPIs” Page 206 ESRS S1 4 Page 260 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 12 4.3.1.1 Page 261 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 262 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 262 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.3 “The Group’s employee policy” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.6 “Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 262 Section 4.3.1.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 261 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 262 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 265 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 266 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 311"
"ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Diversity” Page 266 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Diversity” Page 266 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.1.2.4 “Statement on due diligence” Page 194 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 268 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 268 Section 4.3.1.3 “Freedom of association, the existence of works councils and the information, consultation and participation rights of workers” Page 265 ESRS S1 § 32 4.3.1.5 Page 269 Sections 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"" and 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"" in the following paragraphs ""Secure employment"", ""Working time"", ""Adequate wages"", ""Health and safety"", ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"", ""Employment and inclusion of people with disabilities"", ""Diversity, equity, inclusion"", ""Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace"", ""Training and skills development"" Pages 263, 270 ESRS S1 § 35 - 37 - 38 - 39 - 40 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Sections 4.3.1.1 ""Strong employee relations"" and 4.3.1.4 ""Commitments related to Valeo's own workforce"" Pages 261, 268 ESRS S1 § 41 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, and 4.3.3.4 “Impacts related to consumer and/or end-user safety” Pages 263, 288 ESRS S1 § 42 - 43 - 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Chapter 1, section 1.6.9 “Human Resources” Page 79 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Employee Engagement (EE) roadmaps"" Page 263 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Training and skills development"" Page 275 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.4 “Commitments related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 268 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.12 ""Adequate wages"" Page 280 ESRS S1 § 43 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 43 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Social dialogue"" Page 271 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 272 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Work-life balance"" Page 271 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 272 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Health and safety”, page XXX); Page 266 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Chapter 3, section 3.3.1 “Compensation policies for corporate officers”, paragraph “Overview of the compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer in respect of the 2024 financial year” Page 152 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Employment and inclusion of people with disabilities"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 274 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Diversity, Equity, Inclusion"" Page 273 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Diversity, Equity, Inclusion"" Page 273 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.6 “Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace” Page 275 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 312 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3 Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ESRS E2-3 22 AR19 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.4.4 ESRS E3-3 22 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.5.4 ESRS E4-3 27 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 ESRS E5-3 23 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.7.2.3 ESRS S1-4 37 Action plans and resources to manage its material impacts, risks, and opportunities related to its own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 46 AR50- AR52 Targets set to manage material impacts, risks and opportunities related to own workforce 4.3.1.7 3-1 a-i Process to determine material topics ESRS 2 BP-1 5c AR1 Disclosure of extent to which sustainability statement covers upstream and downstream value chain 4.1.1.1 3-3 e-iii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33c Disclosure of how far undertaking has progressed in efforts during reporting period 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-iv Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33d Aims for continued improvement 4.3.1.6 3-3 a to b Management of material topics ESRS S1-17 104a AR105 Number of severe human rights issues and incidents connected to own workforce 4.3.1.19 3-3 b Management of material topics ESRS E2.IRO-1 11c AR9 Disclosure of results of materiality assessment (pollution) 4.2.4.1 3-3 c Management of material topics ESRS E1-2 25 AR16- AR18 Sustainability matters addressed by policy for climate change 4.2.3.5 ESRS S1-1 24a Specific policies aimed at elimination of discrimination are in place 3-3 d-i to ii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33a Disclosure of general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 d-i to iii Management of material topics ESRS E2-2 19 AR14 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which resources can be allocated to (pollution) 4.2.4.3 ESRS S1-1 24d How these policies are implemented through specific procedures to ensure discrimination is prevented, mitigated and acted upon once detected, as well as to advance diversity and inclusion in general. 4.3.1.3 3-3 d-ii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38b Disclosure on whether and how action has been taken to provide or enable remedy in relation to actual material impact 4.3.1.6 3-3 d-iii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38c Description of additional initiatives or actions with primary purpose of delivering positive impacts for own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR33b Disclosure of initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 321"
"3-3 e-i Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38d AR38- AR39 Description of how effectiveness of actions and initiatives in delivering outcomes for own workforce is tracked and assessed 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-ii; Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation ESRS E1-4 33 Disclosure of how GHG emissions reduction targets and (or) any other targets have been set to manage material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.7 3-3 f Management of material topics ESRS S1-2 27 Disclosure of whether and how perspectives of own workforce inform decisions or activities aimed at managing actual and potential impacts 4.3.1.4 ESRS S1-4 39 AR34 Description of process through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in response to particular actual or potential negative impact on own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 47b Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in tracking performance against targets 4.3.1.7 ESRS S1-5 47c Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in identifying lessons or improvements as result of undertaking’s performance 4.3.1.7 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-a Management of material topics ESRS SBM-3 14b Material negative impacts occurrence (own workforce) 4.3.1.2 ESRS SBM-3 14c Description of activities that result in positive impacts and types of employees and non-employees in its own workforce that are positively affected or could be positively affected 4.3.1.2 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-d Management of material topics ESRS E3-2 18 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which action and resources can be allocated to (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.3 ESRS S1-4 43 Disclosure of resources allocated to the management of material impacts 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR48 Description of internal functions that are involved in managing impacts and types of action taken by internal functions to address negative and advance positive impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Management of material topics ESRS E1-4 34e-16a AR26 GHG emission reduction target is science based and compatible with limiting global warming to one and half degrees Celsius 4.2.3.7 ESRS E2-3 25 Pollution-related target is mandatory (required by legislation)/voluntary 4.2.4.4 3-3; 303-1, 303-1c Management of material topics; Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-2 17 AR19- AR21 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 GRI 3; 306 Material Topics 2021; Waste 2020 3-3; 306-2 306-2-a Management of material topics; Management of significant waste-related impacts ESRS E5-2 19 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 GRI 3; 403 Material Topics 2021; Occupational Health and Safety 2018 3-3; 403-9 to 10 3-3- d-I; 403-9- c-iii; 403-9-d; 403-10- c-iii Management of material topics; Work-related injuries; Work-related ill health ESRS S1-4 38a Description of action taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate negative impacts on own workforce 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 322 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3; 408; 409 Material Topics 2021; Child Labor 2016; Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 3-3; 408-1; 409-1 3-3-c; 408-1-c; 409-1-b Management of material topics; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ESRS S1-1 22 Policies explicitly address trafficking in human beings, forced labor or compulsory labor and child labor 4.3.1.3 GRI 3; GRI 201 Material Topics 2021; Economic Performance 2016 3-3 201-2 a-iv to v Management of material topics; Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ESRS E1-3 28 Actions and Resources related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.6 GRI 301 Materials 2016 301-1 a Materials used by weight or volume ESRS E5-4 31a Overall total weight of products and technical and biological materials used during the reporting period 4.2.7.3.4 301-1 to 2 301-1-2.1. 4; 301-2-2.3 Materials used by weight or volume; Recycled input materials used ESRS E5-4 32 AR24 Description of methodologies used to calculate data and key assumptions used 4.2.7.3.4 GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 a Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 38a AR33 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38b AR33 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38c AR33 Fuel consumption from natural gas 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38d AR33 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 b Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37ci Fuel consumption from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37ciii Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 4.2.3.8 302-1 c Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37cii Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38e AR33 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 e Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37 AR35 Total energy consumption 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37a AR33 Total energy consumption from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37b Total energy consumption from nuclear sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37c Total energy consumption from renewable 4.2.3.8 302-3 a to d Energy intensity ESRS E1-5 40 AR36 Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors (total energy consumption per net revenue) 4.2.3.8 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 323"
"GRI 303 Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 a to b Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS IRO-1 8a AR1- AR15 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources- related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 303-1 c Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS IRO-1 8b Disclosure of how consultations have been conducted (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.1 303-1 d Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-3 24 AR22 (Local) ecological threshold and entity-specific allocation were taken into consideration when setting water and marine resources target 4.2.5.4 ESRS E3-3 25 Adopted and presented water and marine resources-related target is mandatory (based on legislation) 4.2.5.4 303-3 a Water withdrawal ESRS E3-4 AR32 Total water withdrawals 4.2.5.5 303-4 a Water discharge ESRS E3-4 AR32 Total water discharges 4.2.5.5 303-5 a Water consumption E3-4 28a Total water consumption 4.2.5.5 303-5 b Water consumption ESRS E3-4 28b AR28 Total water consumption in areas at water risk, including areas of high-water stress 4.2.5.5 303-5 d Water consumption ESRS E3-4 28e AR29 Disclosure of contextual information regarding water consumption 4.2.5.5 GRI 304 Biodiversity 2016 304-1 a-iv Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ESRS E4-5 35 Number of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that undertaking is negatively affecting 4.2.6.7 ESRS IRO-1 19a AR7d Activities negatively affecting biodiversity sensitive areas 4.2.6.3 ESRS IRO-1 Undertaking has sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas 4.2.6.2 ESRS SBM-3 16aii Breakdown of material sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive area 4.2.6.2 304-1 to 2 304-1-a-v; 304-2-b GHG emissions intensity ESRS E4-5 35 Area of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that undertaking is negatively affecting 4.2.6.7 304-2 a Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity ESRS SBM-3 16ai Activities related to sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas negatively affect these areas where conclusions or necessary mitigation measures have not been implemented or are ongoing 4.2.6.2 304-2 a-i; a-v to vi Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity ESRS E4-5 38 Disclosure of metrics considered relevant (land-use change, freshwater-use change and (or) sea-use change) 4.2.6.7 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 324 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 a Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 48a AR43 Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 1-d; 2-d; 3-e; 5-c Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions; Reduction of GHG emissions ESRS E1-4 34c Disclosure of past progress made in meeting target before current base year 4.2.3.7 305-1 to 3 1-e to g; 2-e to g; 3-f to g Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR39b Disclosure of methodologies, significant assumptions and emissions factors used to calculate or measure GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 2.2.5; 2.4.5; 2.6.5 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR41 GHG emissions - by country, operating segments, economic activity, subsidiary, GHG category or source type 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 305-1-a; 305-2-a; 305-2-b; 305-3-a Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 44 AR39 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 44-52a AR47 Total GHG emissions (location-based) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 44-52b AR47 Total GHG emissions (market-based) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 52a AR47 Scope 2 location-based 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 52b AR47 Scope 2 market-based 4.2.3.9 305-2 a Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 49a AR45 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-2 b Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 49b AR45 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-3 a Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 51 AR46 Gross Scope 3 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 325"
"305-3 d Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR46i List of Scope 3 GHG emissions categories included in inventory 4.2.3.9 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR46d Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 AR46i Disclosure of why Scope 3 GHG emissions category has been excluded 4.2.3.9 305-4 a to c GHG emissions intensity ESRS E1-6 53 AR53 GHG emissions intensity, location-based (total GHG emissions per net revenue) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 GHG emissions intensity, market-based (total GHG emissions per net revenue) 4.2.3.9 305-5 a to d GHG emission reduction ESRS E1-4 34a-34b Absolute value of location-based Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of Scope 3 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of market-based Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of total Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 305-7 2.14.2 Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 28a AR21- AR22 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 305-7 a Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 28a AR21- AR22 Emissions to air by pollutant 4.2.4.5 305-7 b to c Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 30b Description of measurement methodologies (pollution of air, water and soil) 4.2.4.5 ESRS E2-4 30c Description of process(es) to collect data for pollution-related accounting and reporting 4.2.4.5 GRI 305-5 a GHG emission reduction ESRS E1-3 29b Achieved GHG emission reductions 4.2.3.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 326 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 a Waste by type and disposal method ESRS E5-2 20e AR13 Description of actions taken to prevent waste generation 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-2 20f Description of optimisation of waste management in line with the waste hierarchy 4.2.7.2.2 306-2 c Waste by type and disposal method ESRS IRO-1 11a AR1- AR6 Disclosure of methodologies, assumptions and tools used in the screening in order to identify actual and potential impacts, risks and opportunities in own operations and upstream and downstream value chain 4.2.7.1 306-2-a Waste by type and disposal method ESRS E5-2 20b Description of higher rates of use of secondary raw materials (recyclates) 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-2 20c Description of application of circular design 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-2 AR12 Information about collective action on development of collaborations or initiatives increasing circularity of products and materials 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-2 AR13a Description of contribution to circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-5 36b Disclosure of the reparability of products 4.2.7.2.4 306-2 to 5 306-2-c; 306-3-b; 306-4-e; 306-5-e Waste by type and disposal method; Significant spills; Transport of hazardous waste; Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff ESRS E5-5 40 AR33 Description of methodologies used to calculate data (waste generated) 4.2.7.4.4 306-3 a Significant spills ESRS E5-5 37a Total amount of waste generated 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 39 Total amount of hazardous waste 4.2.7.4.4 306-3 to 4; 305-5 3-a; 4-a; 5-a Significant spills; Reduction of GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions; GHG emissions intensity ESRS E5-5 38 Disclosure of composition of waste 4.2.7.4.4 306-3 to 5 306-3-a; 306-4-a; 306-5-a Significant spills; Transport of hazardous waste; Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff ESRS E5-5 38a Disclosure of waste streams relevant to undertaking's sector or activities 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 38b Disclosure of materials that are present in waste 4.2.7.4.4 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 327"
"306-4 c-iii Transport of hazardous waste ESRS E5-5 37b Hazardous waste diverted from disposal 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37bi Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to preparation for reuse 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37bii Hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to recycling 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to recycling 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37biii AR31 Hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to other recovery operations 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to other recovery operations 4.2.7.4.4 306-5 c-iv Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff ESRS E5-5 37c Hazardous waste directed to disposal 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37ci Hazardous waste directed to disposal by incineration 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal by incineration 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37cii Hazardous waste directed to disposal by landfilling 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal by landfilling 4.2.7.4.4 GRI 401 Employment 2016 401-1 b New employee hires and employee turnover ESRS S1-6 50c Percentage of employee turnover 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50c AR59 Number of employee who have left undertaking 4.3.1.8 401-2 a-ii to v; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 75 AR75 Social protection employees by country [table] by types of events and type of employees 4.3.1.13 401-2 a-ii; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 74a All employees in own workforce are covered by social protection, through public programs or through benefits offered, against loss of income due to sickness 4.3.1.13 401-2 a-iii; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 74c All employees in own workforce are covered by social protection, through public programs or through benefits offered, against loss of income due to employment injury and acquired disability 4.3.1.13 401-2 a-iv; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 74d All employees in own workforce are covered by social protection, through public programs or through benefits offered, against loss of income due to parental leave 4.3.1.13 401-2 a-v; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 74e All employees in own workforce are covered by social protection, through public programs or through benefits offered, against loss of income due to retirement 4.3.1.13 401-3 a Parental leave ESRS S1-15 93a AR96- AR97 Percentage of employees entitled to take family-related leave 4.3.1.17 401-3 b Parental leave ESRS S1-15 93b Percentage of entitled employees that took family-related leave by gender [table] 4.3.1.17 ESRS S1-15 Percentage of entitled employees that took family-related leave 4.3.1.17 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 328 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Valeo has chosen 2019 as its baseline year as it was the last full year of activity before the Covid-19 pandemic. The assessment resulted in total global emissions of 49.6 MtCO2eq., broken down by scope as shown in the figure below: [ESRS E1 § 34] GHG emission reduction targets (absolute value and intensity) and Scopes 1, 2, & 3 reduction objectives At the beginning of 2021, Valeo submitted its emission reduction objectives to the Science Based Targets (SBTi) initiative, thereby committing to aligning its pathway with the objectives of the Paris Agreement: • Scopes 1 & 2: 75% reduction in absolute emissions by 2030 compared with 2019, with an intermediate reduction target of 44% by 2025, in line with the 1.5°C objective. • Scope 3: 15% reduction in absolute emissions by 2030 compared with 2019, for both purchased goods and services and use of products sold, with an intermediate reduction target of 8% by 2025, in line with the 2°C goal. In line with SBTi requirements, targets must be revalidated every five years to ensure they are in line with the latest SBTi criteria. Valeo will therefore have to resubmit its targets by 2026, and also intends to commit to SBTi's long-term Net-Zero objective. Through this approach, Valeo is reaffirming its commitment to the Business Ambition for 1.5°C initiative. In the event of significant changes likely to affect its targets, notably beyond a threshold of 5%, Valeo will recalculate and have its commitments revalidated. The main challenge in achieving these absolute targets is Valeo’s expected growth between 2019, 2025 and 2030, coupled with the fact that automotive product design is frozen a year before the start of series production. Given the Group’s expected growth, a further reduction of 50% would therefore be required to achieve the 2030 SBTi-validated target. To reflect the effort required to achieve these targets, Valeo has also chosen to express them in terms of intensity (tCO2eq./€m) compared with the ambition of its Move Up plan. SBTi TARGETS IN ABSOLUTE TERMS AND CHANGE VS 2019 BASELINE YEAR (MtCO2) 49.60 45.35 41.42 Scopes 1 & 2 Upstream Scope 3 Downstream Scope 3 2019 2025 2030 CAP50 PATHWAY IN INTENSITY AS A PERCENTAGE OF SALES (MOVE UP PLAN TARGET) AND CHANGE VS 2019 BASELINE YEAR (ktCO2/€m) 2.55 1.81 2.06 Scopes 1 & 2 Upstream Scope 3 Downstream Scope 3 2019 2024 2025 Emissions calculation methodologies Valeo uses the following methodologies to calculate Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions: • Direct emissions (Scope 1): Emissions are calculated based on the quantity of fuel consumed and emission factors specific to each fuel type. For example, emissions from natural gas combustion are calculated by multiplying the volume of gas consumed by its emission factor. Emission (kgCO2eq.) = Energy (kWh) x Emission factor (kgCO2eq./kWh). • Indirect energy-related emissions (Scope 2): Emissions are calculated based on the amount of electricity consumed and the electricity emission factors. This can be done using location-based or market-based methods, depending on data availability. Emission (kgCO2eq.) = Energy (kWh) x Emission factor 1 (kgCO2eq./kWh). The reporting cycle runs from October 1 of the prior year to September 30 of the reporting year. Emission factors are taken from the ADEME(1) database, among other sources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 230 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341. 33.10 8.04 0.28 35.80 8.90 0.65 1.10 9.50 39.00 -9% -17% 2.00 0.49 0.06 1.42 0.37 0.02 0.03 0.40 1.63 -29% -19%"
"For the two Scope 3 categories selected, the calculation methodologies are as follows: 1. Purchased goods and services: The basic environmental impact assessment includes raw materials and electronics. Raw material: Emissions for each raw material are calculated based on gross mass and associated emission factors. Emission (kgCO2eq.) = Gross mass (kg) x Emission factor (kgCO2eq./kg). Emission factors are taken from databases such as the Worldsteel database or the Gabi life cycle tool (LCA for expert), among others. Electronics: The CO2 content of electronics is specific and cannot be accurately calculated using existing tools, as they do not provide sufficiently precise results for Valeo’s use of electronics. In addition, suppliers do not systematically disclose component-level information. Pending the availability of a sector-specific methodology or validated supplier data, Valeo has developed a specific methodology that integrates company supplier declarations, detailed material mass breakdowns by component and supplier data where available. 2. Upstream transportation and distribution: Emissions are calculated based on distances traveled, the weight of goods transported and the emission factors of the different modes of transportation. Valeo has decided to include this critical aspect in its reduction plan, going beyond the expectations of the SBTi. Emission (tCO2eq.) = Mass of goods (t) x Distance (km) x Emission factor (tCO2eq./t.km). Emission factors are taken from the GLEC (Global Logistics Emissions Council) Framework, among others. The reporting cycle runs from January 1 to December 31 of the reporting year. 3. Use of sold products: In the absence of a sector-specific methodology, Valeo, with the scientific support of EMISIA SA, has developed a methodology to assess the carbon impact of its products based on mass and energy consumption. Factors such as vehicle size, powertrain technology and region are taken into account to accurately estimate actual emissions. To reflect the effort required to achieve these targets, Valeo has also chosen to express them in terms of intensity (tCO2eq./€m) compared with the ambition of its Move Up plan. • Market-based direct emissions (Scope 1): Emissions intensity is calculated using total market-based CO2eq. emissions and total sales. Scope 1 market-based intensity (tCO2eq./million euros) = Market-based emissions (tCO2eq.)/total sales in millions of euros). • Location-based indirect energy-related emissions (Scope 2): Emissions intensity is calculated from total location-based CO2eq. emissions and total sales. Scope 2 location-based intensity (tCO2eq./million euros) = Location-based emissions (tCO2eq.)/total sales in millions of euros). • Upstream and downstream emissions (Scope 3): Emissions intensity is calculated from total Scope 3 CO2eq. emissions and total sales. Scope 3 intensity (tCO2eq./million euros) = Scope 3 emissions (tCO2eq)/total sales (millions of euros). The SBTi assessed Valeo’s formal submission in 2021 and, after careful review, approved the targets. The targets submitted for Scope 1 & 2 emissions were deemed to exceed the minimum ambition for the 1.5°C trajectory defined under the SBTi’s absolute contraction approach. The submission of Scope 3 emissions targets covered both direct and indirect emissions from use phases, and also exceeded the minimum requirements of the contraction method. A table summarizing the activities covered in GHG emission calculations for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 is provided in section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”, page 234. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 231"
"EMISSIONS AVOIDED THANKS TO VALEO TECHNOLOGIES (MtCO2) 0.0 7.4 13.6 2019 2025 2030 Definition and scope of emissions avoided Avoided emissions are defined as the GHG emission reductions achieved when Valeo products replace more polluting internal combustion engines (ICE). Valeo’s initial focus was on vehicle electrification, but it plans to extend the scope to all product categories. Guiding principles Relevance and accuracy: The Group ensures that emission reductions are clearly linked to its products, based on reliable and well-documented data. Transparency: The Group provides clear and comprehensive information on all underlying assumptions and methodologies. Prudence: The Group uses conservative estimates to avoid overestimating environmental benefits. Methodological steps Definition of the baseline: The automotive industry’s transition from nearly 100% internal combustion engines (ICE) to battery electric vehicles (BEV) is modeled over a 15-year period (2019-2035 in the EU27). Each BEV is assumed to replace an ICE vehicle. As vehicles have an average life of more than 16 years, no replacements are assumed during this transition period. Impact assessment Avoided emissions are calculated by comparing the well-to- wheel emissions of an average Class C ICE vehicle with those of a Class C BEV. The comparison uses the IEA sustainable development scenario for the average CO2 content of electricity worldwide. Lifetime emissions are based on CO2 intensity at the time of the vehicle’s sale. [ESRS E1-3 § AR30] Climate change mitigation actions, decarbonization levers, key actions and their contributions to achieving GHG emission reduction targets, broken down by Scopes 1, 2 & 3, as well as the role of new technologies in achieving the targets are detailed in section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, page 223. The Group’s climate scenarios are described in section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks”, page 219. The table below shows the Group’s progress from 2019 to 2024 in terms of its emissions reduction trajectory. Outcomes in 2024 and CAP 50 Plan targets The table below sets out the targets set for each of the approaches adopted by Valeo and the outcomes obtained in 2024. CAP 50 Plan kt eq. CO2 2019 2023 2024 Cible 2025 Cible 2030 Emissions trajectory established as part of the SBTi commitment and outcomes Scope 1 196 186 165 110 47 Scope 2 (including renewable energy purchases) 966 464 291 542 231 Upstream Scope 3 (purchased goods and services, and transportation and distribution) 9,479 8,317 7,874 8,854 8,057 Downstream Scope 3 (use of sold products) 39,000 36,200 30,490 35,800 33,150 Total emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) 49,640 45,168 38,820 45,305 41,485 Annual greenhouse gas emissions target Scopes 1, 2 & 3 49,640 46,684 45,987 Achievement of the annual target Valeo referred to the SBTi in setting its CAP 50 Plan 2030 targets. Reduction targets were calculated using the absolute contraction approach. Valeo has aligned its trajectory with a 1.5°C by 2050 scenario by setting targets to reduce Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 75% and Scope 3 emissions by 15% by 2030 compared with 2019. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 232 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 +84%"
"The significant reduction in emissions observed in 2024 compared with 2023 is the result of several factors: • The ongoing efforts made since the launch of the CAP 50 Plan, which have resulted in gradual and continuous reductions in Scope 1 & 2 emissions and upstream Scope 3 emissions since 2021; • The exceptional reduction in downstream Scope 3 emissions resulting from the 2-million-unit reduction in sales of the most energy-intensive product line (variable displacement air conditioning compressors for thermal propulsion); • The faster-than-expected reduction in the carbon content of electronic components and systems, resulting in a higher- than-expected drop in GHG emissions in product families containing higher electronics content; • To a lesser extent than the previous elements: the progress made in the design of products sold (and therefore their lightweighting), combined with a reduction in the energy consumption of these products, results in a reduction in CO2 emissions during their use phase (downstream Scope 3). The 2030 and 2025 targets are unchanged, as they are the initial benchmarks of the CAP 50 Plan. 4.2.3.8 Energy consumption (DR E1-5) [ESRS E1 § 37] – [ESRS E1 § 38] TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWh) Energy consumption and mix Unit 2023 2024 1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products MWh NS NS 2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products MWh 32,571 19,919 3) Fuel consumption from natural gas MWh 540,951 487,369 4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources MWh 72,903 68,352 5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources MWh 703,210 480,294 6) TOTAL FOSSIL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (CALCULATED AS THE SUM OF LINES 1 TO 5) MWh 1,349,635 1,055,934 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 48% 39% 7) Consumption from nuclear sources MWh 264,555 201,883 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 9% 8% 8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) MWh NS NS 9) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources MWh 1,193,076 1,417,095 10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy MWh 11,634 15,453 11) Total renewable energy consumption (calculated as the sum of lines 8 to 10) MWh 1,204,710 1,432,548 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption % 43% 53% TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (CALCULATED AS THE SUM OF LINES 6, 7 AND 11) MWh 2,818,900 2,690,365 The significant increase in renewable energy consumption is the result of obtaining renewable energy certificates and guarantees of origin in several countries. In addition, Valeo continued its actions to improve energy efficiency, such as the installation of automatic dimmers at the Skawina site (Poland), the replacement of compressors at the Chonburi site (Thailand) and the reduction of circulating water temperatures at the Wuhan site (China). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 233"
"[ESRS E1 § 39] - [ESRS E1 § 40] - [ESRS E1 § 41] ENERGY PRODUCTION (MWh) Non-renewable energy production and renewable energy production Unit 2023 2024 Non-renewable energy production MWh 0 0 Renewable energy production MWh 11,634 15,453 Energy intensity of activities in sectors with high climate impact (total energy consumption per net sales) MWh/€m 128 125 Total energy consumption from activities in sectors with high climate impact MWh 2,818,900 2,690,365 Valeo increased the number of solar panels installed on its sites in 2024, which made it possible to reduce the energy consumption of the POWER Division’s Turkish sites. [ESRS E1 § 42] Valeo’s operational activities are all considered to have a high climate impact. [ESRS E1 § 43] NET INCOME FROM ACTIVITIES IN HIGH CLIMATE IMPACT SECTORS Unit 2023 2024 Net income from activities in high climate impact sectors used to calculate energy intensity €m 22,044 21,492 Net income (other) €m 0 0 Total net income (financial statements) €m 22,044 21,492 4.2.3.9 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050 (DR E1-6) [ESRS E1 § 47] The SBTi defines materiality as a change of 5% or more in the base year GHG emissions recalculation. The Group has assessed the implications of this recalculation on its targets and has not identified a need to update the target as the change represents an impact of less than 5%. The methodology, assumptions and emission factors used to calculate Valeo’s GHG emissions are detailed in section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, page 229. [ESRS E1 § 50] Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions are presented on a consolidated basis at Group level. Valeo’s total GHG emissions differ from the total CAP 50 emissions presented in section 4.2.3.7, “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, page 229, insofar as it only takes into account certain categories of the GHG Protocol. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 234 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Setting environmental targets and metrics Environmental metrics under the responsibility of HSE teams(1) Targets are set over a five-year period from a base year, based on achievable estimates. These targets are set by the Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Director and submitted to the Group Executive Committee for review and validation at the beginning of each five-year period. They are then broken down on a straight-line basis for each year of the period. Metrics are reviewed annually. Other environmental metrics(2) Targets and metrics related to the Group’s other environmental challenges, particularly in terms of circular economy, contribution to carbon neutrality, climate change adaptation and mitigation, are the responsibility of the 4R, CAP 50, R&D and Purchasing networks, in coordination with Sustainable Development. 4.2.2 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.1 Context Measuring sustainability The national and European legal frameworks and growing number of initiatives geared toward measuring business sustainability (TCFD, EFRAG, Platform on Sustainable Finance, etc.) are increasing the transparency of companies as they measure the sustainability of their business models and report on related indicators. A key component of the European Commission’s action plan on sustainable finance aimed at redirecting capital flows toward a more sustainable economy, the European Taxonomy Regulation(3) is part of this process. The European Taxonomy, a classification system for environmentally ""sustainable"" economic activities, is a major step toward the European Union’s objective of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. 4.2.2.2 Summary of KPIs In the following section, Valeo, as a non-financial undertaking, presents the share of the Group’s sales (turnover), capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) in 2024 related to economic activities that are eligible for the European Taxonomy under the six objectives, in accordance with Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation. The 2024 reporting includes new disclosure requirements for alignment with activity 3.18, on which Valeo already voluntarily reported in 2023, as well as the following four environmental objectives: • sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources; • transition to a circular economy; • pollution prevention and control; • protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. To meet the regulatory alignment requirements, Valeo analyzed its compliance with the substantial contribution criteria, the generic criteria of the “do no significant harm” principle as regards climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, transition to a circular economy, pollution prevention and control, protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems, and the minimum safeguards in respect of human rights. This analysis showed that Valeo’s eligible activities are aligned with these generic criteria. The regulatory tables respecting the format required by the Annexes to the Taxonomy Regulation, are presented in the dedicated section below. Eligibility Based on Valeo’s analyses, as set out below, the Taxonomy-eligible KPIs in 2024 are as follows: Turnover CapEx OpEx 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 PROPORTION ELIGIBLE FOR THE TAXONOMY 17.5% 21.0% 15.0% 14.0% 20.6% 19.4% Climate change mitigation 3.4 Manufacture of batteries 2.7% 4.6% 5.9% 5.1% 4.2% 5.1% 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components 4.6% 6.9% 6.8% 6.4% 14.1% 12.0% 3.6 Manufacture of other low carbon technologies 8.1% 7.5% 1.4% 1.8% 2.4% 2.3% 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles —% —% 0.9% 0.6% —% —% Transition to a circular economy 5.1 Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing 0.3% 0.2% —% 0.1% —% —% 5.2 Sale of spare parts 1.8% 1.7% —% —% —% —% PROPORTION NOT ELIGIBLE FOR THE TAXONOMY 82.5% 79.0% 85.0% 86.0% 79.4% 80.6% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 206 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) Metrics related to the following ESRS: E1 – Scope 1 & 2 emissions, E2, E3 and E5 – including waste. (2) Metrics related to the following ESRS: E1 – Scope 3 emissions, E4 and E5 – excluding waste. (3) Regulation (EU) 2020/852 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088."
"The scope of Valeo products included in each Taxonomy-eligible economic activity in 2024 is the same as in 2023. The proportion of sales (turnover) from Taxonomy-eligible activities decreased by 3.5 percentage points compared with 2023, attributable equally to activities 3.4 (down 43%) and 3.18 (down 34%). This decrease reflects an unfavorable market environment, mainly attributable to significantly lower-than- expected sales volumes of high-voltage electrical components, affecting both battery thermal solutions (activity 3.4) and essential components for zero-emission vehicles (activity 3.18). Sales of hybridization solutions and other components aimed at substantial CO2 emissions reductions (activity 3.6) increased slightly (4%). The proportion of sales from remanufacturing activities, although still small in relation to total sales, increased by 5 percentage points year on year, in line with the Group’s circular economy strategy. The proportion of Taxonomy-eligible CapEx increased slightly compared with 2023 (1 percentage point), driven mainly by increased capital expenditure for activities 3.4 and 3.18. The slight increase in the proportion of Taxonomy-eligible OpEx (1.2 percentage points) was due primarily to more granular identification of non-capitalized research and development expenses for activity 3.18, despite a decline in such expenses for activity 3.4. Alignment Based on Valeo’s analyses, as set out below, the Taxonomy-aligned KPIs in 2024 are as follows: Turnover CapEx OpEx 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 PROPORTION ALIGNED WITH THE TAXONOMY 17.5% 19.0% 14.1% 13.2% 20.6% 19.4% Climate change mitigation 3.4 Manufacture of batteries 2.7% 4.6% 5.9% 5.1% 4.2% 5.1% 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components 4.6% 6.9% 6.8% 6.4% 14.1% 12.0% 3.6 Manufacture of other low carbon technologies 8.1% 7.5% 1.4% 1.8% 2.4% 2.3% 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles —% —% —% —% —% —% Transition to a circular economy 5.1 Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing 0.3% —% —% 5.2 Sale of spare parts 1.8% —% —% PROPORTION NOT ALIGNED WITH THE TAXONOMY 82.5% 81.0% 85.9% 86.8% 79.4% 80.6% In 2024, the alignment of economic activities contributing to the transition to a circular economy served to offset the decline in sales from activities aligned with the climate change mitigation objective. As a result, the total share of sales (turnover) from Taxonomy-aligned activities decreased by 1.5 percentage points between 2023 and 2024. The Taxonomy-aligned CapEx and OpEx indicators followed the same slight upward trend as the Taxonomy-eligible activities contributing to climate change mitigation. 4.2.2.3 Analysis of Valeo’s economic activities eligible for the European Taxonomy For 2024, Valeo is reporting its economic activities eligible for the European Taxonomy: • for the climate change mitigation objective, according to the conditions described within activities 3.4 “Manufacture of batteries”, 3.18 “Manufacture of automotive and mobility components”, and 3.6 “Manufacture of other low carbon technologies”, as well as 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles”; • for the transition to a circular economy, according to the conditions described within activities 5.1 “Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing”, and 5.2 “Sale of spare parts”. Valeo does not report sales (turnover), CapEx, or OpEx for activity 1.2 “Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment” within the transition to a circular economy objective, considering it not applicable to its products for the following reasons: • It references Directives 2011/65 and 2012/19, which exclude automotive industry equipment. Automotive equipment falls under the End-of-Life Vehicles Directive (2000/53), which is not referenced in either the activity description or the draft FAQ published by the European Commission on November 29, 2024; • The technical substantial contribution criteria are based on regulatory frameworks and technical standards that are mostly not applicable to the automotive industry. As currently drafted, the technical criteria cannot be applied or transposed to automotive electronic equipment. In the event of further clarification, the Group may revise this position. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 207"
"The table below summarizes the activities considered by Valeo to be eligible in 2024: Eligible activity under the Climate Delegated Act Corresponding Valeo Group activity Relevant KPIs Turnover CapEx OpEx Climate change mitigation 3.4 Manufacture of batteries Manufacture of batteries and parts necessary for the operation of batteries ✘ ✘ ✘ 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components Manufacture of components essential for delivering and improving the environmental performance of electric vehicles ✘ ✘ ✘ 3.6 Manufacture of other low carbon technologies Technologies that provide substantial CO2 emissions reductions at the vehicle level and demonstrate a superior level of carbon performance compared to the best known market benchmark ✘ ✘ ✘ 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles* Leasing of company vehicles ✘ * This activity is allocated to the climate change mitigation objective, which Valeo considers to be the most relevant. Eligible activity under the Environment Delegated Act Corresponding Valeo Group activity Relevant KPIs Turnover CapEx OpEx Transition to a circular economy 5.1 Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing Remanufacturing of parts, i.e., their reconditioning via an industrial manufacturing process (alternators, starters and compressors) ✘ ✘ ✘ 5.2 Sale of spare parts Lighting business aftermarket ✘ ✘ ✘ Application to Valeo’s activities Valeo has performed a detailed analysis of all activities within the Group’s consolidated entities (see Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 14 “List of consolidated companies”, page 423). Companies over which the Group exercises joint control or significant influence are therefore excluded from the scope of analysis and from the calculation of the ratios defined by the Delegated Act supplementing Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation published on July 6, 2021. This analysis is based on the Regulation as available at December 31, 2024. Climate change mitigation objective Activity 3.4 “Manufacture of batteries” Products developed and sold by Valeo that are eligible for the Taxonomy under activity 3.4 include sales of all components intended for the operation of the battery in an electric or hybrid vehicle (battery thermal management module, packaging and casing, voltage converters, charging connector). Activity 3.18 “Manufacture of automotive and mobility components” Valeo products eligible for this category are those essential to the environmental performance of electric vehicles (i.e., with zero direct CO2 emissions): • either essential to the vehicle’s electrification (engine-related components); • or essential to improving its environmental performance (thanks to substantial weight reduction, improved aerodynamics or optimized energy efficiency). Valeo products eligible under both activity 3.4 and activity 3.18 are assigned to activity 3.4, in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation. Activity 3.6. “Manufacture of other low carbon technologies” Since 2022, given the multi-sectoral nature of the alignment criteria for activity 3.6, Valeo has elected to include this activity in its disclosures with a view to structuring a methodological proposal aimed at applying the Taxonomy in the context of its automotive products and methodologies. Valeo includes in this activity technologies for which it is possible to demonstrate a substantial contribution to CO2 emissions savings at vehicle level, including work to reduce upstream and downstream Scope 3 emissions. The factors allowing a carbon impact reduction of that nature (taking into account all stages of a product’s life cycle) are mainly, but not exclusively, a reduction in mass, a reduction in the carbon footprint of the materials used, and an improvement in the energy performance of the component in the use. This work is an integral part of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan (see section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, section 4.2.3.6 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies”, section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”, pages 223, 228, 229 and 234). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 208 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"To assess the eligibility of products for this activity, Valeo referred to multiple criteria including substantial contribution to vehicle weight reduction or to energy performance, reduction in CO2 emissions assessed on a full life cycle basis or the existence of substantial gains associated with products recognized as eco-innovations by the European Commission. Taxonomy-eligible products developed and sold by Valeo under activity 3.6 include propulsion and lighting technologies. Valeo products eligible under both activity 3.18 and activity 3.6 are assigned to activity 3.18, in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation. Activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles” In this activity, Valeo reports the amount of new leases for company vehicles made available to certain Group employees. Transition to a circular economy objective Activity 5.1 “Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing” Valeo has a longstanding business in remanufacturing (or renovating) automobile parts with a view to giving them a new life. These parts, collected from a network of garages and repair shops, undergo a comprehensive industrial remanufacturing process that gives them the same quality and performance as new parts. The range of remanufactured parts mainly includes alternators, starters and compressors, and is currently being expanded to include new products (cameras, bicycle batteries, inverters, etc.). Activity 5.2 “Sale of spare parts” Valeo sells spare parts to automakers and independent aftermarket operators. The eligibility criteria for this Taxonomy activity specify the associated NACE codes. Based on a prescriptive reading of these NACE codes, the aftermarket of Valeo’s lighting activity is the only one to fall under the Taxonomy sale of spare parts activity. 4.2.2.4 Methodology note Analysis of European Taxonomy financial KPIs Based on the Group’s management and consolidation data, Valeo can extract data relating to sales (turnover), investments (CapEx), as well as non-capitalized Research and Development expenditure, maintenance costs and short-term leases (OpEx), in accordance with the definitions in Article 8 of the Delegated Act, Annex I, Section 1.1. Intra-Group operations are not taken into account in the Taxonomy KPIs. Valeo’s allocation of turnover (sales), CapEx and OpEx to the various Taxonomy-eligible activities avoids double counting. Turnover Assumptions used to calculate eligibility The KPI’s numerator comprises the sales generated by the Group’s eligible activities. Reported sales figures are taken from Valeo’s accounting and consolidation systems. The Group also uses allocation keys derived from the sales database to estimate the allocation of sales of a product family based on the engine of the vehicles equipped. The denominator corresponds to the consolidated sales of the Valeo Group for the year ended December 31, 2024 (see Note 5.1 “Sales” to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document, page 371). Assumptions used to calculate alignment For the three activities of the climate change mitigation objective for which eligible turnover is reported, Valeo reports the same amounts for alignment, as the substantial contribution criteria, the generic criteria of the “do no significant harm” principle and compliance with the minimum safeguards are met (see below). With regard to the transition to a circular economy objective, for which alignment disclosure is required for the first time in respect of 2024, Valeo has performed an analysis of the substantial contribution criteria, the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle, and the minimum safeguards for the two activities for which eligible turnover is declared. This analysis showed that Valeo’s eligible activities are aligned with the transition to a circular economy objective. Capital expenditure (CapEx) Assumptions used to calculate eligibility The KPI's numerator comprises the Group’s capital expenditure, corresponding to purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including right-of-use assets (IFRS 16), recorded in 2024, before depreciation and amortization, that can be allocated to a Taxonomy activity. First, the Group analyzed capital expenditure related directly to eligible turnover-generating activities as detailed above. Second, the analysis of the new long-term leased assets recognized under IFRS 16 made it possible to identify the new right-of-use assets associated with company vehicles, to be reported in activity 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. The denominator of the Group’s capital expenditure KPI corresponds to the Group’s total capital expenditure relating to purchases of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, including right-of-use assets (IFRS 16), recorded in 2024, before depreciation and amortization (see Notes 7.2 “Other intangible assets” and 7.3 “Property, plant and equipment” to the consolidated financial statements in section 5.4.6 of this document, pages 389 to 393). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 209"
"Assumptions used to calculate alignment As with turnover, all CapEx eligible for Taxonomy activities 3.4, 3.18, 3.6, 5.1 and 5.2 has been reported as aligned. Regarding activity 6.5, the information on the motorization of company vehicles required to report alignment is not available in the Group’s financial systems. Given the immateriality of this activity for Valeo and in accordance with FAQ 13 published by the European Commission in October 2023 (C/2023/305), Valeo reports zero alignment for this activity in 2024. Operating expenditure (OpEx) Assumptions used to calculate eligibility Operating expenditure (OpEx) consists of: • non-capitalized Research and Development expenditure, i.e., gross R&D expenditure less capitalized development expenditure (see Note 7.2 “Other intangible assets” to the consolidated financial statements in section 5.4.6 of this document, page 389); • maintenance, upkeep and repair expenses; • short-term leases. The sum of these expenses represents the denominator of the OpEx KPI. The KPI’s numerator comprises operating expenses related to the Taxonomy activities set out above, whose turnover is eligible. Assumptions used to calculate alignment As with turnover, all OpEx eligible for taxonomy activities 3.4, 3.18, 3.6, 5.1 and 5.2 has been reported as aligned. Analysis of the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle and minimum safeguards The analysis of the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle and minimum safeguards covers Valeo’s entire product portfolio. Under the Regulation, these criteria only apply to Valeo’s Taxonomy-eligible activities. In 2024, to justify the alignment of Valeo’s eligible activities with the transition to a circular economy objective, an analysis was conducted with respect to the generic criterion of the “do no significant harm” principle as regards climate change mitigation, as well as an additional analysis with respect to spare parts for the generic criterion of the “do no significant harm” principle as regards pollution prevention and control. The analysis of the other criteria and the minimum safeguards is common to Valeo’s Taxonomy-eligible activities under the climate change mitigation and transition to a circular economy objectives. Details are provided below. Generic criteria relating to the ""do no significant harm"" principle Climate change mitigation Most of Valeo’s activities do not involve on-site production of heat or cold. Where this is the case (mainly furnaces), the use of gas results in GHG emissions below the limit of 270 gCO2eq./ kWh (global emission factor: 239 gCO2eq./kWh). In addition, the Group’s CAP 50 strategy (see section 4.2.3 “Climate strategy”, page 217) covers transportation-related emissions, including for remanufacturing activities. Climate change adaptation To strengthen its understanding of the impacts of climate change on the Group’s physical assets (physical risks), Valeo has carried out an analysis of its exposure to the impacts of climate change across its entire scope of consolidation, including the risks linked to changes in temperature and in the management of water, wind and soil resources in the SSP2-4.5 and SSP5-8.5 Representative Concentration Pathway scenarios for 2030 and 2050. This analysis, carried out using climate modeling tools developed by leading players in the field, served to characterize and assess the nature and likely intensity of the risk. It was carried out at the level of a plant or office, which at this stage is the most granular and relevant level available for a manufacturing company. The analysis is part of broader efforts to gain a better understanding of Valeo’s exposure to the risks associated with the consequences of climate change, which will regularly be supplemented by dedicated site audits and programs to strengthen on-site prevention tools and systems. Transition to a circular economy Valeo adopted a circular economy strategy in 2021. It is based on a 4R approach aimed at remanufacturing parts, i.e., reconditioning them via an industrial manufacturing process, repairing and recycling them, and ensuring that they remain robust over time. This approach draws on careful resource consumption, eco-design policies, and the management of waste and hazardous materials (see section 4.2.1 ""Environmental policies and commitments"", page 205). Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources Valeo has a longstanding policy on water management, which includes reducing water withdrawals and consumption, minimizing industrial effluents and gradually phasing out the use of water from natural sources where possible. Valeo has installed various equipment to limit the risk of pollution (non-return valves, retention zones, etc.) and to better understand the impact of its water consumption based on the geographic location of its sites. Some of these analyses are disclosed transparently via CDP Water and are available on the dedicated website. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 210 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"The identified decarbonization levers are described below. The reservoirs of actions have already been identified, notably the supply of low-carbon energy, progress which is monitored on a quarterly basis. Valeo is committed to using more than 80% low-carbon electricity by 2030. According to the Group's market analysis, the earmarked budget would put Valeo on track to go beyond this target, up to around 3 TWh if necessary, thus contributing to an emission reduction of around 2 MtCO2e. ISO 50001 certification Between 2021 and 2024, Valeo continued to invest in transforming its sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions (Scopes 1 & 2), with a view to obtaining ISO 50001 certification for 105 sites. In conjunction with these energy performance projects, the proportion of low-carbon energy in the Group’s overall energy consumption will increase from 5.5% in 2019 to 80% by 2030, with a threshold of 50% from 2025. The actions taken by the sites to achieve this objective are detailed in section 4.2.3.6 “Climate-related actions and resources”, page 228. Upstream Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions The 2030 upstream Scope 3 emission reduction target is 1,400 ktCO2eq. compared with the 2019 baseline. Depending on the change in Group sales between now and 2030 and the distribution of Product Lines in the Valeo sales portfolio, this amount could more than double. The decarbonization levers identified for upstream Scope 3 are described below. The reservoirs of validated actions to be implemented cover 90% of upstream Scope 3 GHG emission reductions, and are monitored during quarterly CAP 50 committees. Thanks to the use of low-carbon materials (recycled, biosourced, etc.) and improvements in the energy efficiency of Valeo's suppliers, reductions of up to 3 MtCO2eq. have been identified. Valeo will also benefit from the decarbonization of its value chain, particularly the supply of electronic components, which could contribute to the reduction of over a million additional metric tons of CO2. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 224 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Upstream Scope 3 actions Valeo has also set the same greenhouse gas emissions objectives for its suppliers. To help reduce upstream Scope 3 emissions, Valeo implemented an extensive plan in 2022 to measure the emissions of its product platforms through life cycle assessments. This work has enabled the use of levers to reduce emissions, such as low-emission materials, weight reduction and support for suppliers to improve their carbon performance. In 2023, 80% of the Group’s product platforms were subject to a product carbon footprint based on life cycle assessments (using the Global Warming Potential indicator) and 43% defined quantified action plans for reduction solutions. In 2024, 100% of the Group’s product platforms were subject to a product carbon footprint and 75% defined quantified action plans for reduction solutions. Valeo continued to conduct life cycle assessments for all its platforms. It is now mandatory in all eligible development projects for the product carbon footprint to be managed with a view to achieving a target aligned with the Group’s commitment. Implementation of the life cycle assessment process continues with the training of R&D teams in new processes and tools, and the creation of new dedicated positions. Life cycle assessments by product line sold by Valeo will be completed in 2025. Downstream Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions The 2030 downstream Scope 3 emission reduction target is 5,850 ktCO2eq. compared with the 2019 baseline. Depending on the change in the Group sales between now and 2030, and the distribution among the Product Lines, this amount could more than double. The identified decarbonization levers are described below. The reservoirs already identified cover 85% of downstream Scope 3 GHG reductions and are monitored on a quarterly basis. Firstly, the use of Valeo products in a growing number of ever more efficient electric vehicles should reduce the Group's environmental impact by an amount of more than 10 million metric tons of CO2eq. In addition, the reservoirs of actions to be implemented are related to design changes, new concepts, and changes in the Valeo product portfolio, which could contribute to an additional reduction of up to 2 million metric tons of CO2eq. Downstream Scope 3 actions To reduce greenhouse gas emissions related to the end use of products, Valeo will continue to expand its range of technologies contributing to low-carbon mobility, in particular solutions for vehicle electrification, a field in which the Group is now a world leader. The Group is also continuing its efforts to use lighter materials and alternative technologies to reduce product weight and energy consumption. Valeo validated 34 biosourced and recycled resins, plus 9 recycled aluminum materials, which will help reduce the carbon footprint of its materials and products. Investments and financing to support the implementation of the transition plan Investments Valeo has committed to invest 400 million euros to decarbonize its sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. A process has been defined to identify investments related to activities associated with the CAP 50 plan. Investment thresholds per metric ton reduction of CO2eq are validated by the Chief Executive Officer and monitored quarterly. The CAP 50 Director provides a summary report of investments to all Divisions, together with the associated expected CO2eq. reductions. Financing Valeo issued an inaugural 600 million euro green bond in October 2023, followed by a second 850 million euro issue in April 2024. These green bonds were issued under the Green and Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework published in September 2023, available on Valeo’s website, in the Debt and rating section. The funds raised are used to finance projects and investments related to the portfolio of technologies contributing to vehicle electrification and meeting the technical criteria of the European Green Taxonomy. In February 2021, the European Investment Bank approved 600 million euros in funding for Valeo research and development projects focused specifically on technologies that reduce CO2 emissions and improve active vehicle safety. Projects related to the decarbonization of mobility, half of which will be financed from this amount, amount to 257 million euros. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 225"
"The Group has also issued two sustainability-linked bonds indexed to a December 2025 carbon footprint target, for 700 million euros in July 2021 and 750 million euros in November 2022. These two issues underline Valeo’s commitment to carbon neutrality. The characteristics of these financing arrangements are presented in Chapter 5, section 5.4.6 “Notes to the consolidated financial statements”, Notes 1.3.6 “Financing”, page 364, and 9.1.2.1 “Long-term debt”, page 402. Assessment of potential locked-in GHG emissions Following a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the potential locked-in GHG emissions of its main assets and products, Valeo has concluded that the level of these emissions does not jeopardize the achievement of its reduction targets. Objective or plan for aligning Taxonomy-eligible economic activities The share of the Group’s 2024 turnover, capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenses (OpEx) related to Taxonomy- eligible economic activities under the six objectives of Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation, are detailed in section 4.2.2.5 “Taxonomy KPI tables”, page 212. Integration of the transition plan into financial strategy and planning Since 2020, the Sustainable Development and External Affairs Department has also been in charge of the governance structure established for the launch, implementation and monitoring of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050. This steering committee brings together all the aforementioned departments and networks under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer. Its aim is to set annual objectives for the various contributing networks and to oversee the implementation of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan. To monitor the plan, Valeo has set annualized greenhouse gas emission reduction objectives, backed by action plans for the internal networks contributing to them. The achievement of these objectives is presented to the General Management at quarterly reviews, and since 2021 has been one of the criteria for the variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and more than 1,700 senior executives. Approval of the transition plan by governance The Board of Directors is the Group’s highest governance body in charge of the CAP 50 Plan and has delegated responsibility for its implementation and monitoring to the Governance, Appointments & Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (see section 4.1.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives”, page 191). Results of the implementation of the transition plan The targets and results achieved in 2024 are presented in section 4.2.3.8 “Energy consumption”, page 233 and 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”, page 234. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 226 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"4.2.3.5 Policies related to climate mitigation and adaptation (DR E1-2) [ESRS E1 § 24] - [ESRS E1 § 25] Policy Key content and objectives Scope and exclusions Most senior level in the undertaking organization accountable for the implementation of the policy Third-party standards or initiatives followed in implementing the policy Consideration of key stakeholder interests in policy development Made available to stakeholders Climate change adaptation Identify sites exposed to physical climate risk and implement associated adaptation measures. Ensure the resilience of all Group sites, people and activities to climate change. Anticipate the effects of climate change on sites and communities. General policy applicable to all sites External Affairs, Regulatory Affairs and Sustainable Development Director IPCC recommendations based on two IPCC global warming scenarios – RCP2-4.5 and RCP5-8.5; Data for physical risk assessment from global climate models, CMIP5 models, Copernicus ERA5, UNEP-Preview, World Earthquake Model, WRI, DE JBA, IIASA Water Futures and Solutions and ISIMIP models Industrial and HSE site managers, Risk & Insurance team The policy is for internal use only. GHG emission reduction (Mitigation) Contributing to carbon neutrality. Provide CAP 50 training to employees. Assess suppliers’ sustainability maturity. Stages 0, 1, 2, 3. Invest 400 million euros between 2021 and 2030 to decarbonize the 100 sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. General policy applicable to all sites Valeo’s Board of Directors and Vice-President, Sustainable Development and External Affairs GHG Protocol standards (corporate accounting and reporting, Scope 2 guidelines, Scope 3 calculation guidelines, estimating and reporting avoided emissions, calculation guidelines, corporate value chain standard (Scope 3)) NGOs, regulators, customers, suppliers, investors, ESG agencies, public sector, Valeo top management and employees The policy is for internal use only. Energy efficiency policy Improve the energy efficiency of industrial processes. Increase the share of low-carbon energy purchased to power sites. Produce low-carbon energy directly on site, increasing the share of renewable energies. Reduce the use of gas, fuel oil and other fossil fuels in all forms, as well as electricity. General policy applicable to all sites Group HSE Director Based on SBTi, ISO 50001 and ISO 14001 standards Internal stakeholders: – Sites – HSE, operations and purchasing teams External stakeholders: – Energy suppliers – Communities and local authorities The policy is for internal use only. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 227"
"4.2.3.6 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies (DR E1-3) [ESRS E1 § 28] – [ESRS E1 § 29] The actions and resources related to climate change mitigation and adaptation are described below. LIST OF SIGNIFICANT ACTIONS TAKEN DURING THE YEAR AND THOSE PLANNED FOR THE FUTURE Challenge Key actions Scope Horizon Key targets Outcomes of actions Resources allocated Financial resources Adaptation to physical risks associated with climate change Vulnerability and adaptation audit at pilot sites identified as priorities and representative in terms of exposure Continuation of audits undertaken in 2024 Continuation of site- specific adaptation initiatives, complemented by specific action plans resulting from audits Development of a methodology based on site audits and its rollout across the company (finalization in 2025) Initial approach to quantifying physical risks Group 2030-2050 Ensure the resilience of all sites and business continuity in the face of climate phenomena The Group’s exposure is well identified following the exposure study (science-based). Some historically exposed sites have already started to adapt and partially improve their resilience (points identified during pilot audits). Ongoing vulnerability audits are helping to improve the understanding of vulnerabilities and define effective mitigation actions. Following these audits, a methodology adapted to the Group’s specific vulnerabilities will be implemented to enable non-audited sites to adopt the appropriate adaptation measures Site managers, industrial networks, HSE, HR Group Risk/ Insurance Expenditure on external adaptation audit services and monitoring of action plans Adaptation investment by sites Challenge Key actions Scope Horizon Key targets Outcomes of actions Resources allocated Financial resources Reduce GHG emissions Scope 1 & 2 actions related to energy consumption and improving processes and equipment Upstream Scope 3 actions: increase in the share of supplies from suppliers aligned with Valeo’s sustainability commitments, dedicated logistics actions, etc. Downstream Scope 3 actions: reduction in the weight of Valeo products, reduction in energy consumption Group 2025 – 2030 – 2050 Roll out CAP 50 training to employees Reduce carbon emissions in its own operations Assess the sustainability maturity of the supply chain (Stage 0,1,2,3) and pass on the Group’s CO2eq. emission reduction targets to suppliers Manage CO2eq. emission reductions from the product portfolio Ensure that 50% of electricity purchased in Asia (China and India), North America (Mexico) and Central Europe (Poland, Czech Republic and Hungary) is of guaranteed carbon-free origin by 2025 and 80% by 2030 Improve the energy efficiency of industrial processes by increasing the number of ISO 50001-certified sites (111 sites in 2024) Increase the share of low-carbon electricity purchased (61% in 2024) Increase the number of sites equipped with solar panels (13 farms and 7 light solar systems) Integration of CO2eq. targets and reduction action plans into the project development process for new programs Increase in the number of project development employees trained in product carbon footprinting and CAP 50 (1822) Increase in approved CAP 50 investments (54.7 million euros at the end of 2024) Site CAP 50 managers, Regional Operations and Divisions The Valeo Group has committed to invest 400 million euros by 2030 to decarbonize its 100 sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. Scope 3 actions self-financed or financed by customers SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 228 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Challenge Key actions Scope Horizon Key targets Outcomes of actions Resources allocated Financial resources Energy Improvement of site energy performance by following ISO 50001 international guidelines Performance of documented energy audits, establishment of technical building and centralized technical management, installation of dedicated meters for monitoring Group 2030-2050 40% of sites certified to ISO 50001 by 2025 and 70% by 2030 31% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions in 2025 vs. 2019 and 75% reduction in 2030 vs. 2019 105 ISO 50001- certified sites at end-2024 out of 164 sites in the reporting scope, i.e., 64%, vs. 80 sites in 2023 CAP 50 action plan resources CAP 50 action plan resources Adapting to physical risks As a first step, Valeo pays particular attention to analyzing the climate risk exposure of all new sites (soil analysis, climate data, etc.). This makes it possible for adaptation to be defined at the design stage. For example, for an industrial project and as part of an initial analysis of climate-related risks, it was decided to implement optimized solar exposure, a semi-buried structure, a south-facing blind façade, sensors to shut off air conditioning/heating, double glazing and a heat/sun screen, limited ceiling height in offices, rainwater recovery, enhanced thermal insulation (roof and walls), maximum natural lighting, LED artificial lighting, solar outdoor lighting, light-colored flooring, photovoltaic panels, and no fossil fuels. Some of the more mature sites have already implemented adaptation measures such as pumping systems to reduce excess water at the stormwater network point, roof drainage systems, employee peak heat management protocols, roof rainwater storage in underground tanks, internal wastewater treatment and reuse stations, solar panels, weed and brush control, cofferdams, temperature and humidity sensors, and emergency and business continuity plans. The aim is to cross-fertilize these best practices and to define additional priorities, measures and a complementary framework once the climate audits have been completed. [ESRS E1-3 § AR20] CAP 50 plan investments approved to date since monitoring began amount to 54.7 million euros. [ESRS E1-3 § AR21] Valeo has committed to invest 400 million euros to decarbonize its 100 sites with the highest CO2eq. emissions. A process has been defined to identify investments related to CAP 50 activities. Investment thresholds per metric ton reduction of CO2eq. are validated by General Management and monitored quarterly. The CAP 50 Director provides a summary report of investments to all Divisions, together with the associated expected CO2eq. reductions. Ongoing access to finance at an affordable cost of capital can be critical for the implementation of the undertaking's actions, which include its adjustments to supply/demand changes or its related acquisitions and significant research and development (R&D) investments. [ESRS E1-3 § AR22] The amounts of OpEx and CapEx required to implement the actions and their consistency with the key performance indicators and the Taxonomy-related CapEx plan are presented in section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy”, page 206. 4.2.3.7 A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030 (DR E1-4) [ESRS E1 § 33] Methods for setting GHG emission reduction targets For compliance with the Paris Agreement’s 1.5°C target, the SBTi requires that the company’s reduction targets and actions cover 100% of Scope 1 & 2 impacts and 67% of Scope 3 impacts. Valeo has therefore taken into account the “Purchased goods and services” and “Use of sold products” Scope 3 categories, which together accounted for more than 90% of the Group’s Scope 3 emissions in 2019. These categories are defined as follows: • Purchased goods and services: Emissions related to the production of goods and services purchased by Valeo(1); • Use of sold products: Emissions related to the use of products sold by Valeo. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 229 (1) The calculation made and disclosed by Valeo includes all materials and components purchased and required for the production of goods sold to automakers. It excludes services, other goods and energy used by Valeo’s suppliers."
"Valeo has chosen 2019 as its baseline year as it was the last full year of activity before the Covid-19 pandemic. The assessment resulted in total global emissions of 49.6 MtCO2eq., broken down by scope as shown in the figure below: [ESRS E1 § 34] GHG emission reduction targets (absolute value and intensity) and Scopes 1, 2, & 3 reduction objectives At the beginning of 2021, Valeo submitted its emission reduction objectives to the Science Based Targets (SBTi) initiative, thereby committing to aligning its pathway with the objectives of the Paris Agreement: • Scopes 1 & 2: 75% reduction in absolute emissions by 2030 compared with 2019, with an intermediate reduction target of 44% by 2025, in line with the 1.5°C objective. • Scope 3: 15% reduction in absolute emissions by 2030 compared with 2019, for both purchased goods and services and use of products sold, with an intermediate reduction target of 8% by 2025, in line with the 2°C goal. In line with SBTi requirements, targets must be revalidated every five years to ensure they are in line with the latest SBTi criteria. Valeo will therefore have to resubmit its targets by 2026, and also intends to commit to SBTi's long-term Net-Zero objective. Through this approach, Valeo is reaffirming its commitment to the Business Ambition for 1.5°C initiative. In the event of significant changes likely to affect its targets, notably beyond a threshold of 5%, Valeo will recalculate and have its commitments revalidated. The main challenge in achieving these absolute targets is Valeo’s expected growth between 2019, 2025 and 2030, coupled with the fact that automotive product design is frozen a year before the start of series production. Given the Group’s expected growth, a further reduction of 50% would therefore be required to achieve the 2030 SBTi-validated target. To reflect the effort required to achieve these targets, Valeo has also chosen to express them in terms of intensity (tCO2eq./€m) compared with the ambition of its Move Up plan. SBTi TARGETS IN ABSOLUTE TERMS AND CHANGE VS 2019 BASELINE YEAR (MtCO2) 49.60 45.35 41.42 Scopes 1 & 2 Upstream Scope 3 Downstream Scope 3 2019 2025 2030 CAP50 PATHWAY IN INTENSITY AS A PERCENTAGE OF SALES (MOVE UP PLAN TARGET) AND CHANGE VS 2019 BASELINE YEAR (ktCO2/€m) 2.55 1.81 2.06 Scopes 1 & 2 Upstream Scope 3 Downstream Scope 3 2019 2024 2025 Emissions calculation methodologies Valeo uses the following methodologies to calculate Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions: • Direct emissions (Scope 1): Emissions are calculated based on the quantity of fuel consumed and emission factors specific to each fuel type. For example, emissions from natural gas combustion are calculated by multiplying the volume of gas consumed by its emission factor. Emission (kgCO2eq.) = Energy (kWh) x Emission factor (kgCO2eq./kWh). • Indirect energy-related emissions (Scope 2): Emissions are calculated based on the amount of electricity consumed and the electricity emission factors. This can be done using location-based or market-based methods, depending on data availability. Emission (kgCO2eq.) = Energy (kWh) x Emission factor 1 (kgCO2eq./kWh). The reporting cycle runs from October 1 of the prior year to September 30 of the reporting year. Emission factors are taken from the ADEME(1) database, among other sources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 230 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341. 33.10 8.04 0.28 35.80 8.90 0.65 1.10 9.50 39.00 -9% -17% 2.00 0.49 0.06 1.42 0.37 0.02 0.03 0.40 1.63 -29% -19%"
"For the two Scope 3 categories selected, the calculation methodologies are as follows: 1. Purchased goods and services: The basic environmental impact assessment includes raw materials and electronics. Raw material: Emissions for each raw material are calculated based on gross mass and associated emission factors. Emission (kgCO2eq.) = Gross mass (kg) x Emission factor (kgCO2eq./kg). Emission factors are taken from databases such as the Worldsteel database or the Gabi life cycle tool (LCA for expert), among others. Electronics: The CO2 content of electronics is specific and cannot be accurately calculated using existing tools, as they do not provide sufficiently precise results for Valeo’s use of electronics. In addition, suppliers do not systematically disclose component-level information. Pending the availability of a sector-specific methodology or validated supplier data, Valeo has developed a specific methodology that integrates company supplier declarations, detailed material mass breakdowns by component and supplier data where available. 2. Upstream transportation and distribution: Emissions are calculated based on distances traveled, the weight of goods transported and the emission factors of the different modes of transportation. Valeo has decided to include this critical aspect in its reduction plan, going beyond the expectations of the SBTi. Emission (tCO2eq.) = Mass of goods (t) x Distance (km) x Emission factor (tCO2eq./t.km). Emission factors are taken from the GLEC (Global Logistics Emissions Council) Framework, among others. The reporting cycle runs from January 1 to December 31 of the reporting year. 3. Use of sold products: In the absence of a sector-specific methodology, Valeo, with the scientific support of EMISIA SA, has developed a methodology to assess the carbon impact of its products based on mass and energy consumption. Factors such as vehicle size, powertrain technology and region are taken into account to accurately estimate actual emissions. To reflect the effort required to achieve these targets, Valeo has also chosen to express them in terms of intensity (tCO2eq./€m) compared with the ambition of its Move Up plan. • Market-based direct emissions (Scope 1): Emissions intensity is calculated using total market-based CO2eq. emissions and total sales. Scope 1 market-based intensity (tCO2eq./million euros) = Market-based emissions (tCO2eq.)/total sales in millions of euros). • Location-based indirect energy-related emissions (Scope 2): Emissions intensity is calculated from total location-based CO2eq. emissions and total sales. Scope 2 location-based intensity (tCO2eq./million euros) = Location-based emissions (tCO2eq.)/total sales in millions of euros). • Upstream and downstream emissions (Scope 3): Emissions intensity is calculated from total Scope 3 CO2eq. emissions and total sales. Scope 3 intensity (tCO2eq./million euros) = Scope 3 emissions (tCO2eq)/total sales (millions of euros). The SBTi assessed Valeo’s formal submission in 2021 and, after careful review, approved the targets. The targets submitted for Scope 1 & 2 emissions were deemed to exceed the minimum ambition for the 1.5°C trajectory defined under the SBTi’s absolute contraction approach. The submission of Scope 3 emissions targets covered both direct and indirect emissions from use phases, and also exceeded the minimum requirements of the contraction method. A table summarizing the activities covered in GHG emission calculations for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 is provided in section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of Valeo’s Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”, page 234. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 231"
"EMISSIONS AVOIDED THANKS TO VALEO TECHNOLOGIES (MtCO2) 0.0 7.4 13.6 2019 2025 2030 Definition and scope of emissions avoided Avoided emissions are defined as the GHG emission reductions achieved when Valeo products replace more polluting internal combustion engines (ICE). Valeo’s initial focus was on vehicle electrification, but it plans to extend the scope to all product categories. Guiding principles Relevance and accuracy: The Group ensures that emission reductions are clearly linked to its products, based on reliable and well-documented data. Transparency: The Group provides clear and comprehensive information on all underlying assumptions and methodologies. Prudence: The Group uses conservative estimates to avoid overestimating environmental benefits. Methodological steps Definition of the baseline: The automotive industry’s transition from nearly 100% internal combustion engines (ICE) to battery electric vehicles (BEV) is modeled over a 15-year period (2019-2035 in the EU27). Each BEV is assumed to replace an ICE vehicle. As vehicles have an average life of more than 16 years, no replacements are assumed during this transition period. Impact assessment Avoided emissions are calculated by comparing the well-to- wheel emissions of an average Class C ICE vehicle with those of a Class C BEV. The comparison uses the IEA sustainable development scenario for the average CO2 content of electricity worldwide. Lifetime emissions are based on CO2 intensity at the time of the vehicle’s sale. [ESRS E1-3 § AR30] Climate change mitigation actions, decarbonization levers, key actions and their contributions to achieving GHG emission reduction targets, broken down by Scopes 1, 2 & 3, as well as the role of new technologies in achieving the targets are detailed in section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, page 223. The Group’s climate scenarios are described in section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks”, page 219. The table below shows the Group’s progress from 2019 to 2024 in terms of its emissions reduction trajectory. Outcomes in 2024 and CAP 50 Plan targets The table below sets out the targets set for each of the approaches adopted by Valeo and the outcomes obtained in 2024. CAP 50 Plan kt eq. CO2 2019 2023 2024 Cible 2025 Cible 2030 Emissions trajectory established as part of the SBTi commitment and outcomes Scope 1 196 186 165 110 47 Scope 2 (including renewable energy purchases) 966 464 291 542 231 Upstream Scope 3 (purchased goods and services, and transportation and distribution) 9,479 8,317 7,874 8,854 8,057 Downstream Scope 3 (use of sold products) 39,000 36,200 30,490 35,800 33,150 Total emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) 49,640 45,168 38,820 45,305 41,485 Annual greenhouse gas emissions target Scopes 1, 2 & 3 49,640 46,684 45,987 Achievement of the annual target Valeo referred to the SBTi in setting its CAP 50 Plan 2030 targets. Reduction targets were calculated using the absolute contraction approach. Valeo has aligned its trajectory with a 1.5°C by 2050 scenario by setting targets to reduce Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 75% and Scope 3 emissions by 15% by 2030 compared with 2019. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 232 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 +84%"
"The significant reduction in emissions observed in 2024 compared with 2023 is the result of several factors: • The ongoing efforts made since the launch of the CAP 50 Plan, which have resulted in gradual and continuous reductions in Scope 1 & 2 emissions and upstream Scope 3 emissions since 2021; • The exceptional reduction in downstream Scope 3 emissions resulting from the 2-million-unit reduction in sales of the most energy-intensive product line (variable displacement air conditioning compressors for thermal propulsion); • The faster-than-expected reduction in the carbon content of electronic components and systems, resulting in a higher- than-expected drop in GHG emissions in product families containing higher electronics content; • To a lesser extent than the previous elements: the progress made in the design of products sold (and therefore their lightweighting), combined with a reduction in the energy consumption of these products, results in a reduction in CO2 emissions during their use phase (downstream Scope 3). The 2030 and 2025 targets are unchanged, as they are the initial benchmarks of the CAP 50 Plan. 4.2.3.8 Energy consumption (DR E1-5) [ESRS E1 § 37] – [ESRS E1 § 38] TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWh) Energy consumption and mix Unit 2023 2024 1) Fuel consumption from coal and coal products MWh NS NS 2) Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products MWh 32,571 19,919 3) Fuel consumption from natural gas MWh 540,951 487,369 4) Fuel consumption from other fossil sources MWh 72,903 68,352 5) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources MWh 703,210 480,294 6) TOTAL FOSSIL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (CALCULATED AS THE SUM OF LINES 1 TO 5) MWh 1,349,635 1,055,934 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 48% 39% 7) Consumption from nuclear sources MWh 264,555 201,883 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 9% 8% 8) Fuel consumption from renewable sources, including biomass (also comprising industrial and municipal waste of biologic origin, biogas, renewable hydrogen, etc.) MWh NS NS 9) Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources MWh 1,193,076 1,417,095 10) Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy MWh 11,634 15,453 11) Total renewable energy consumption (calculated as the sum of lines 8 to 10) MWh 1,204,710 1,432,548 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption % 43% 53% TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (CALCULATED AS THE SUM OF LINES 6, 7 AND 11) MWh 2,818,900 2,690,365 The significant increase in renewable energy consumption is the result of obtaining renewable energy certificates and guarantees of origin in several countries. In addition, Valeo continued its actions to improve energy efficiency, such as the installation of automatic dimmers at the Skawina site (Poland), the replacement of compressors at the Chonburi site (Thailand) and the reduction of circulating water temperatures at the Wuhan site (China). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 233"
"[ESRS E1 § 39] - [ESRS E1 § 40] - [ESRS E1 § 41] ENERGY PRODUCTION (MWh) Non-renewable energy production and renewable energy production Unit 2023 2024 Non-renewable energy production MWh 0 0 Renewable energy production MWh 11,634 15,453 Energy intensity of activities in sectors with high climate impact (total energy consumption per net sales) MWh/€m 128 125 Total energy consumption from activities in sectors with high climate impact MWh 2,818,900 2,690,365 Valeo increased the number of solar panels installed on its sites in 2024, which made it possible to reduce the energy consumption of the POWER Division’s Turkish sites. [ESRS E1 § 42] Valeo’s operational activities are all considered to have a high climate impact. [ESRS E1 § 43] NET INCOME FROM ACTIVITIES IN HIGH CLIMATE IMPACT SECTORS Unit 2023 2024 Net income from activities in high climate impact sectors used to calculate energy intensity €m 22,044 21,492 Net income (other) €m 0 0 Total net income (financial statements) €m 22,044 21,492 4.2.3.9 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050 (DR E1-6) [ESRS E1 § 47] The SBTi defines materiality as a change of 5% or more in the base year GHG emissions recalculation. The Group has assessed the implications of this recalculation on its targets and has not identified a need to update the target as the change represents an impact of less than 5%. The methodology, assumptions and emission factors used to calculate Valeo’s GHG emissions are detailed in section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, page 229. [ESRS E1 § 50] Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions are presented on a consolidated basis at Group level. Valeo’s total GHG emissions differ from the total CAP 50 emissions presented in section 4.2.3.7, “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, page 229, insofar as it only takes into account certain categories of the GHG Protocol. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 234 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"[ESRS E1 § 44] - [ESRS E1 § 46] - [ESRS E1 § 48] - [ESRS E1 § 49] - [ESRS E1 § 51] - [ESRS E1 § 52] TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2eq.) Retrospective CAP 50 Plan targets 2019 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 2025 2030 SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 195,626 186,121 164,569 -12 % Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 880,687 832,768 816,042 -2 % Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 965,680 464,254 291,018 -37 % TOTAL LOCATION-BASED SCOPE 1 & 2 GHG EMISSIONS 1,076,313 1,018,889 980,610 -4 % TOTAL MARKET-BASED SCOPE 1 & 2 GHG EMISSIONS 1,161,306 650,375 455,587 -30 % 651,000 278,000 SIGNIFICANT SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS TOTAL GROSS INDIRECT (SCOPE 3) GHG EMISSIONS 52,197,768 46,698,657 40,672,513 -13 % 44,654,000 41,207,150 1) Purchased goods and services 9,179,000 7,972,051 7,573,369 -5 % 8,574,000 7,802,150 [Optional sub-category: Cloud computing and data center services] 0 0 0 2) Capital goods 2,600,853 758,820 167,420 -78 % 3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 146,166 146,970 148,709 1 % 4) Upstream transportation and distribution 151,667 317,095 300,889 -5 % 140,000 127,500 5) Waste generated in operations 32,143 28,992 27,637 -5 % 6) Business travel 27,429 43,426 40,807 -6 % 7) Employee commuting 208,843 187,757 176,688 -6 % 8) Upstream leased assets 0 0 0 9) Downstream transportation 151,667 387,587 387,903 — % 140,000 127,500 10) Processing of sold products 380,000 380,000 380,000 — % 11) Use of sold products 39,000,000 36,155,959 30,489,590 -16 % 35,800,000 33,150,000 12) End-of-life treatment of sold products 320,000 320,000 320,000 — % 13) Downstream leased assets 0 0 14) Franchises 0 0 15) Investments 0 0 659,500 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (LOCATION-BASED) 53,274,081 47,717,546 41,653,123 -13 % TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (MARKET-BASED) 53,359,074 47,349,032 41,128,099 -13 % 45,305,000 41,485,150 Percentage of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data 0% 0% The reduction in total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2024 is largely attributable to a substantial drop in emissions related to the use of the products sold (category 11), a consequence of the 2-million-unit reduction in sales of the most energy-intensive product line (variable displacement air conditioning compressors for thermal propulsion). [ESRS E1 § 53] - [ESRS E1 § 55] TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (MARKET-BASED) BY NET SALES (tCO2eq./monetary unit) GHG emissions intensity per net revenue(1) 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) by net sales 2,165 1,938 -10 % Total GHG emissions (market-based) by net sales 2,148 1,914 -11 % (1) Total emissions including the 15 GHG Protocol categories. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 235"
"Unit 2023 2024 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity €m 22,044 21,492 Net revenue (other) €m 0 0 TOTAL NET REVENUE (FINANCIAL STATEMENTS) €m 22,044 21,492 4.2.3.10 Internal carbon pricing (DR E1-8) The Group does not apply internal carbon pricing. 4.2.3.11 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related risks and opportunities (DR E1-9) The CSRD allows companies to omit the anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related risks and opportunities prescribed by ESRS E1-9 in the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on the anticipated financial effects from climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities. Assessing the expected financial impact for assets considered to be exposed to material physical risks is a complex process. The completion of the adaptation audits in 2025 should contribute to a relevant, science-based assessment of these financial effects on the audited sites. 4.2.4 Pollution (ESRS E2) 4.2.4.1 Identification and assessment of material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E2 - POLLUTION Pollution of air Risk associated with emissions into air that may have a limited negative impact on the environment (VOCs(1), refrigerants, industrial process pollutants such as diffuse pollution, heavy metals, etc.). The financial impact on the Group of restoring the environment and facilities is estimated to be limited. Pollution of water Risk associated with emissions to water that may result in the discharge of polluting effluents, a lack of operational control over effluents, or accidental spills. The financial impact on the Group of restoring the environment and facilities is estimated to be limited. Pollution of soil Risk associated with emissions into soil that may result in hazardous waste or the discharge of polluting effluents, or a lack of effective design and control of industrial systems. The financial impact on the Group of restoring the environment and facilities is estimated to be limited. Substances of concern Risk of failing to reduce and eliminate substances of concern in products, with a potential negative impact on people and the environment. Estimates of potential fines and remediation costs are limited to date. Substances of very high concern Risk of failing to reduce and eliminate substances of very high concern in products, with a potential negative impact on people and the environment. Estimates of potential fines and remediation costs are limited to date. (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 236 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"The results were as follows: • update of the main risks of corruption and influence peddling to which the Group may be exposed; • development and implementation of the corresponding anti-corruption action plan. Valeo intends to continue its anti-corruption efforts, particularly in terms of employee training. [ESRS G1 § 18] Valeo’s internal whistleblowing system covers, among other things, reports of suspected, actual or proven acts that may constitute a felony or misdemeanor resulting directly or indirectly from Valeo’s activities. Thus, as described in section 4.4.3 “Corporate culture and business conduct”, page 291, allegations and/or incidents of corruption and influence peddling are systematically analyzed and investigated as soon as the Group is directly or indirectly involved. The operation of Valeo’s internal whistleblowing system, the processing of alerts and the process of communicating the results to the management bodies are described in section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns”, page 269. Any inappropriate behavior or breaches of the Code of Business Ethics brought to light by an investigation into allegations and/ or incidents of corruption and influence peddling give rise to an action plan including disciplinary sanctions, up to and including dismissal, where appropriate. Valeo also has a corruption risk management program for certain third parties, consisting of: • a policy for assessing and selecting third parties and agents; • the Business Partners Code of Conduct and its complementary anti-corruption manual; • specific mandatory training for certain third parties; • introductory training on the Code of Business Ethics and anti-corruption. Anti-corruption training [ESRS G1 § 21] To ensure an understanding of internal and external anti-corruption policies, tools and behaviors, Valeo has developed compulsory e-learning modules for new hires (people hired during the year), in particular Valeo’s Managers and Professionals. In 2024, 95% of the year’s new hires, including Managers and Professionals across all networks, completed and validated the Induction to Compliance Program, which includes a module dedicated to the anti-corruption program. In 2023, 99.75% of the target population attended annual anti-corruption training. The next annual campaign will be launched in 2025, drawing on the results of the corruption and influence peddling risk mapping updated during the reporting period. 4.4.6 Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery (DR G1-4) [ESRS G1 § 24] Valeo has not been convicted of any violation of anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. 4.4.7 Payment practices (DR G1-6) [ESRS G1 § 33] Valeo is not in a position to provide 2024 data on the average time taken to pay an invoice from the date on which the contractual or legal payment period begins, in number of days. The Group does not currently have the appropriate tools to produce data relating to past due payments in all of its operating regions. However, Valeo’s payment policy complies with the regulations in force in the various countries in which the Group operates. Notably, in France, Valeo signed the Charter of Intercompany Relations, now known as the Responsible Supplier Relations Charter, on January 10, 2012. The aim is to build balanced long-term relationships between large corporations and their suppliers, with the parties acknowledging and respecting each other’s rights and obligations. The charter requires that each signatory appoint a supplier representative to act as an internal mediator to facilitate the settlement of any disputes with suppliers and to help develop healthy long-term relationships. The internal mediator was appointed on March 13, 2012 and is still in place. In addition, the Supply Chain Finance program, implemented by the Finance network in collaboration with the Purchasing network, is based on the principle of reverse factoring, enabling suppliers to obtain favorable financing conditions. As of December 31, 2024, the Group was involved in three legal proceedings for late payment, including two in the Americas and one in Asia. These disputes represent a total amount of approximately 30,000 euros and the Group is committed to resolving them as quickly as possible. In addition, two late payment lawsuits were settled in Europe for a total amount of 700 euros in 2024. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Governance information – Business conduct (ESRS G1) UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 297"
"4.5 Appendices Appendix 1 – Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56) ESRS 2 BP-1 General basis for preparation of the sustainability statements 4.1.1.1 4.1.1.2 187 ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 4.1.1.3 190 ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-1 21 (d) The Board's gender diversity x x 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-2 Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking's administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-2 21 (e) Percentage of independent board members x 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.1.2.3 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 30 Statement on due diligence x 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting 4.1.2.5 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain 4.1.3.1 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) i Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities x x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) ii Involvement in activities related to chemical production x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iii Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iv Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.1.3.2 195 ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.1.3.3 200 ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.4.1 201 ESRS 2 IRO-2 Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 4.1.4.2 203 ESRS 2 GOV-3 E1 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.2.3.1 217 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 298 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 14 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 x 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 16 (g) Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned benchmarks x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-3 E1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.3.2 218 ESRS 2 IRO-1 E1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.3 219 ESRS E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.5 227 ESRS E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 4.2.3.6 228 ESRS E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.7 229 ESRS E1-4 34 GHG emission reduction targets x x x 4.2.3.7 230 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 38 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 37 Energy consumption and mix x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 40-43 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors x 4.2.3.8 234 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 234 ESRS E1-6 44 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions x x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-6 53-55 Gross GHG emissions intensity x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-7 GHG absorption and mitigation projects financed through carbon credits Not applicable ESRS E1-7 56 GHG removals and carbon credits x Not applicable ESRS E1-8 Internal carbon pricing 4.2.3.10 236 ESRS E1-9 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 66 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks x 4.2.3.11 236 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 299"
"ESRS E1-9 66 (a); 66 (c) Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk Location of significant assets at material physical risk x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 67 (c) Breakdown of the carrying value of the undertaking's real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 69 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate-related opportunities x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS IRO-1 E2 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.1 236 ESRS E2-1 Policies related to pollution 4.2.4.2 237 ESRS E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 239 ESRS E2-3 Targets related to pollution 4.2.4.4 241 ESRS E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-4 28 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil x 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 4.2.4.6 243 ESRS E2-6 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.7 244 ESRS IRO-1 E3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 244 ESRS E3-1 Policies related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 9 Water and marine resources x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 13 Dedicated policy x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 14 Sustainable oceans and seas x Not applicable ESRS E3-2 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 246 ESRS E3-3 Targets related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.4 247 ESRS E3-4 Number of accidents with lost time 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 28 (c) Total percentage of water recycled and reused x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 29 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-5 Anticipated financial effects from water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.6 248 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 300 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 4.2.6.1 248 ESRS 2-SBM-3 E4 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (a) i Activities negatively affecting biodiversity-sensitive areas x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (b) Breakdown of sites according to impacts and dependencies x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (c) Biodiversity-sensitive areas affected x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS IRO-1 E4 Description of the processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.3 249 ESRS E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-2 24 (b) Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (c) Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (d) Policy to prevent deforestation x 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 250 ESRS E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.6 251 ESRS E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 4.2.6.7 251 ESRS E4-6 Anticipated financial effects from biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.8 251 ESRS IRO-1 E5 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.1 252 ESRS E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.1 4.2.7.3.1 4.2.7.4.1 252 ESRS E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 4.2.7.3.2 4.2.7.4.2 253 ESRS E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.3 4.2.7.3.3 4.2.7.4.3 254 ESRS E5-4 Resource inflows 4.2.7.3.4 256 ESRS E5-5 Resource outflows 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 37 (d) Non-recycled waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 39 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 301"
"d) Taking action to address negative impacts on people and the environment. This is addressed under: i) ESRS 2 MDR-A; and ii) ESRS 2 MDR-A topical ESRS DR E1-3 ESRS E1 § 28-29 GHG emission reduction 4.2.3.6 Page 228 DR E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 Page 239 DR E3-2 Actions and resources related to water 4.2.5.3 Page 246 DR E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 Page 250 DR S1-4 Social actions: Working conditions 4.3.1.6 Page 276 DR S1-4 Social actions: Health and Safety 4.3.1.6 Page 272 DR S1-4 Social actions: Diversity, equity and inclusion 4.3.1.6 Page 273 DR S1-4 Social actions: Other work-related rights 4.3.1.6 Page 275 DR S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers/Duty-of-care plan 4.3.2.6 Page 284 DR S4-4 ESRS S4 § 31 Actions to prevent, mitigate or remediate material negative impacts on consumers and/or end-users 4.3.3.4.2 Page 288 DR G1-3 ESRS G1 § 16 Valeo’s anti-corruption program 4.4.5 Page 296 Assessment of suppliers’ sustainability practices 4.4.4 Page 294 e) Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts. This is addressed under: i) ESRS 2 MDR-M; ii) ESRS 2 MDR-T; and iii) Thematic ESRS: metrics and targets. DR E1-6 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050 4.2.3.9 Page 234 DR E2-3 Targets related to pollution DR E2-4 Air, water and soil pollution 4.2.4.4 4.2.4.5 Page 241 DR E3-3 Targets related to water DR E3-4 Water consumption 4.2.5.4 4.2.5.5 Page 247 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Working conditions 4.3.1.7 Page 276 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Health and safety DR S1-14 Health and safety metrics 4.3.1.7 4.3.1.16 Page 276 Page 281 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Equal treatment and opportunities for all 4.3.1.7 Page 277 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Other work-related rights 4.3.1.7 Page 277 ESRS S1 metrics 4.3.1.10 to 4.3.1.18 Pages 279 to 281 DR S2-5 Targets related to value chain workers 4.3.2.7 Page 286 Chapter Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 307"
"Appendix 3 – Table of information incorporated by reference DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.7 ""Sustainability auditor’s report"" Page 342 DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.1.2.4 “Statement on due diligence” Page 194 DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy” Page 206 ESRS 2 § 3 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 3 “Scope of consolidation” to the consolidated financial statements Page 365 ESRS 2 § 3 - 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.1.1.2.1 “Reporting of environmental data” paragraph “Changes in scope” Page 189 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.2 “Environmental information” Page 205 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.3 “Social information” Page 260 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.4 “Governance information – Business conduct” Page 290 ESRS 2 § 10 4.1.1.3.2 Page 190 Section 4.1.1.3.3 “Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty” Page 190 ESRS 2 § 11 4.1.1.3.3 Page 190 Section 4.1.1.2.1 “Reporting of environmental data” Page 189 ESRS 2 § 15 4.1.1.3.5 Page 190 Appendix 1 “Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 16)” Page 298 ESRS 2 § 16 4.1.1.3.6 Page 190 Appendix 3 “Table of information incorporated by reference” Page 308 ESRS 2 § 21 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2 “Composition of the Board of Directors, and preparation and organization of its work” Page 103 ESRS 2 § 21 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.1 ""Executive bodies"" Page 102 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work” Page 133 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work” Page 133 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.1 ""Executive bodies"" Page 102 ESRS 2 § 23 4.1.2.1 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors”, paragraph “Presentation of directors for the 2024 financial year” Page 104 ESRS 2 § 23 4.1.2.1 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Directors' training” Page 135 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Role of the Board of Directors” Page 136 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Committee activity during the year” Page 140 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Committee activity during the year” Page 140 ESRS 2 § 29 4.1.2.3 Page 194 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.3.1 ""Compensation of corporate officers"", paragraph ""Overview of the compensation policies for the corporate officers in respect of the 2024 financial year"", section 3.3.2 ""Compensation of corporate officers in respect of the 2024 financial year"", and section 3.3.3 ""Overall compensation of other Group senior executives"" Page 152 ESRS 2 § 30 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Appendix 2 – Mapping of information provided on the due diligence process Page 306 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Chapter 2 ""Risks and Risk Management"", and section 4.1.4 ""Impact, risk and opportunity management"" Pages 81 and 201 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph ""Other work-related rights"" Page 267 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Health and safety” Page 266 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 308 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.2.4 “Pollution” Page 236 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Appendix 2 – Mapping of information provided on the due diligence process Page 306 ESRS 2 § 36 4.1.2.5 Page 195 Chapter 2 ""Risks and Risk Management"", section 2.3 ""Internal control and risk management"" Page 93 ESRS 2 § 36 4.1.2.5 Page 195 Section 4.7 ""Report on the certification of Sustainability and Taxonomy information” Page 342 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Chapter 1, section 1.4 ""Operational organization"" Page 55 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Management report “Group positioning” Page 42 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, paragraph “Value chain and dependency analysis” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.3 “Strategy and business model” Page 195 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.4 “Impact, risk and opportunity management” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.3 “Strategy and business model” Page 195 ESRS 2 § 49 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 53 4.1.4.1 Page 201 Section 2.1 “Risk factors” Page 82 ESRS 2 § 56 4.1.4.2 Page 203 Appendix 1 “Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56)” Page 298 ESRS 2 § 59 4.1.4.2 Page 203 Chapter 4 “Sustainability Report”, section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify material sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities”, paragraph “Methodology and assessment process” Page 201 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.3 Page 203 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 14 ""List of consolidated companies"" Page 423 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.3 Page 208 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, section 4.2.3.6 “Climate-related actions and resources”, section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”) Pages 223, 228, 229, 234 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 209 Note 5.1 ""Sales"" to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Page 371 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 209 Notes 7.2 ""Other intangible assets"" and 7.3 ""Property, plant and equipment"" to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Pages 389 to 393 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Note 7.2 ""Other intangible assets"" to the consolidated financial statements, presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Page 389 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Section 4.2.3 “Climate strategy” Page 217 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments” Page 205 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 211 Section 4.2.6.4 “Policies related to biodiversity” Page 250 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.6 Page 216 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Financing” Page 223 ESRS E1 4.2.3 Page 217 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation” Page 223 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 309"
"ESRS E1 § 13 4.2.3.1 Page 217 Section 4.1.2.3 “Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes” Page 194 ESRS E1 § 19 4.2.3.2 Page 218 Appendix 4 – GRI – SASB – TCFD cross-reference tables Page 315 ESRS E1 § 19 4.2.3.2 Page 218 Section 4.2.3.3.1 ""Analysis of physical and transition risks"" Section 4.2.3.3.2 ""Adaptation of strategy and business model"" Pages 219, 222 ESRS E1 § 20 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E1 § 21 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E1 § 21 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Sections 4.2.3.2 ""Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model"", and 4.1.3.3 ""Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model"" Pages 218, 200 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks” Page 219 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Investments and funding to support the implementation of the transition plan"" Page 223 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 7.4.6 “Sensitivity of impairment tests to the impacts of climate change” Page 397 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 224 Section 4.2.3.6 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies” Page 228 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6 “Notes to the consolidated financial statements”, Notes 1.3.6 “Financing” and 9.1.2.1 “Long-term debt” Pages 364, 402 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.2.2.5 “Taxonomy KPI tables” Page 212 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.1.2 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives” Page 191 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.2.3.8 “Energy consumption” and section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050” Pages 233, 234 ESRS E1 § 29 4.2.3.6 Page 229 Section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy” Page 206 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 231 Section 4.2.3.9 ""Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050” Page 234 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 232 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation” Page 223 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 232 Section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks” Page 219 ESRS E1 § 47 4.2.3.9 Page 234 Section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030” Page 229 ESRS E1 § 50 4.2.3.9 Page 234 Section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030” Page 229 ESRS E2/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.4.1 Page 237 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E2/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.4.1 Page 237 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E2-1 § 12 to 15 4.2.4.2 Page 237 Section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments” Page 205 ESRS E2-1 § 12 to 15 4.2.4.2 Page 238 Section 4.2.7.4 “Waste” Page 257 ESRS E2 § 19 4.2.4.3 Page 240 Section 4.2.7.4 “Waste” Page 257 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 310 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.2.3.3.1 ""Analysis of physical and transition risks"", paragraph “Physical risks - Analysis methodology"" Page 219 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 16 4.2.6.2 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 17 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E4 § 17 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E4 § 19 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 19 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 249 ESRS E4 § 23 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 24 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 24 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 35 4.2.6.7 Page 251 Section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 249 ESRS E5 § 11 4.2.7.1 Page 252 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E5 § 11 4.2.7.1 Page 252 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E5 § 14 - 15 4.2.7.2.1 Page 253 Section 4.2.5 ""Water resources"" and section 4.2.7.4 ""Waste"" Pages 244,257 ESRS E5 § 35 4.2.7.2.4 Page 255 Section 4.2.7.2.2 “Actions and resources related to circular economy” Page 253 ESRS E5 § 16 4.2.7.4.1 Page 257 Section 4.2.7.2.1 “Policies related to circular economy – 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 16 4.2.7.4.2 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.2 “Circular economy: 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 23 - 24 4.2.7.4.3 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.2 “Circular economy: 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 23-24 4.2.7.4.3 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.3 “Resource inflows” Page 256 ESRS E5-6 4.2.7.5 Page 259 Section 4.2.2.2 “Summary of KPIs” Page 206 ESRS S1 4 Page 260 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 12 4.3.1.1 Page 261 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 262 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 262 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.3 “The Group’s employee policy” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.6 “Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 262 Section 4.3.1.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 261 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 262 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 265 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 266 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 311"
"ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Diversity” Page 266 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Diversity” Page 266 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.1.2.4 “Statement on due diligence” Page 194 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 268 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 268 Section 4.3.1.3 “Freedom of association, the existence of works councils and the information, consultation and participation rights of workers” Page 265 ESRS S1 § 32 4.3.1.5 Page 269 Sections 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"" and 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"" in the following paragraphs ""Secure employment"", ""Working time"", ""Adequate wages"", ""Health and safety"", ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"", ""Employment and inclusion of people with disabilities"", ""Diversity, equity, inclusion"", ""Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace"", ""Training and skills development"" Pages 263, 270 ESRS S1 § 35 - 37 - 38 - 39 - 40 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Sections 4.3.1.1 ""Strong employee relations"" and 4.3.1.4 ""Commitments related to Valeo's own workforce"" Pages 261, 268 ESRS S1 § 41 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, and 4.3.3.4 “Impacts related to consumer and/or end-user safety” Pages 263, 288 ESRS S1 § 42 - 43 - 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Chapter 1, section 1.6.9 “Human Resources” Page 79 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Employee Engagement (EE) roadmaps"" Page 263 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Training and skills development"" Page 275 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.4 “Commitments related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 268 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.12 ""Adequate wages"" Page 280 ESRS S1 § 43 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 43 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Social dialogue"" Page 271 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 272 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Work-life balance"" Page 271 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 272 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Health and safety”, page XXX); Page 266 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Chapter 3, section 3.3.1 “Compensation policies for corporate officers”, paragraph “Overview of the compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer in respect of the 2024 financial year” Page 152 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Employment and inclusion of people with disabilities"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 274 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Diversity, Equity, Inclusion"" Page 273 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Diversity, Equity, Inclusion"" Page 273 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.6 “Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace” Page 275 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 312 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"2-25 Guidance to 2-25-e Processes to remediate negative impacts ESRS S1-17 103b AR103- AR106 Number of complaints filed through channels for own workforce to raise concerns 4.3.1.19 2-25 to 26 2-25-d to e; 2-26-a-i Processes to remediate negative impacts; Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns ESRS S1-3 32e AR32 Disclosure of how issues raised and addressed are tracked and monitored and how effectiveness of channels is ensured 4.3.1.5 2-27 a Compliance with laws and regulations ESRS G1-4 24a Number of convictions for violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws 4.4.6 2-27 b Compliance with laws and regulations ESRS G1-4 24b Amount of fines for violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws 4.4.6 ESRS S1-17 103c AR103- AR106 Amount of material fines, penalties, and compensation for damages as a result of violations regarding social and human rights factors 4.3.1.19 ESRS S1-17 104b AR103- AR106 Amount of material fines, penalties, and compensation for severe human rights issues and incidents connected to own workforce 4.3.1.19 2-29 a Approach to stakeholder engagement ESRS S1-1 20b Disclosure of general approach in relation to engagement with people in its own workforce 4.3.1.3 2-29 a-iii Approach to stakeholder engagement ESRS S1-2 27e AR24 Disclosure of how effectiveness of engagement with its own workforce is assessed 4.3.1.4 2-29 a-iii; Guidance to 2-29-a-iii Approach to stakeholder engagement ESRS S1-2 28 AR23 Disclosure of steps taken to gain insight into perspectives of people in its own workforce that may be particularly vulnerable to impacts and (or) marginalized 4.3.1.4 2-29 Guidance to 2-29-a-ii Approach to stakeholder engagement ESRS S1-2 27a Engagement occurs with own workforce or their representatives 4.3.1.4 ESRS S1-2 27b AR19 Disclosure of stage at which engagement occurs, type of engagement and frequency of engagement 4.3.1.4 2-30 a Collective bargaining ESRS S1-8 60a AR66 Percentage of its total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 4.3.1.10 2-30 Guidance to 2-30-a Collective bargaining ESRS S1-8 60b Percentage of its employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are within coverage rate by country (in the EEA) 4.3.1.10 ESRS S1-8 60c The undertaking shall disclose outside the EEA, the percentage of its own employees covered by collective bargaining agreements by region 4.3.1.10 ESRS S1-8 AR70 Own workforce in region (non-EEA) covered by collective bargaining agreements by coverage rate and by region 4.3.1.10 2-4 a-i Restatements of information ESRS 2 BP-2 13a Explanation of changes in preparation and presentation of sustainability information and reasons for them 4.1.1.3 2-4 a-ii Restatements of information ESRS 2 BP-2 13b Disclosure of revised comparative figures 4.1.1.3 2-6 b-i; d Activities, value chain and other business relationships ESRS 2 SBM-1 40ai AR12- AR13 Description of significant groups of products and (or) services offered 4.1.3.1 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40aii AR12- AR13 Description of significant markets and (or) customer groups served 4.1.3.1 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 318 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"2-7 a Employees ESRS 2 SBM-1 40aiii AR12- AR13 Total number of employees (head count) 4.1.3.1 ESRS S1-6 50a Characteristics of undertaking's employees - number of employees in countries with 50 or more employees representing at least 10% of total number of employees [table] 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50a AR57 Number of employees in countries with 50 or more employees representing at least 10% of total number of employees 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 Average number of employees in countries with 50 or more employees representing at least 10% of total number of employees 4.3.1.8 2-7 b-i to iii Employees ESRS S1-6 50b Characteristics of undertaking's employees - information on employees by contract type and gender [table] 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50b-51 Number of employees (head count or full-time equivalent) 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 Average number of employees (head count or full-time equivalent) 4.3.1.8 2-7 b-iv Employees ESRS S1-6 52a Number of full-time employees by head count or full-time equivalent 4.3.1.8 2-7 b-iv to v Employees ESRS S1-6 52 Further detailed breakdown by gender and by region [table] 4.3.1.8 2-7 b-v Employees ESRS S1-6 52b Number of part-time employees by head count or full time equivalent 4.3.1.8 2-7 d to e Employees ESRS S1-6 50e AR58 Disclosure of contextual information necessary to understand data (employees) 4.3.1.8 2-8 a Workers who are not employees ESRS S1-7 55a Number of non-employees in own workforce - people provided by undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities 4.3.1.9 ESRS S1-7 Number of non-employees in own workforce - self-employed people 4.3.1.9 ESRS S1-7 55a AR61 Number of non-employees in own workforce 4.3.1.9 2-9 b Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 22a Information about identity of administrative, management and supervisory bodies or individual(s) within body responsible for oversight of impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.2.1 2-9 c-i Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 21a Number of executive members 4.1.2.1 ESRS 2 GOV-1 Number of non-executive members 4.1.2.1 2-9 c-ii Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 21e Percentage of board members who are independent 4.1.2.1 2-9 c-vii Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 21c AR5 Information about member's experience relevant to sectors, products and geographic locations of undertaking 4.1.2.1 ESRS 2 GOV-1 23a Information about sustainability-related expertise that bodies either directly possess or can leverage 4.1.2.1 ESRS 2 GOV-1 23b Description of how those skills and expertise relate to the undertaking's material impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.2.1 2-9 c-viii Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 21b Information about representation of employees and other workers 4.1.2.1 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 319"
"GRI 2; 3 General Disclosures 2021; Material Topics 2021 2-24; 3-3 2-24-a-iii to iv; Guidance to 3-3-d-i Embedding policy commitments; Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR35 Disclosure of how undertaking seeks to use leverage with relevant business relationships to manage material negative impacts affecting own workforce 4.3.1.6 2-25; 3-3 2-25-a; 3-3-d-ii Processes to remediate negative impacts; Management of material topics ESRS S1-1 20c Disclosure of general approach in relation to measures to provide and (or) enable remedy for human rights impacts 4.3.1.3 GRI 2; 403 General Disclosures 2021; Occupational Health and Safety 2018 2-25; 403-2 2-25-b; 403-2-b Processes to remediate negative impacts; Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation ESRS S1-3 32b AR28 Disclosure of specific channels in place for its own workforce to raise concerns or needs directly with undertaking and have them addressed 4.3.1.5 2-25; 403-2 Guidance to 2-5-e; 403-2-b Processes to remediate negative impacts; Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation; External assurance ESRS S1-3 33 Policies regarding protection against retaliation for individuals that use channels to raise concerns or needs are in place 4.3.1.5 GRI 2; 405 General Disclosures 2021; Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 2-7; 405-1 2-7-a; 405-1-b-i Employees; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS S1-6 50a Characteristics of undertaking's employees - number of employees by gender [table] 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50a AR57 Number of employees (head count) 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 Average number of employees (head count) 4.3.1.8 2-9; 405-1 2-9-c-v to vi; 405-1- a-i to iii Governance structure and composition; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS 2 GOV-1 21d Percentage of members of administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.1 2-9; 405-1 2-9-c-v; 405-1-a-i Governance structure and composition; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS 2 GOV-1 21d Board's gender diversity 4.1.2.1 GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016 201-1 a-i Direct economic value generated and distributed ESRS 2 SBM-1 40b AR12- AR13 Total net revenue (financial statements) 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-6 AR55 Net revenue 4.2.3.9 201-2 a-i Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ESRS E1.SBM-3 18 Type of climate-related risk 4.2.3.3 GRI 202 Market Presence 2016 202-1 a; c to d Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage ESRS S1-10 69 AR72- AR74 All employees are paid adequate wage, in line with applicable benchmarks 4.3.1.12 ESRS S1-10 70 Percentage of employees paid below the applicable adequate wage benchmark 4.3.1.12 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 a to b Significant indirect economic impacts ESRS S1-4 AR41 Indication of whether any such initiatives are designed also to support the achievement of one or more Sustainable Development Goals 4.3.1.6 GRI 205 Anti- corruption 2016 205-2 d to e Communication and training about anti- corruption policies and procedures ESRS G1-3 21b AR4 The percentage of functions-at-risk covered by training programmes 4.4.5 ESRS G1-3 AR8 Prevention and detection of corruption or bribery - anti-corruption and bribery training table 4.4.5 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 320 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3 Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ESRS E2-3 22 AR19 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.4.4 ESRS E3-3 22 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.5.4 ESRS E4-3 27 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 ESRS E5-3 23 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.7.2.3 ESRS S1-4 37 Action plans and resources to manage its material impacts, risks, and opportunities related to its own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 46 AR50- AR52 Targets set to manage material impacts, risks and opportunities related to own workforce 4.3.1.7 3-1 a-i Process to determine material topics ESRS 2 BP-1 5c AR1 Disclosure of extent to which sustainability statement covers upstream and downstream value chain 4.1.1.1 3-3 e-iii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33c Disclosure of how far undertaking has progressed in efforts during reporting period 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-iv Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33d Aims for continued improvement 4.3.1.6 3-3 a to b Management of material topics ESRS S1-17 104a AR105 Number of severe human rights issues and incidents connected to own workforce 4.3.1.19 3-3 b Management of material topics ESRS E2.IRO-1 11c AR9 Disclosure of results of materiality assessment (pollution) 4.2.4.1 3-3 c Management of material topics ESRS E1-2 25 AR16- AR18 Sustainability matters addressed by policy for climate change 4.2.3.5 ESRS S1-1 24a Specific policies aimed at elimination of discrimination are in place 3-3 d-i to ii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33a Disclosure of general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 d-i to iii Management of material topics ESRS E2-2 19 AR14 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which resources can be allocated to (pollution) 4.2.4.3 ESRS S1-1 24d How these policies are implemented through specific procedures to ensure discrimination is prevented, mitigated and acted upon once detected, as well as to advance diversity and inclusion in general. 4.3.1.3 3-3 d-ii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38b Disclosure on whether and how action has been taken to provide or enable remedy in relation to actual material impact 4.3.1.6 3-3 d-iii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38c Description of additional initiatives or actions with primary purpose of delivering positive impacts for own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR33b Disclosure of initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 321"
"3-3 e-i Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38d AR38- AR39 Description of how effectiveness of actions and initiatives in delivering outcomes for own workforce is tracked and assessed 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-ii; Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation ESRS E1-4 33 Disclosure of how GHG emissions reduction targets and (or) any other targets have been set to manage material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.7 3-3 f Management of material topics ESRS S1-2 27 Disclosure of whether and how perspectives of own workforce inform decisions or activities aimed at managing actual and potential impacts 4.3.1.4 ESRS S1-4 39 AR34 Description of process through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in response to particular actual or potential negative impact on own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 47b Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in tracking performance against targets 4.3.1.7 ESRS S1-5 47c Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in identifying lessons or improvements as result of undertaking’s performance 4.3.1.7 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-a Management of material topics ESRS SBM-3 14b Material negative impacts occurrence (own workforce) 4.3.1.2 ESRS SBM-3 14c Description of activities that result in positive impacts and types of employees and non-employees in its own workforce that are positively affected or could be positively affected 4.3.1.2 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-d Management of material topics ESRS E3-2 18 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which action and resources can be allocated to (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.3 ESRS S1-4 43 Disclosure of resources allocated to the management of material impacts 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR48 Description of internal functions that are involved in managing impacts and types of action taken by internal functions to address negative and advance positive impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Management of material topics ESRS E1-4 34e-16a AR26 GHG emission reduction target is science based and compatible with limiting global warming to one and half degrees Celsius 4.2.3.7 ESRS E2-3 25 Pollution-related target is mandatory (required by legislation)/voluntary 4.2.4.4 3-3; 303-1, 303-1c Management of material topics; Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-2 17 AR19- AR21 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 GRI 3; 306 Material Topics 2021; Waste 2020 3-3; 306-2 306-2-a Management of material topics; Management of significant waste-related impacts ESRS E5-2 19 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 GRI 3; 403 Material Topics 2021; Occupational Health and Safety 2018 3-3; 403-9 to 10 3-3- d-I; 403-9- c-iii; 403-9-d; 403-10- c-iii Management of material topics; Work-related injuries; Work-related ill health ESRS S1-4 38a Description of action taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate negative impacts on own workforce 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 322 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3; 408; 409 Material Topics 2021; Child Labor 2016; Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 3-3; 408-1; 409-1 3-3-c; 408-1-c; 409-1-b Management of material topics; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ESRS S1-1 22 Policies explicitly address trafficking in human beings, forced labor or compulsory labor and child labor 4.3.1.3 GRI 3; GRI 201 Material Topics 2021; Economic Performance 2016 3-3 201-2 a-iv to v Management of material topics; Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ESRS E1-3 28 Actions and Resources related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.6 GRI 301 Materials 2016 301-1 a Materials used by weight or volume ESRS E5-4 31a Overall total weight of products and technical and biological materials used during the reporting period 4.2.7.3.4 301-1 to 2 301-1-2.1. 4; 301-2-2.3 Materials used by weight or volume; Recycled input materials used ESRS E5-4 32 AR24 Description of methodologies used to calculate data and key assumptions used 4.2.7.3.4 GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 a Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 38a AR33 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38b AR33 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38c AR33 Fuel consumption from natural gas 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38d AR33 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 b Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37ci Fuel consumption from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37ciii Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 4.2.3.8 302-1 c Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37cii Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38e AR33 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 e Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37 AR35 Total energy consumption 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37a AR33 Total energy consumption from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37b Total energy consumption from nuclear sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37c Total energy consumption from renewable 4.2.3.8 302-3 a to d Energy intensity ESRS E1-5 40 AR36 Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors (total energy consumption per net revenue) 4.2.3.8 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 323"
"GRI 303 Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 a to b Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS IRO-1 8a AR1- AR15 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources- related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 303-1 c Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS IRO-1 8b Disclosure of how consultations have been conducted (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.1 303-1 d Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-3 24 AR22 (Local) ecological threshold and entity-specific allocation were taken into consideration when setting water and marine resources target 4.2.5.4 ESRS E3-3 25 Adopted and presented water and marine resources-related target is mandatory (based on legislation) 4.2.5.4 303-3 a Water withdrawal ESRS E3-4 AR32 Total water withdrawals 4.2.5.5 303-4 a Water discharge ESRS E3-4 AR32 Total water discharges 4.2.5.5 303-5 a Water consumption E3-4 28a Total water consumption 4.2.5.5 303-5 b Water consumption ESRS E3-4 28b AR28 Total water consumption in areas at water risk, including areas of high-water stress 4.2.5.5 303-5 d Water consumption ESRS E3-4 28e AR29 Disclosure of contextual information regarding water consumption 4.2.5.5 GRI 304 Biodiversity 2016 304-1 a-iv Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ESRS E4-5 35 Number of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that undertaking is negatively affecting 4.2.6.7 ESRS IRO-1 19a AR7d Activities negatively affecting biodiversity sensitive areas 4.2.6.3 ESRS IRO-1 Undertaking has sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas 4.2.6.2 ESRS SBM-3 16aii Breakdown of material sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive area 4.2.6.2 304-1 to 2 304-1-a-v; 304-2-b GHG emissions intensity ESRS E4-5 35 Area of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that undertaking is negatively affecting 4.2.6.7 304-2 a Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity ESRS SBM-3 16ai Activities related to sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas negatively affect these areas where conclusions or necessary mitigation measures have not been implemented or are ongoing 4.2.6.2 304-2 a-i; a-v to vi Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity ESRS E4-5 38 Disclosure of metrics considered relevant (land-use change, freshwater-use change and (or) sea-use change) 4.2.6.7 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 324 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 a Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 48a AR43 Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 1-d; 2-d; 3-e; 5-c Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions; Reduction of GHG emissions ESRS E1-4 34c Disclosure of past progress made in meeting target before current base year 4.2.3.7 305-1 to 3 1-e to g; 2-e to g; 3-f to g Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR39b Disclosure of methodologies, significant assumptions and emissions factors used to calculate or measure GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 2.2.5; 2.4.5; 2.6.5 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR41 GHG emissions - by country, operating segments, economic activity, subsidiary, GHG category or source type 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 305-1-a; 305-2-a; 305-2-b; 305-3-a Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 44 AR39 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 44-52a AR47 Total GHG emissions (location-based) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 44-52b AR47 Total GHG emissions (market-based) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 52a AR47 Scope 2 location-based 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 52b AR47 Scope 2 market-based 4.2.3.9 305-2 a Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 49a AR45 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-2 b Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 49b AR45 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-3 a Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 51 AR46 Gross Scope 3 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 325"
"305-3 d Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR46i List of Scope 3 GHG emissions categories included in inventory 4.2.3.9 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR46d Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 AR46i Disclosure of why Scope 3 GHG emissions category has been excluded 4.2.3.9 305-4 a to c GHG emissions intensity ESRS E1-6 53 AR53 GHG emissions intensity, location-based (total GHG emissions per net revenue) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 GHG emissions intensity, market-based (total GHG emissions per net revenue) 4.2.3.9 305-5 a to d GHG emission reduction ESRS E1-4 34a-34b Absolute value of location-based Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of Scope 3 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of market-based Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of total Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 305-7 2.14.2 Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 28a AR21- AR22 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 305-7 a Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 28a AR21- AR22 Emissions to air by pollutant 4.2.4.5 305-7 b to c Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 30b Description of measurement methodologies (pollution of air, water and soil) 4.2.4.5 ESRS E2-4 30c Description of process(es) to collect data for pollution-related accounting and reporting 4.2.4.5 GRI 305-5 a GHG emission reduction ESRS E1-3 29b Achieved GHG emission reductions 4.2.3.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 326 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 a Waste by type and disposal method ESRS E5-2 20e AR13 Description of actions taken to prevent waste generation 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-2 20f Description of optimisation of waste management in line with the waste hierarchy 4.2.7.2.2 306-2 c Waste by type and disposal method ESRS IRO-1 11a AR1- AR6 Disclosure of methodologies, assumptions and tools used in the screening in order to identify actual and potential impacts, risks and opportunities in own operations and upstream and downstream value chain 4.2.7.1 306-2-a Waste by type and disposal method ESRS E5-2 20b Description of higher rates of use of secondary raw materials (recyclates) 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-2 20c Description of application of circular design 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-2 AR12 Information about collective action on development of collaborations or initiatives increasing circularity of products and materials 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-2 AR13a Description of contribution to circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 ESRS E5-5 36b Disclosure of the reparability of products 4.2.7.2.4 306-2 to 5 306-2-c; 306-3-b; 306-4-e; 306-5-e Waste by type and disposal method; Significant spills; Transport of hazardous waste; Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff ESRS E5-5 40 AR33 Description of methodologies used to calculate data (waste generated) 4.2.7.4.4 306-3 a Significant spills ESRS E5-5 37a Total amount of waste generated 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 39 Total amount of hazardous waste 4.2.7.4.4 306-3 to 4; 305-5 3-a; 4-a; 5-a Significant spills; Reduction of GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions; GHG emissions intensity ESRS E5-5 38 Disclosure of composition of waste 4.2.7.4.4 306-3 to 5 306-3-a; 306-4-a; 306-5-a Significant spills; Transport of hazardous waste; Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff ESRS E5-5 38a Disclosure of waste streams relevant to undertaking's sector or activities 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 38b Disclosure of materials that are present in waste 4.2.7.4.4 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 327"
"306-4 c-iii Transport of hazardous waste ESRS E5-5 37b Hazardous waste diverted from disposal 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37bi Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to preparation for reuse 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37bii Hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to recycling 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to recycling 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37biii AR31 Hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to other recovery operations 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to other recovery operations 4.2.7.4.4 306-5 c-iv Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff ESRS E5-5 37c Hazardous waste directed to disposal 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37ci Hazardous waste directed to disposal by incineration 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal by incineration 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 37cii Hazardous waste directed to disposal by landfilling 4.2.7.4.4 ESRS E5-5 Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal by landfilling 4.2.7.4.4 GRI 401 Employment 2016 401-1 b New employee hires and employee turnover ESRS S1-6 50c Percentage of employee turnover 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50c AR59 Number of employee who have left undertaking 4.3.1.8 401-2 a-ii to v; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 75 AR75 Social protection employees by country [table] by types of events and type of employees 4.3.1.13 401-2 a-ii; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 74a All employees in own workforce are covered by social protection, through public programs or through benefits offered, against loss of income due to sickness 4.3.1.13 401-2 a-iii; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 74c All employees in own workforce are covered by social protection, through public programs or through benefits offered, against loss of income due to employment injury and acquired disability 4.3.1.13 401-2 a-iv; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 74d All employees in own workforce are covered by social protection, through public programs or through benefits offered, against loss of income due to parental leave 4.3.1.13 401-2 a-v; b Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees ESRS S1-11 74e All employees in own workforce are covered by social protection, through public programs or through benefits offered, against loss of income due to retirement 4.3.1.13 401-3 a Parental leave ESRS S1-15 93a AR96- AR97 Percentage of employees entitled to take family-related leave 4.3.1.17 401-3 b Parental leave ESRS S1-15 93b Percentage of entitled employees that took family-related leave by gender [table] 4.3.1.17 ESRS S1-15 Percentage of entitled employees that took family-related leave 4.3.1.17 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 328 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 a Occupational health and safety management system ESRS S1-1 23 Workplace accident prevention policy or management system 4.3.1.3 403-8 a-i Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system ESRS S1-14 88a AR80 Percentage of people in its own workforce who are covered by the undertaking's health and safety management system based on legal requirements and/or recognised standards or guidelines 4.3.1.16 403-8 a-ii to iii Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system ESRS S1-14 90 Percentage of own workforce who are covered by health and safety management system based on legal requirements and (or) recognized standards or guidelines and which has been internally audited and (or) audited or certified by external party 4.3.1.16 403-9 a-iii; b-iii Work-related injuries ESRS S1-14 88c Number of recordable work-related accidents for own workforce 4.3.1.16 ESRS S1-14 Rate of recordable work-related accidents for own workforce 4.3.1.16 403-9 Work-related injuries ESRS S1-14 88e AR89- AR95 Number of days lost to work-related injuries and fatalities from work-related accidents, work-related ill health and fatalities from ill health related to employees 4.3.1.16 403-9 to 10 a-i; b-i Work-related injuries; Work- related ill health ESRS S1-14 88b AR89- AR91 Number of fatalities in own workforce as result of work-related injuries and work-related ill health 4.3.1.16 403-9 to 10 b-i Work-related injuries; Work- related ill health ESRS S1-14 88b AR89- AR91 Number of fatalities as result of work-related injuries and work-related ill health of other workers working on undertaking's sites 4.3.1.16 GRI 404 Training and Education 2016 404-1 a-i Average hours of training per year per employee ESRS S1-13 83b AR78 Average number of training hours per person for employees 4.3.1.15 ESRS S1-13 Average number of training hours by gender [table] 4.3.1.15 404-1; 404-3 404-1-a-ii; 404-3-a Average hours of training per year per employee; Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ESRS S1-13 84 AR79 Average number of employees that participated in regular performance and career development reviews by employee category 4.3.1.15 ESRS S1-13 Percentage of employees that participated in regular performance and career development reviews by employee category [table] 4.3.1.15 404-3 a Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ESRS S1-13 83a AR77 Training and skills development indicators gender [table] 4.3.1.15 ESRS S1-13 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 4.3.1.15 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 329"
GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 a-i; b-i Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS S1-9 66a Number of employees (head count) at top management level 4.3.1.11 ESRS S1-9 Percentage of employees at top management level 4.3.1.11 405-1 b-ii Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS S1-9 66b Number of employees (head count) between 30 and 50 years old 4.3.1.11 ESRS S1-9 Number of employees (head count) over 50 years old 4.3.1.11 ESRS S1-9 Number of employees (head count) under 30 years old 4.3.1.11 405-1 b-iii Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS S1-12 79 Percentage of persons with disabilities amongst employees subject to legal restrictions on collection of data 4.3.1.14 405-2 a to b Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men ESRS S1-16 97a AR98- AR99 Gender pay gap 4.3.1.18 ESRS S1-16 98 Gender pay gap breakdown by employee category and/or country/segment [table] 4.3.1.18 GRI 406 Non- discrimination 2016 406-1 a Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ESRS S1-17 103a Number of incidents of discrimination [table] 4.3.1.19 ESRS S1-17 103a AR103- AR106 Number of incidents of discrimination [table] 4.3.1.19 GRI 408 Child Labor 2016 408-1 a-i; b-i Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor ESRS SBM-3 14gi Information about type of operations at significant risk of incidents of child labor 4.3.1.2 408-1 a-i; b-ii Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor ESRS SBM-3 14gii Information about countries or geographic areas with operations considered at significant risk of incidents of child labor 4.3.1.2 GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 a-i Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ESRS SBM-3 14fi Information about type of operations at significant risk of incidents of forced labor or compulsory labor 4.3.1.2 409-1 a-ii Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ESRS SBM-3 14fii Information about countries or geographic areas with operations considered at significant risk of incidents of forced labor or compulsory labor 4.3.1.2 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 330 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024
"Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) cross-reference table TCFD Recommendations Chapters/Sections GOVERNANCE Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities 4.1.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives (DR GOV-1)” b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities 4.1.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives (DR GOV-1)” STRATEGY Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the undertaking has identified over the short, medium and long term 4.2.3.3 “Identification and assessment of material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR linked to ESRS 2 IRO-1)” b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organizations’ businesses, strategy and financial planning 4.2.3.3 “Identification and assessment of material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR linked to ESRS 2 IRO-1)” c) Describe the resilience of the undertaking’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario 4.2.3.3 “Identification and assessment of material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR linked to ESRS 2 IRO-1)” 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation (DR E1-1)” RISK MANAGEMENT Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks a) Describe the undertaking’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks 4.2.3.3 “Identification and assessment of material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR linked to ESRS 2 IRO-1)” b) Describe the undertaking’s processes for managing climate-related risks 4.2.3.3 “Identification and assessment of material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR linked to ESRS 2 IRO-1)” 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation (DR E1-1)” c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the undertaking’s overall risk management 4.2.3.3 “Identification and assessment of material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR linked to ESRS 2 IRO-1)” METRICS AND TARGETS Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is significant a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process 4.2.3.3 “Identification and assessment of material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR linked to ESRS 2 IRO-1)” b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and the related risks 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation (DR E1-1)” c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, (DR E1-1)” section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, (DR E1-4)” section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”, (DR E1-6) “ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 331"
"Appendix 5 – Table of sustainability metrics ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS E1 CLIMATE CHANGE E1-5 Energy consumption and mix Total energy consumption E1-5 37 AR35 4.2.3.8 Mwh 2,818,900 2,690,365 Total fossil energy consumption E1-5 37a AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 1,349,635 1,055,934 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption E1-5 AR34 4.2.3.8 % 48% 39% Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources E1-5 38e AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 703,210 480,294 Fuel consumption from natural gas E1-5 38c AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 540,951 487,369 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources E1-5 38d AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 72,903 68,352 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products E1-5 38b AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 32,571 19,919 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products E1-5 38a AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh Not material Not material Total consumption from nuclear sources E1-5 37b 4.2.3.8 Mwh 264,555 201,883 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption E1-5 AR34 4.2.3.8 % 9% 8% Total renewable energy consumption E1-5 37c 4.2.3.8 Mwh 1,204,710 1,432,548 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption E1-5 AR34-AR71 4.2.3.8 % 43% 53% Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources E1-5 37cii 4.2.3.8 Mwh 1,193,076 1,417,095 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy E1-5 37ciii 4.2.3.8 Mwh 11,634 15,453 Fuel consumption from renewable sources, including biomass E1-5 37ci 4.2.3.8 Mwh Not material Not material Non-renewable energy production E1-5 39 4.2.3.8 Mwh 0 0 Renewable energy production E1-5 39 4.2.3.8 Mwh 11,634 15,453 Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors E1-5 AR38b 4.2.3.8 €m 22,044 21,492 Net revenue (other) E1-5 AR38b 4.2.3.8 €m 0 0 Total net revenue (financial statements) E1-5 AR38b 4.2.3.8 €m 22,044 21,492 Total energy consumption from activities performed in sectors with high climate impact E1-5 41 4.2.3.8 Mwh 2,818,900 2,690,365 Energy intensity associated with activities performed in high climate impact sectors E1-5 40 AR36 4.2.3.8 Mwh/€m 128 125 Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section Unit 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 332 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) E1-6 44-52a AR47 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 47,717,546 41,653,123 Total GHG emissions (market-based) E1-6 44-52b AR47 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 47,349,032 41,128,099 Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions E1-6 48a AR43 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 186,121 164,569 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions E1-6 49a AR45 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 832,768 816,042 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions E1-6 49b AR45 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 464,254 291,018 Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions E1-6 51 AR46 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 46,698,657 40,672,513 (1) Purchased goods and services E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 7,972,051 7,573,369 (2) Capital goods E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 758,820 167,420 (3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 146,970 148,709 (4) Upstream transportation and distribution E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 317,095 300,889 (5) Waste generated in operations E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 28,992 27,637 (6) Business travel E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 43,426 40,807 (7) Employee commuting E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 187,757 176,688 (8) Upstream leased assets E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 0 0 (9) Downstream transportation E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 387,587 387,903 (10) Processing of sold products E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 380,000 380,000 (11) Use of sold products E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 36,155,959 30,489,590 (12) End-of-life treatment of sold products E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 320,000 320,000 (13) Downstream leased assets E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 0 0 (14) Franchises E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 0 0 (15) Investments E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 0 659,500 Percentage of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data E1-6 AR46g 4.2.3.9 % 0% 0% Total location-based Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions E1-6 50 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 1,018,889 980,610 Total market-based Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions E1-6 50 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 650,375 455,586 Total GHG emissions (location-based) by net revenue E1-6 53 AR53 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq./€m 2,165 1,938 Total GHG emissions (market-based) by net revenue E1-6 53 AR53 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq./€m 2,148 1,914 Total net revenue (financial statements) E1-6 AR55 4.2.3.9 M€ 22,044 21,492 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity E1-6 AR55 4.2.3.9 M€ 22,044 21,492 Net revenue (other) E1-6 AR55 4.2.3.9 M€ 0 0 Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section Unit 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 333"
"E2 POLLUTION E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil Emissions into air E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 370,096 215,207 Total VOC emissions E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 364,467 209,396 Heavy metals – Air E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg Not material Not material HCFC E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 1,334 1,111 CFC E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 0 0 HFC E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 4,039 4,446 HALON E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 256 254 NOx E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg Not material Not material Percentage of emissions of pollutants to water in areas at water risk E2-4 AR23c 4.2.4.5 % Not available Not material Percentage of emissions of pollutants to water in areas of high-water stress E2-4 AR23c 4.2.4.5 % Not available Not material E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Total amounts of substances of very high concern in products E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 193 of which CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 151 of which ED: EnDocrine disruptor for human health or the environment. E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 0.408 of which PBT: Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 40 of which vPvB: very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 0 of which PMT: Persistent, Mobile and Toxic E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 0 of which vPvM: very Persistent, very Mobile E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 0 of which SVHC: substances of very high concern without label E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 2 Substances of very high concern generated or used in production E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 735 of which CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 735 E3 WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES E3-4 Water consumption Total water consumption E3-4 28a 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available 790,451 Water consumption intensity ratio E3-4 29 4.2.5.5 cu.m/€m Not available 37 Total water consumption in areas of water stress, including areas of high-water stress E3-4 28b AR28 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available 277,030 Total water withdrawn E3-4 AR32 4.2.5.5 cu.m 3,027,288 2,609,927 Water withdrawal intensity ratio E3-4 AR31 4.2.5.5 cu.m/€m 148 121 Total water discharged E3-4 AR32 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available 1,819,476 Total water recycled and reused E3-4 28c 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available 292,220 Total water stored E3-4 28d 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available Not material Changes in water storage E3-4 28d 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available Not material E3-5 Anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section Unit 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 334 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"E4 BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS E4-5 Impact metrics tracking biodiversity change Number of sites owned, leased or managed in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas that the undertaking is negatively impacting E4-5 35 4.2.6.7 Whole number Not available 0 E5 CIRCULAR ECONOMY E5-4 Resource inflows Overall total weight of products and materials used E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 1,739 1,656 Metals E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 1,232 1,145 Resins E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 329 330 Packaging E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 108 106 Other E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 71 74 E5-5 Resource outflows Total amount of waste generated E5-5 37a 4.2.7.4.4 t 259,780 264,247 Recycled or reused non-hazardous waste E5-5 37b 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 220,771 Recycled non-hazardous waste E5-5 37bii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 204,999 Reused non-hazardous waste E5-5 37bi 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 2,449 Non-hazardous waste - other recovery operations E5-5 37biii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 13,324 Disposed of non-hazardous waste E5-5 37c 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 19,105 Landfilled non-hazardous waste E5-5 37cii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 12,803 Incinerated non-hazardous waste E5-5 37ci 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 6,302 Non-hazardous waste - other disposal operations E5-5 37ciii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 0 Total hazardous waste E5-5 39 4.2.7.4.4 t 28,249 24,371 Recycled or reused hazardous waste E5-5 37b 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 16,576 Recycled hazardous waste E5-5 37bii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 9,996 Reused hazardous waste E5-5 37bi 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 0 Hazardous waste - other recovery operations E5-5 37biii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 6,580 Disposed of hazardous waste E5-5 37c 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 7,794 Landfilled hazardous waste E5-5 37cii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 1,955 Incinerated hazardous waste E5-5 37ci 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 5,839 Hazardous waste - other disposal operations E5-5 37ciii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 0 Total non-recycled waste E5-5 37d 4.2.7.4.4 t 24,519 26,899 Percentage of non-recycled waste E5-5 37d 4.2.7.4.4 % 9% 10% Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section Unit 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 335"
"[ESRS E1 § 44] - [ESRS E1 § 46] - [ESRS E1 § 48] - [ESRS E1 § 49] - [ESRS E1 § 51] - [ESRS E1 § 52] TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2eq.) Retrospective CAP 50 Plan targets 2019 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 2025 2030 SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 195,626 186,121 164,569 -12 % Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emission trading schemes (%) 0 SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 880,687 832,768 816,042 -2 % Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 965,680 464,254 291,018 -37 % TOTAL LOCATION-BASED SCOPE 1 & 2 GHG EMISSIONS 1,076,313 1,018,889 980,610 -4 % TOTAL MARKET-BASED SCOPE 1 & 2 GHG EMISSIONS 1,161,306 650,375 455,587 -30 % 651,000 278,000 SIGNIFICANT SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS TOTAL GROSS INDIRECT (SCOPE 3) GHG EMISSIONS 52,197,768 46,698,657 40,672,513 -13 % 44,654,000 41,207,150 1) Purchased goods and services 9,179,000 7,972,051 7,573,369 -5 % 8,574,000 7,802,150 [Optional sub-category: Cloud computing and data center services] 0 0 0 2) Capital goods 2,600,853 758,820 167,420 -78 % 3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 146,166 146,970 148,709 1 % 4) Upstream transportation and distribution 151,667 317,095 300,889 -5 % 140,000 127,500 5) Waste generated in operations 32,143 28,992 27,637 -5 % 6) Business travel 27,429 43,426 40,807 -6 % 7) Employee commuting 208,843 187,757 176,688 -6 % 8) Upstream leased assets 0 0 0 9) Downstream transportation 151,667 387,587 387,903 — % 140,000 127,500 10) Processing of sold products 380,000 380,000 380,000 — % 11) Use of sold products 39,000,000 36,155,959 30,489,590 -16 % 35,800,000 33,150,000 12) End-of-life treatment of sold products 320,000 320,000 320,000 — % 13) Downstream leased assets 0 0 14) Franchises 0 0 15) Investments 0 0 659,500 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (LOCATION-BASED) 53,274,081 47,717,546 41,653,123 -13 % TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (MARKET-BASED) 53,359,074 47,349,032 41,128,099 -13 % 45,305,000 41,485,150 Percentage of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data 0% 0% The reduction in total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2024 is largely attributable to a substantial drop in emissions related to the use of the products sold (category 11), a consequence of the 2-million-unit reduction in sales of the most energy-intensive product line (variable displacement air conditioning compressors for thermal propulsion). [ESRS E1 § 53] - [ESRS E1 § 55] TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (MARKET-BASED) BY NET SALES (tCO2eq./monetary unit) GHG emissions intensity per net revenue(1) 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 Total GHG emissions (location-based) by net sales 2,165 1,938 -10 % Total GHG emissions (market-based) by net sales 2,148 1,914 -11 % (1) Total emissions including the 15 GHG Protocol categories. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 235"
"Unit 2023 2024 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity €m 22,044 21,492 Net revenue (other) €m 0 0 TOTAL NET REVENUE (FINANCIAL STATEMENTS) €m 22,044 21,492 4.2.3.10 Internal carbon pricing (DR E1-8) The Group does not apply internal carbon pricing. 4.2.3.11 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related risks and opportunities (DR E1-9) The CSRD allows companies to omit the anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related risks and opportunities prescribed by ESRS E1-9 in the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on the anticipated financial effects from climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities. Assessing the expected financial impact for assets considered to be exposed to material physical risks is a complex process. The completion of the adaptation audits in 2025 should contribute to a relevant, science-based assessment of these financial effects on the audited sites. 4.2.4 Pollution (ESRS E2) 4.2.4.1 Identification and assessment of material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E2 - POLLUTION Pollution of air Risk associated with emissions into air that may have a limited negative impact on the environment (VOCs(1), refrigerants, industrial process pollutants such as diffuse pollution, heavy metals, etc.). The financial impact on the Group of restoring the environment and facilities is estimated to be limited. Pollution of water Risk associated with emissions to water that may result in the discharge of polluting effluents, a lack of operational control over effluents, or accidental spills. The financial impact on the Group of restoring the environment and facilities is estimated to be limited. Pollution of soil Risk associated with emissions into soil that may result in hazardous waste or the discharge of polluting effluents, or a lack of effective design and control of industrial systems. The financial impact on the Group of restoring the environment and facilities is estimated to be limited. Substances of concern Risk of failing to reduce and eliminate substances of concern in products, with a potential negative impact on people and the environment. Estimates of potential fines and remediation costs are limited to date. Substances of very high concern Risk of failing to reduce and eliminate substances of very high concern in products, with a potential negative impact on people and the environment. Estimates of potential fines and remediation costs are limited to date. (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 236 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3, “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. As Valeo has not identified any affected population within the scope of its activities, the Group has not carried out stakeholder consultations with specific communities. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E2 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). 4.2.4.2 Policies related to pollution (DR E2-1) [ESRS E2-1 § 12 à 15] Some of Valeo’s activities use chemical substances that may be harmful to the environment, biodiversity and human health, and generate hazardous waste. They generate effluents that may contain such substances as oil, heavy metals or suspended solids. The risk to the Group arises from the failure to control the use of certain substances, the polluting nature of the resulting discharges and effluents, and the management of its hazardous waste. The Group must be exemplary in its management of chemical substances at each stage of their use cycle in order to avoid any risk of pollution of the natural environment. Each site must ensure, through regulatory monitoring, that its processes and the substances it uses always comply with local environmental regulations Each site must also prevent the risk of pollution resulting from an industrial accident. The main causes to be averted are: • non-compliance of discharges; • aging of internal processing equipment; • the absence of treatment stations on site or externally; • poorly managed waste treatment channels; • the tightening of regulations in force. The risk may also be aggravated by late detection of discharges into the environment due to a lack or absence of: • periodic checks of storage facilities; • periodic checks of the discharge treatment process; • intervention and control policy in respect of environmental accidents. • a firewater retention area. To prevent the risk of pollution across all sites, the Group has adopted several operational environmental directives setting rules for all sites, on the following issues: • effluents; • intervention means and consequence limitations; • the management of underground tanks; • waste management; • soil and groundwater management. All pollution risks are addressed by the Group’s environmental policy (see section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments”, page 205), which describes the standards and ISO 14001 reference framework on which it is based and includes the following subjects: Pollution of air Valeo’s activities are liable to generate emissions into air that could affect the environment and human health. Such emissions must be tightly controlled and monitored to avoid any risk of pollution. The Group aims to limit the level of risk at each site through the following measures: • maintaining an up-to-date inventory of its emissions into air; • reducing chemical emissions into air; • controlling personal exposure limits; • implementing a monitoring plan for its regulated emissions. Each site must establish a system to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements on emissions into air. In addition to complying with local regulations, the Group’s guidelines require that the best available solutions be shared across all sites. Each site establishes an inventory of its emissions as follows: • listing the sources of emissions into air, taking all of the site’s processes and activities into consideration; • listing facilities for the treatment of these emissions; • describing emissions based on their origin (emissions from combustion plants or production processes); • quantifying emissions in order to determine whether operating permits need to be obtained in accordance with applicable regulations. Each Valeo site assesses, particularly whenever any production processes are changed, potential ways of reducing atmospheric emissions of pollutants at source, focusing primarily on processes that do not require the installation of emission treatment facilities. The Group monitors atmospheric emissions related to its activities and recommends a calculation method for indicators of emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxides (NOx), refrigerant gases and heavy metals such as lead (Pb). The monitoring of emissions related to combustion (sulfur oxide (SOx), COVNM, PM10) is not applicable, as equipment mainly uses natural gas, which emits very little of these elements during combustion. Valeo applies the policy to all its plants and R&D centers. The HSE department is responsible for its implementation. To monitor the effectiveness of its policy, Valeo collects the quantities emitted each year using a reporting tool based on the sites’ declarations. These data are evaluated by internal and external audits in accordance with Group guidelines and local regulations. In addition, sites are subject to regular management system audits. This policy complements the Group’s policies and standards, local, national and international regulations, the monitoring of operating bylaws and specific air emission limitations in the plant’s operating permit. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 237"
"Pollution of water To prevent the risk of water pollution, the Group has adopted operational environmental directives setting rules for all sites, on the following issues: • water management; • effluent management; • soil and groundwater management; • waste management; These directives include the implementation of means to intervene and limit the consequences of emergencies (fire, storm, spill, etc.). They are presented to the Governance, Appointments & Corporate Social Responsibility Committee along with all environmental policy tools. Although Valeo’s industrial effluents do not contain large amounts of pollutants, the effluents directive includes the following requirements: • industrial effluents whose composition exceeds regulatory thresholds must be treated at a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) to ensure compliance with effluent regulations; • as far as possible, effluent networks should be connected to the public network; • the direct discharge of industrial effluents into groundwater is strictly prohibited; • firewater must be separated and analyzed prior to disposal; • sites’ rain-fed networks must receive only rainwater; • where rainwater runoff is collected from traffic areas, an oil separator is installed on site. Since their reclassification as “probable CMR(1)”, and in view of the risk of groundwater contamination, the Group has banned the use of degreasers based on chlorinated solvents such as trichloroethylene (TCE). In 2024, the Group updated its effluent directive, introducing more stringent requirements for discharges into the natural environment to avoid impacting biodiversity (maximum temperature, pH, heavy metal threshold, etc.). The Group also intends to work towards eliminating the discharge of industrial effluents into the natural environment, even when treated upstream in a WWTP. For several years, the Group has been continuously monitoring the list of substances of concern and very high concern with a view to eliminating the substances with the greatest impact from its processes. This policy applies to substances of concern and very high concern at all Group sites. The Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Director is responsible for its implementation. In addition, external audits are carried out every three years on average to verify the application of internal guidelines. This involves site managers, HSE teams, external auditors and independent third parties. Pollution of soil The Group has identified several risks related to pollution into soil: • production spills (e.g., oil leak under a machine) and/or uncontrolled spills (e.g., firewater); • leaks in buried pipes and/or underground tanks (prohibited since 2012); To prevent the risk of soil pollution, the Group has adopted operational environmental directives setting rules for all sites, on the following issues: • underground tanks; • effluents; • soil and groundwater management; • waste management. These directives include the definition of means to intervene and limit the consequences of emergencies. They are submitted to the Governance, Appointments & Corporate Social Responsibility Committee along with all environmental policy tools. Valeo is committed to the fight against soil pollution caused by waste (fly-tipping and landfilling) through the management of all its waste by recognized players in the field. This topic is covered in the Waste Policy (see section 4.2.7.4 “Waste”, page 257). As part of their environmental management system and in accordance with the Group’s guidelines, the sites undertake to implement prevention measures, from the feasibility study to the shutdown of business. Prior to the purchase or lease of land or buildings, an assessment of the risk of legacy soil and groundwater pollution is performed to ensure that the nature and quality of the soil comply with local regulations. This approach avoids the risk of acquiring previously contaminated land. Similarly, when a business is sold or shut down, the Group commissions an audit, generally accompanied by an examination of the soil, to determine whether any pollution occurred during its operational phase. If pollution is discovered, the necessary measures are taken. Throughout the operational phase, the Group ensures compliance with the ISO 14001 certification processes for operational and emergency management, with alerts reported in the Red Alert Environment tool, which provides information up to and including general management, depending on the level of severity. This particularly involves site managers and internal HSE teams, as well as external auditors and control bodies. Substances of concern and very high concern Management of substances of concern and very high concern within the Group is divided into two parts: i. substances as such and mixtures containing substances of concern (SoC) or substances of very high concern (SVHC) (inputs), used and transformed by industrial processes, as well as those intended for the use and maintenance of industrial tooling; ii. items containing substances of concern and substances of very high concern, assembled into complex items (inputs and outputs). For input substances and mixtures, identification is carried out in accordance with REACH regulations. Valeo has established its own BRDS (Banned, Restricted and Declarable Substances) list, which includes substances covered by: • regulations; • special requirements of its automaker customers; • its own strategy. This list is regularly updated, notably thanks to the regulatory monitoring of Article 57 of the REACH regulation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 238 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341."
"It serves as a reference to provide initial screening whenever use of a new product (substance or mixture) is being considered, based on the relevant CAS(1) registry number, The Group applies internal Chemical Product Management guidelines, including a sub-policy for regulated or banned substances, which requires REACH and BRDS compliance to be verified. For complex input and output items, compliance is verified through IMDS (International Material Data System), which is an international system for collecting material data from the automotive industry in the context of End-of-Life Vehicle regulations.) This policy applies throughout the Group. It involves employees, service providers, suppliers, customers and authorities. The Deputy Chief Executive Officer delegates responsibility for its industrial application to the Health, Safety and Environment Director and the Chief Technology Officer, under the coordination of the Vice-President, External Affairs and Sustainable Development. The Group identifies cases of use of substances of concern (SoC) and substances of very high concern (SVHC): i. aims to eliminate substances and mixtures containing them from its processes whenever technically possible and economically viable alternatives are available, or otherwise to control their use from the supply chain to destruction; ii. aims to eliminate them from the composition of goods purchased and placed on the market, whenever technically possible and economically viable alternatives are available. In 2024, monitoring was carried out: i. for input substances and mixtures: consolidation of CMR 1A and 1B substances, without distinguishing between risk families, using the environmental reporting tool; ii. for input and output items: breakdown of the presence of SVHC in the articles via IMDS reporting. The policy’s effectiveness is monitored as follows: i. For substances used in industrial processes: The Group plans to launch a new campaign of specific chemical risk audits by a third-party expert to ensure compliance with its internal guidelines and control the use of substances containing SoCs and SVHCs in its processes. ii. For substances intended for use in products placed on the market: All substances constituting the materials used to manufacture Valeo products are identified in the IMDS. This database receives input from each actor in the supply chain. The Group has set the following objectives to measure the effectiveness of the policy: • improvement of reporting to distinguish SoCs and SVHCs in terms of risk family; • continued implementation of the internal Chemical Products Management directive; • update of the BRDS list at least once a year. 4.2.4.3 Actions and resources related to pollution (DR E2-2) [ESRS E2 § 19] Pollution of air As part of its air pollution control policy, Valeo took the following key actions in 2024 at all plants and R&D centers to prevent and/or reduce pollution risks: • volatile organic compounds (VOCs): improvement of reporting processes through systematic consideration of inputs through the production management system. Valeo is committed to reducing VOCs through the use of purification systems, such as dry filters or chemical processes. Incineration is no longer preferred, in order to reduce CO2 emissions; • refrigerants: improvement of data reliability; • lead emissions: Valeo continues its work to eradicate lead. Today, the use of lead is limited to soldering flux in end-of-life products. To reduce inputs (avoidance), this type of welding is no longer authorized for new projects. Valeo has observed the following results of these actions: • emissions of combustion pollutants: based on the list defined in Annex II of the IEPR, only nitrogen dioxide (NOx) exceeds reporting thresholds. Other pollutants have also been quantified and are below the relevant thresholds. In the short term, the following actions are planned for all industrial sites and R&D centers: • VOCs: • installation of purification systems that go beyond the requirements of national and local regulations. The Group aims to make VOC-free products the norm where this is compatible with achieving quality objectives; • improvement of calculation methodologies; • refrigerants: • in 2025, the Group intends to change the method used to calculate its refrigerant emissions in order to reflect actual GHG emissions by moving from estimates to physical data (declaration of refrigerant charge volumes); • quantification of investments required to replace the most polluting gases and their implementation; • combustion: • identification of investments in line with the CAP 50 plan to move away from fossil fuel-based energy sources or towards less polluting fuels (e.g., substituting of heavy oil with natural gas). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 239 (1) Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS)."
"Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3, “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. As Valeo has not identified any affected population within the scope of its activities, the Group has not carried out stakeholder consultations with specific communities. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E2 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). 4.2.4.2 Policies related to pollution (DR E2-1) [ESRS E2-1 § 12 à 15] Some of Valeo’s activities use chemical substances that may be harmful to the environment, biodiversity and human health, and generate hazardous waste. They generate effluents that may contain such substances as oil, heavy metals or suspended solids. The risk to the Group arises from the failure to control the use of certain substances, the polluting nature of the resulting discharges and effluents, and the management of its hazardous waste. The Group must be exemplary in its management of chemical substances at each stage of their use cycle in order to avoid any risk of pollution of the natural environment. Each site must ensure, through regulatory monitoring, that its processes and the substances it uses always comply with local environmental regulations Each site must also prevent the risk of pollution resulting from an industrial accident. The main causes to be averted are: • non-compliance of discharges; • aging of internal processing equipment; • the absence of treatment stations on site or externally; • poorly managed waste treatment channels; • the tightening of regulations in force. The risk may also be aggravated by late detection of discharges into the environment due to a lack or absence of: • periodic checks of storage facilities; • periodic checks of the discharge treatment process; • intervention and control policy in respect of environmental accidents. • a firewater retention area. To prevent the risk of pollution across all sites, the Group has adopted several operational environmental directives setting rules for all sites, on the following issues: • effluents; • intervention means and consequence limitations; • the management of underground tanks; • waste management; • soil and groundwater management. All pollution risks are addressed by the Group’s environmental policy (see section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments”, page 205), which describes the standards and ISO 14001 reference framework on which it is based and includes the following subjects: Pollution of air Valeo’s activities are liable to generate emissions into air that could affect the environment and human health. Such emissions must be tightly controlled and monitored to avoid any risk of pollution. The Group aims to limit the level of risk at each site through the following measures: • maintaining an up-to-date inventory of its emissions into air; • reducing chemical emissions into air; • controlling personal exposure limits; • implementing a monitoring plan for its regulated emissions. Each site must establish a system to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements on emissions into air. In addition to complying with local regulations, the Group’s guidelines require that the best available solutions be shared across all sites. Each site establishes an inventory of its emissions as follows: • listing the sources of emissions into air, taking all of the site’s processes and activities into consideration; • listing facilities for the treatment of these emissions; • describing emissions based on their origin (emissions from combustion plants or production processes); • quantifying emissions in order to determine whether operating permits need to be obtained in accordance with applicable regulations. Each Valeo site assesses, particularly whenever any production processes are changed, potential ways of reducing atmospheric emissions of pollutants at source, focusing primarily on processes that do not require the installation of emission treatment facilities. The Group monitors atmospheric emissions related to its activities and recommends a calculation method for indicators of emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxides (NOx), refrigerant gases and heavy metals such as lead (Pb). The monitoring of emissions related to combustion (sulfur oxide (SOx), COVNM, PM10) is not applicable, as equipment mainly uses natural gas, which emits very little of these elements during combustion. Valeo applies the policy to all its plants and R&D centers. The HSE department is responsible for its implementation. To monitor the effectiveness of its policy, Valeo collects the quantities emitted each year using a reporting tool based on the sites’ declarations. These data are evaluated by internal and external audits in accordance with Group guidelines and local regulations. In addition, sites are subject to regular management system audits. This policy complements the Group’s policies and standards, local, national and international regulations, the monitoring of operating bylaws and specific air emission limitations in the plant’s operating permit. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 237"
"Pollution of water To prevent the risk of water pollution, the Group has adopted operational environmental directives setting rules for all sites, on the following issues: • water management; • effluent management; • soil and groundwater management; • waste management; These directives include the implementation of means to intervene and limit the consequences of emergencies (fire, storm, spill, etc.). They are presented to the Governance, Appointments & Corporate Social Responsibility Committee along with all environmental policy tools. Although Valeo’s industrial effluents do not contain large amounts of pollutants, the effluents directive includes the following requirements: • industrial effluents whose composition exceeds regulatory thresholds must be treated at a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) to ensure compliance with effluent regulations; • as far as possible, effluent networks should be connected to the public network; • the direct discharge of industrial effluents into groundwater is strictly prohibited; • firewater must be separated and analyzed prior to disposal; • sites’ rain-fed networks must receive only rainwater; • where rainwater runoff is collected from traffic areas, an oil separator is installed on site. Since their reclassification as “probable CMR(1)”, and in view of the risk of groundwater contamination, the Group has banned the use of degreasers based on chlorinated solvents such as trichloroethylene (TCE). In 2024, the Group updated its effluent directive, introducing more stringent requirements for discharges into the natural environment to avoid impacting biodiversity (maximum temperature, pH, heavy metal threshold, etc.). The Group also intends to work towards eliminating the discharge of industrial effluents into the natural environment, even when treated upstream in a WWTP. For several years, the Group has been continuously monitoring the list of substances of concern and very high concern with a view to eliminating the substances with the greatest impact from its processes. This policy applies to substances of concern and very high concern at all Group sites. The Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Director is responsible for its implementation. In addition, external audits are carried out every three years on average to verify the application of internal guidelines. This involves site managers, HSE teams, external auditors and independent third parties. Pollution of soil The Group has identified several risks related to pollution into soil: • production spills (e.g., oil leak under a machine) and/or uncontrolled spills (e.g., firewater); • leaks in buried pipes and/or underground tanks (prohibited since 2012); To prevent the risk of soil pollution, the Group has adopted operational environmental directives setting rules for all sites, on the following issues: • underground tanks; • effluents; • soil and groundwater management; • waste management. These directives include the definition of means to intervene and limit the consequences of emergencies. They are submitted to the Governance, Appointments & Corporate Social Responsibility Committee along with all environmental policy tools. Valeo is committed to the fight against soil pollution caused by waste (fly-tipping and landfilling) through the management of all its waste by recognized players in the field. This topic is covered in the Waste Policy (see section 4.2.7.4 “Waste”, page 257). As part of their environmental management system and in accordance with the Group’s guidelines, the sites undertake to implement prevention measures, from the feasibility study to the shutdown of business. Prior to the purchase or lease of land or buildings, an assessment of the risk of legacy soil and groundwater pollution is performed to ensure that the nature and quality of the soil comply with local regulations. This approach avoids the risk of acquiring previously contaminated land. Similarly, when a business is sold or shut down, the Group commissions an audit, generally accompanied by an examination of the soil, to determine whether any pollution occurred during its operational phase. If pollution is discovered, the necessary measures are taken. Throughout the operational phase, the Group ensures compliance with the ISO 14001 certification processes for operational and emergency management, with alerts reported in the Red Alert Environment tool, which provides information up to and including general management, depending on the level of severity. This particularly involves site managers and internal HSE teams, as well as external auditors and control bodies. Substances of concern and very high concern Management of substances of concern and very high concern within the Group is divided into two parts: i. substances as such and mixtures containing substances of concern (SoC) or substances of very high concern (SVHC) (inputs), used and transformed by industrial processes, as well as those intended for the use and maintenance of industrial tooling; ii. items containing substances of concern and substances of very high concern, assembled into complex items (inputs and outputs). For input substances and mixtures, identification is carried out in accordance with REACH regulations. Valeo has established its own BRDS (Banned, Restricted and Declarable Substances) list, which includes substances covered by: • regulations; • special requirements of its automaker customers; • its own strategy. This list is regularly updated, notably thanks to the regulatory monitoring of Article 57 of the REACH regulation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 238 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341."
"It serves as a reference to provide initial screening whenever use of a new product (substance or mixture) is being considered, based on the relevant CAS(1) registry number, The Group applies internal Chemical Product Management guidelines, including a sub-policy for regulated or banned substances, which requires REACH and BRDS compliance to be verified. For complex input and output items, compliance is verified through IMDS (International Material Data System), which is an international system for collecting material data from the automotive industry in the context of End-of-Life Vehicle regulations.) This policy applies throughout the Group. It involves employees, service providers, suppliers, customers and authorities. The Deputy Chief Executive Officer delegates responsibility for its industrial application to the Health, Safety and Environment Director and the Chief Technology Officer, under the coordination of the Vice-President, External Affairs and Sustainable Development. The Group identifies cases of use of substances of concern (SoC) and substances of very high concern (SVHC): i. aims to eliminate substances and mixtures containing them from its processes whenever technically possible and economically viable alternatives are available, or otherwise to control their use from the supply chain to destruction; ii. aims to eliminate them from the composition of goods purchased and placed on the market, whenever technically possible and economically viable alternatives are available. In 2024, monitoring was carried out: i. for input substances and mixtures: consolidation of CMR 1A and 1B substances, without distinguishing between risk families, using the environmental reporting tool; ii. for input and output items: breakdown of the presence of SVHC in the articles via IMDS reporting. The policy’s effectiveness is monitored as follows: i. For substances used in industrial processes: The Group plans to launch a new campaign of specific chemical risk audits by a third-party expert to ensure compliance with its internal guidelines and control the use of substances containing SoCs and SVHCs in its processes. ii. For substances intended for use in products placed on the market: All substances constituting the materials used to manufacture Valeo products are identified in the IMDS. This database receives input from each actor in the supply chain. The Group has set the following objectives to measure the effectiveness of the policy: • improvement of reporting to distinguish SoCs and SVHCs in terms of risk family; • continued implementation of the internal Chemical Products Management directive; • update of the BRDS list at least once a year. 4.2.4.3 Actions and resources related to pollution (DR E2-2) [ESRS E2 § 19] Pollution of air As part of its air pollution control policy, Valeo took the following key actions in 2024 at all plants and R&D centers to prevent and/or reduce pollution risks: • volatile organic compounds (VOCs): improvement of reporting processes through systematic consideration of inputs through the production management system. Valeo is committed to reducing VOCs through the use of purification systems, such as dry filters or chemical processes. Incineration is no longer preferred, in order to reduce CO2 emissions; • refrigerants: improvement of data reliability; • lead emissions: Valeo continues its work to eradicate lead. Today, the use of lead is limited to soldering flux in end-of-life products. To reduce inputs (avoidance), this type of welding is no longer authorized for new projects. Valeo has observed the following results of these actions: • emissions of combustion pollutants: based on the list defined in Annex II of the IEPR, only nitrogen dioxide (NOx) exceeds reporting thresholds. Other pollutants have also been quantified and are below the relevant thresholds. In the short term, the following actions are planned for all industrial sites and R&D centers: • VOCs: • installation of purification systems that go beyond the requirements of national and local regulations. The Group aims to make VOC-free products the norm where this is compatible with achieving quality objectives; • improvement of calculation methodologies; • refrigerants: • in 2025, the Group intends to change the method used to calculate its refrigerant emissions in order to reflect actual GHG emissions by moving from estimates to physical data (declaration of refrigerant charge volumes); • quantification of investments required to replace the most polluting gases and their implementation; • combustion: • identification of investments in line with the CAP 50 plan to move away from fossil fuel-based energy sources or towards less polluting fuels (e.g., substituting of heavy oil with natural gas). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 239 (1) Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS)."
"Pollution of water As part of its water pollution control policy, Valeo took the following key actions in 2024 at all plants and R&D centers to prevent and/or reduce pollution risks: • organization of webinars to share best practices for internal water treatment by filtration and evaporation to reduce liquid waste and ensure water reuse and reduction of water consumption; • launch of an awareness campaign and assessment on the risks related to PFAS(1); • organization of a webinar to raise awareness among teams of the consequences of operating an aging water treatment station; • organization of a webinar to raise awareness among teams of the need to control firewater in the event of accidental pollution, achievement of regulatory compliance by establishing firewater retention zones (underground tanks, temporary basins, etc.). Following the webinars, awareness campaigns and implementation of wastewater treatment projects conducted in 2024, Valeo continues to prevent accidental pollution by assessing the following items: • compliance with firewater retention regulations; • disrepair of water treatment stations; • equipment and measurement methods; • audits to prevent the loss of plastic granules at the sites concerned; Valeo will then refurbish aging water treatment stations and implement continuous measurements at all treatment stations to better monitor compliance. In addition, the Group has extended the monitoring of metal releases in wastewater to copper, cobalt, manganese, nickel and zinc. Since 2022, 100% of the sites concerned have reported their concentration. Valeo has implemented a directive governing post-treatment discharges into the natural environment to ensure compliance with maximum limits by 2025, regardless of local requirements. Pollution of soil As part of its soil pollution control policy, Valeo took the following key actions in 2024 at all plants and R&D centers to prevent and/or reduce pollution risks: • pollution risk assessment: prior to the purchase, lease or sale of land or buildings, an assessment of the risk of legacy soil and groundwater pollution is performed. • safe loading and unloading: Valeo has adopted specific procedures to prevent accidental spills during the loading and unloading of tankers; • safe product storage: Valeo has laid down strict rules for designing and building retention systems to prevent accidental spills; • chemical product management audits: since 2020, external audits have been carried out on chemical product management and waste treatment; • ban on underground tanks: to eliminate the risk of soil pollution, underground tanks have been banned since the 1990s; • incident management: guidelines are in place to prevent, detect and limit the consequences of emergencies that could negatively impact human health or the environment. Valeo’s waste management strategy also helps to control the soil pollution (see section 4.2.7.4 “Waste”, page 257). The Group carried out seven environmental due diligence audits, in some cases including soil surveys to verify the absence of contamination. Valeo is continuing its efforts in the area of operational control with a view to continuous improvement in order to achieve its objective of zero net pollution. Substances of concern and very high concern As part of the implementation of its policy for the control of substances of concern and very high concern, Valeo took the following key actions in 2024 at all plants and R&D centers to prevent and/or reduce pollution risks: • update of the BRDS list (16th version); • continued monitoring of the increasing use of nanomaterials in response to REACH regulations, to anticipate any necessary substitution; • continued active participation in the work of professional organizations in Europe and internationally. The Group plans on implementing the following actions: i. for substances used in industrial processes: • develop or acquire a tool to improve the traceability of substances or mixtures containing substances of concern and substances of very high concern, and to facilitate their substitution and/or elimination; ii. for substances intended for use in products placed on the market: • integrate PFAS requirements into the BRDS list. With a view to continuous improvement, by 2030 the Group plans to: i. for substances used in industrial processes: • add risk families to the BRDS list; • establish a Group-wide consumption monitoring process, including means for cross-checking or identifying substances between purchasing and HSE tools; • establish a process to consolidate consumption by risk family for substances and mixtures containing substances of concern and substances of very high concern; • update internal guidelines to include the consumption monitoring process; • prioritize substances for voluntary bans or reduction targets; SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 240 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341."
"ii. for substances intended for use in products placed on the market: • ensure the progressive updating of lists of SoCs identified in the BRDS list and bringing them in line with Article 57(f) of REACH, based on regulatory updates and their progressive identification. The Group aims to achieve the following outcomes: i. for substances used in industrial processes: • substitution and/or total elimination of substances of very high concern from products; • traceability of product volumes consumed in terms of risk family. ii. for substances intended for use in products placed on the market: • identification of PFAS alternatives. To this end, the Group has incurred the following expenses and made the following investments: • expenses: provision of sites with solutions to identify, trace and consolidate quantities of substances and mixtures containing substances of concern and substances of very high concern; • investments: adaptations to production lines resulting from the substitution of a hazardous product with a less harmful alternative. 4.2.4.4 Targets related to pollution (DR E2-3) [ESRS E2 § 22] - [ESRS E2 § 23] - [ESRS E2 § 24] The ecological thresholds applied are defined by local regulations, to which the Group’s internal requirements are added to harmonize the level of requirements across all sites, particularly for emissions into the natural environment, whether emissions into air or water. With regard to soil pollution, the Group pursues a strategy of avoidance through the use of prevention and retention measures. There are four types of wastewater: sanitary water, rainwater, industrial water and firewater. Sanitary water is discharged into municipal sewer systems where they exist, or is treated on site before spreading on land. Rainwater is discharged directly into the sewer system or is sent through an oil separator for water used to clean traffic areas. To meet regulatory requirements, sites may be equipped with on-site stations prior to the discharge of their effluent into the public network. Firewater must be contained on site to prevent contamination of the rainwater network. In terms of operational control, the Group has set itself the goal of achieving ISO 14001 certification for 100% of its sites by 2025. Pollution of air The Group has set itself the following objectives: • elimination of chlorinated solvents and lead; • maintenance of emissions into air of heavy metals below local regulatory thresholds; • maintenance of combustion-related pollutants (CH4, CO2, SOx, PM10) at low levels that do not require reporting under E-PRTR legislation; • further reduction of NOx through the use of alternative fuels; Pollution of water To avoid the risk of groundwater contamination, the Group has begun an inventory of groundwater withdrawals and associated anti-backflow systems (atmospheric breakers, non-return valves). The Group has set itself three objectives for 2025: • closure of boreholes where a public network exists; • restriction of existing wells to domestic use where public network water is not potable; • securing and evaluation of protection systems. Pollution of soil The Group has set itself a target of zero net pollution, including zero fly-tipping, and has called on recognized players to process and ensure the traceability of its waste. The aim is to ensure that 100% of waste is declared in a waste register. Since 2019, all accidental spills have been reported in the Red Alert Environment tool, with the aim of preventing any residual pollution. Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Valeo has set the following targets for substances of concern and substances of very high concern: i. For substances and mixtures: • no per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS(1)) on any Valeo site; • no prohibited substances listed in the BRDS; • no CMR 1A substances where quality compliance is achieved; • 100% of SoCs and SVHCs managed in compliance with the internal Chemical Product Management guidelines. ii. For the articles: • 100% of SoCs and SVHCs identified and reported for products listed in the IMDS. SUBSTANCES Substances Reference value Base year Target value (kg/€m) Target year PFAS To be determined(1) 2025 To be determined(1) 2030 Substances listed in the BRDS 2025 2030 SVHC 2025 2030 SoC 2025 2030 CMR 1A/1B 2025 2030 (1) The baseline will be defined on the basis of the first data collected in 2025. These measures will allow quantified targets to be set for 2030. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 241 (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341."
"4.5 Appendices Appendix 1 – Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56) ESRS 2 BP-1 General basis for preparation of the sustainability statements 4.1.1.1 4.1.1.2 187 ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 4.1.1.3 190 ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-1 21 (d) The Board's gender diversity x x 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-2 Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking's administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-2 21 (e) Percentage of independent board members x 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.1.2.3 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 30 Statement on due diligence x 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting 4.1.2.5 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain 4.1.3.1 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) i Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities x x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) ii Involvement in activities related to chemical production x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iii Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iv Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.1.3.2 195 ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.1.3.3 200 ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.4.1 201 ESRS 2 IRO-2 Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 4.1.4.2 203 ESRS 2 GOV-3 E1 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.2.3.1 217 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 298 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 14 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 x 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 16 (g) Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned benchmarks x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-3 E1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.3.2 218 ESRS 2 IRO-1 E1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.3 219 ESRS E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.5 227 ESRS E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 4.2.3.6 228 ESRS E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.7 229 ESRS E1-4 34 GHG emission reduction targets x x x 4.2.3.7 230 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 38 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 37 Energy consumption and mix x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 40-43 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors x 4.2.3.8 234 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 234 ESRS E1-6 44 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions x x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-6 53-55 Gross GHG emissions intensity x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-7 GHG absorption and mitigation projects financed through carbon credits Not applicable ESRS E1-7 56 GHG removals and carbon credits x Not applicable ESRS E1-8 Internal carbon pricing 4.2.3.10 236 ESRS E1-9 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 66 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks x 4.2.3.11 236 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 299"
"ESRS E1-9 66 (a); 66 (c) Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk Location of significant assets at material physical risk x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 67 (c) Breakdown of the carrying value of the undertaking's real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 69 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate-related opportunities x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS IRO-1 E2 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.1 236 ESRS E2-1 Policies related to pollution 4.2.4.2 237 ESRS E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 239 ESRS E2-3 Targets related to pollution 4.2.4.4 241 ESRS E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-4 28 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil x 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 4.2.4.6 243 ESRS E2-6 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.7 244 ESRS IRO-1 E3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 244 ESRS E3-1 Policies related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 9 Water and marine resources x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 13 Dedicated policy x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 14 Sustainable oceans and seas x Not applicable ESRS E3-2 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 246 ESRS E3-3 Targets related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.4 247 ESRS E3-4 Number of accidents with lost time 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 28 (c) Total percentage of water recycled and reused x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 29 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-5 Anticipated financial effects from water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.6 248 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 300 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 4.2.6.1 248 ESRS 2-SBM-3 E4 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (a) i Activities negatively affecting biodiversity-sensitive areas x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (b) Breakdown of sites according to impacts and dependencies x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (c) Biodiversity-sensitive areas affected x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS IRO-1 E4 Description of the processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.3 249 ESRS E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-2 24 (b) Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (c) Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (d) Policy to prevent deforestation x 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 250 ESRS E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.6 251 ESRS E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 4.2.6.7 251 ESRS E4-6 Anticipated financial effects from biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.8 251 ESRS IRO-1 E5 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.1 252 ESRS E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.1 4.2.7.3.1 4.2.7.4.1 252 ESRS E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 4.2.7.3.2 4.2.7.4.2 253 ESRS E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.3 4.2.7.3.3 4.2.7.4.3 254 ESRS E5-4 Resource inflows 4.2.7.3.4 256 ESRS E5-5 Resource outflows 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 37 (d) Non-recycled waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 39 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 301"
"ESRS E5-6 Anticipated financial effects from resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.5 259 ESRS 2 SBM-2 S1 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.3.1.1 261 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.3.1.2 261 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 14 (f) Forced labor risk x 4.3.1.2 262 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 14 (g) Child labor risk x 4.3.1.2 262 ESRS S1-1 Policies related to own workforce 4.3.1.3 263 ESRS S1-1 20 Human rights policy commitments x 4.3.1.3 263 ESRS S1-1 21 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions 1 to 8 x 4.3.1.3 267 ESRS S1-1 22 Processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings x 4.3.1.3 268 ESRS S1-1 23 Workplace accident prevention policy or management system x 4.3.1.3 266 ESRS S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers' representatives about impacts 4.3.1.4 268 ESRS S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 4.3.1.5 269 ESRS S1-3 32 (c) Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms x 4.3.1.5 270 ESRS S1-4 Taking action on material impacts, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions and approaches 4.3.1.6 270 ESRS S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 4.3.1.7 276 ESRS S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 4.3.1.8 278 ESRS S1-7 Characteristics of non-employee workers in the undertaking's own workforce 4.3.1.9 279 ESRS S1-8 Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 4.3.1.10 279 ESRS S1-9 Diversity metrics 4.3.1.11 280 ESRS S1-10 Adequate wages 4.3.1.12 280 ESRS S1-11 Social protection 4.3.1.13 280 ESRS S1-12 Persons with disabilities 4.3.1.14 280 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 302 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Appendix 3 – Table of information incorporated by reference DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.7 ""Sustainability auditor’s report"" Page 342 DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.1.2.4 “Statement on due diligence” Page 194 DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy” Page 206 ESRS 2 § 3 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 3 “Scope of consolidation” to the consolidated financial statements Page 365 ESRS 2 § 3 - 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.1.1.2.1 “Reporting of environmental data” paragraph “Changes in scope” Page 189 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.2 “Environmental information” Page 205 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.3 “Social information” Page 260 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.4 “Governance information – Business conduct” Page 290 ESRS 2 § 10 4.1.1.3.2 Page 190 Section 4.1.1.3.3 “Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty” Page 190 ESRS 2 § 11 4.1.1.3.3 Page 190 Section 4.1.1.2.1 “Reporting of environmental data” Page 189 ESRS 2 § 15 4.1.1.3.5 Page 190 Appendix 1 “Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 16)” Page 298 ESRS 2 § 16 4.1.1.3.6 Page 190 Appendix 3 “Table of information incorporated by reference” Page 308 ESRS 2 § 21 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2 “Composition of the Board of Directors, and preparation and organization of its work” Page 103 ESRS 2 § 21 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.1 ""Executive bodies"" Page 102 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work” Page 133 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work” Page 133 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.1 ""Executive bodies"" Page 102 ESRS 2 § 23 4.1.2.1 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors”, paragraph “Presentation of directors for the 2024 financial year” Page 104 ESRS 2 § 23 4.1.2.1 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Directors' training” Page 135 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Role of the Board of Directors” Page 136 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Committee activity during the year” Page 140 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Committee activity during the year” Page 140 ESRS 2 § 29 4.1.2.3 Page 194 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.3.1 ""Compensation of corporate officers"", paragraph ""Overview of the compensation policies for the corporate officers in respect of the 2024 financial year"", section 3.3.2 ""Compensation of corporate officers in respect of the 2024 financial year"", and section 3.3.3 ""Overall compensation of other Group senior executives"" Page 152 ESRS 2 § 30 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Appendix 2 – Mapping of information provided on the due diligence process Page 306 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Chapter 2 ""Risks and Risk Management"", and section 4.1.4 ""Impact, risk and opportunity management"" Pages 81 and 201 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph ""Other work-related rights"" Page 267 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Health and safety” Page 266 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 308 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.2.4 “Pollution” Page 236 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Appendix 2 – Mapping of information provided on the due diligence process Page 306 ESRS 2 § 36 4.1.2.5 Page 195 Chapter 2 ""Risks and Risk Management"", section 2.3 ""Internal control and risk management"" Page 93 ESRS 2 § 36 4.1.2.5 Page 195 Section 4.7 ""Report on the certification of Sustainability and Taxonomy information” Page 342 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Chapter 1, section 1.4 ""Operational organization"" Page 55 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Management report “Group positioning” Page 42 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, paragraph “Value chain and dependency analysis” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.3 “Strategy and business model” Page 195 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.4 “Impact, risk and opportunity management” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.3 “Strategy and business model” Page 195 ESRS 2 § 49 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 53 4.1.4.1 Page 201 Section 2.1 “Risk factors” Page 82 ESRS 2 § 56 4.1.4.2 Page 203 Appendix 1 “Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56)” Page 298 ESRS 2 § 59 4.1.4.2 Page 203 Chapter 4 “Sustainability Report”, section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify material sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities”, paragraph “Methodology and assessment process” Page 201 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.3 Page 203 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 14 ""List of consolidated companies"" Page 423 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.3 Page 208 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, section 4.2.3.6 “Climate-related actions and resources”, section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”) Pages 223, 228, 229, 234 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 209 Note 5.1 ""Sales"" to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Page 371 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 209 Notes 7.2 ""Other intangible assets"" and 7.3 ""Property, plant and equipment"" to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Pages 389 to 393 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Note 7.2 ""Other intangible assets"" to the consolidated financial statements, presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Page 389 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Section 4.2.3 “Climate strategy” Page 217 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments” Page 205 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 211 Section 4.2.6.4 “Policies related to biodiversity” Page 250 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.6 Page 216 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Financing” Page 223 ESRS E1 4.2.3 Page 217 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation” Page 223 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 309"
"ESRS E1 § 13 4.2.3.1 Page 217 Section 4.1.2.3 “Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes” Page 194 ESRS E1 § 19 4.2.3.2 Page 218 Appendix 4 – GRI – SASB – TCFD cross-reference tables Page 315 ESRS E1 § 19 4.2.3.2 Page 218 Section 4.2.3.3.1 ""Analysis of physical and transition risks"" Section 4.2.3.3.2 ""Adaptation of strategy and business model"" Pages 219, 222 ESRS E1 § 20 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E1 § 21 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E1 § 21 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Sections 4.2.3.2 ""Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model"", and 4.1.3.3 ""Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model"" Pages 218, 200 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks” Page 219 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Investments and funding to support the implementation of the transition plan"" Page 223 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 7.4.6 “Sensitivity of impairment tests to the impacts of climate change” Page 397 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 224 Section 4.2.3.6 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies” Page 228 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6 “Notes to the consolidated financial statements”, Notes 1.3.6 “Financing” and 9.1.2.1 “Long-term debt” Pages 364, 402 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.2.2.5 “Taxonomy KPI tables” Page 212 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.1.2 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives” Page 191 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.2.3.8 “Energy consumption” and section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050” Pages 233, 234 ESRS E1 § 29 4.2.3.6 Page 229 Section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy” Page 206 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 231 Section 4.2.3.9 ""Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050” Page 234 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 232 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation” Page 223 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 232 Section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks” Page 219 ESRS E1 § 47 4.2.3.9 Page 234 Section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030” Page 229 ESRS E1 § 50 4.2.3.9 Page 234 Section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030” Page 229 ESRS E2/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.4.1 Page 237 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E2/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.4.1 Page 237 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E2-1 § 12 to 15 4.2.4.2 Page 237 Section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments” Page 205 ESRS E2-1 § 12 to 15 4.2.4.2 Page 238 Section 4.2.7.4 “Waste” Page 257 ESRS E2 § 19 4.2.4.3 Page 240 Section 4.2.7.4 “Waste” Page 257 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 310 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.2.3.3.1 ""Analysis of physical and transition risks"", paragraph “Physical risks - Analysis methodology"" Page 219 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 16 4.2.6.2 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 17 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E4 § 17 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E4 § 19 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 19 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 249 ESRS E4 § 23 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 24 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 24 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 35 4.2.6.7 Page 251 Section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 249 ESRS E5 § 11 4.2.7.1 Page 252 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E5 § 11 4.2.7.1 Page 252 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E5 § 14 - 15 4.2.7.2.1 Page 253 Section 4.2.5 ""Water resources"" and section 4.2.7.4 ""Waste"" Pages 244,257 ESRS E5 § 35 4.2.7.2.4 Page 255 Section 4.2.7.2.2 “Actions and resources related to circular economy” Page 253 ESRS E5 § 16 4.2.7.4.1 Page 257 Section 4.2.7.2.1 “Policies related to circular economy – 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 16 4.2.7.4.2 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.2 “Circular economy: 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 23 - 24 4.2.7.4.3 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.2 “Circular economy: 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 23-24 4.2.7.4.3 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.3 “Resource inflows” Page 256 ESRS E5-6 4.2.7.5 Page 259 Section 4.2.2.2 “Summary of KPIs” Page 206 ESRS S1 4 Page 260 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 12 4.3.1.1 Page 261 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 262 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 262 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.3 “The Group’s employee policy” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.6 “Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 262 Section 4.3.1.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 261 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 262 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 265 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 266 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 311"
"ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Diversity” Page 266 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Diversity” Page 266 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.1.2.4 “Statement on due diligence” Page 194 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 268 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 268 Section 4.3.1.3 “Freedom of association, the existence of works councils and the information, consultation and participation rights of workers” Page 265 ESRS S1 § 32 4.3.1.5 Page 269 Sections 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"" and 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"" in the following paragraphs ""Secure employment"", ""Working time"", ""Adequate wages"", ""Health and safety"", ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"", ""Employment and inclusion of people with disabilities"", ""Diversity, equity, inclusion"", ""Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace"", ""Training and skills development"" Pages 263, 270 ESRS S1 § 35 - 37 - 38 - 39 - 40 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Sections 4.3.1.1 ""Strong employee relations"" and 4.3.1.4 ""Commitments related to Valeo's own workforce"" Pages 261, 268 ESRS S1 § 41 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, and 4.3.3.4 “Impacts related to consumer and/or end-user safety” Pages 263, 288 ESRS S1 § 42 - 43 - 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Chapter 1, section 1.6.9 “Human Resources” Page 79 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Employee Engagement (EE) roadmaps"" Page 263 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Training and skills development"" Page 275 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.4 “Commitments related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 268 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.12 ""Adequate wages"" Page 280 ESRS S1 § 43 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 43 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Social dialogue"" Page 271 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 272 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Work-life balance"" Page 271 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 272 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Health and safety”, page XXX); Page 266 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Chapter 3, section 3.3.1 “Compensation policies for corporate officers”, paragraph “Overview of the compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer in respect of the 2024 financial year” Page 152 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Employment and inclusion of people with disabilities"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 274 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Diversity, Equity, Inclusion"" Page 273 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Diversity, Equity, Inclusion"" Page 273 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.6 “Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace” Page 275 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 312 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"2-7 a Employees ESRS 2 SBM-1 40aiii AR12- AR13 Total number of employees (head count) 4.1.3.1 ESRS S1-6 50a Characteristics of undertaking's employees - number of employees in countries with 50 or more employees representing at least 10% of total number of employees [table] 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50a AR57 Number of employees in countries with 50 or more employees representing at least 10% of total number of employees 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 Average number of employees in countries with 50 or more employees representing at least 10% of total number of employees 4.3.1.8 2-7 b-i to iii Employees ESRS S1-6 50b Characteristics of undertaking's employees - information on employees by contract type and gender [table] 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50b-51 Number of employees (head count or full-time equivalent) 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 Average number of employees (head count or full-time equivalent) 4.3.1.8 2-7 b-iv Employees ESRS S1-6 52a Number of full-time employees by head count or full-time equivalent 4.3.1.8 2-7 b-iv to v Employees ESRS S1-6 52 Further detailed breakdown by gender and by region [table] 4.3.1.8 2-7 b-v Employees ESRS S1-6 52b Number of part-time employees by head count or full time equivalent 4.3.1.8 2-7 d to e Employees ESRS S1-6 50e AR58 Disclosure of contextual information necessary to understand data (employees) 4.3.1.8 2-8 a Workers who are not employees ESRS S1-7 55a Number of non-employees in own workforce - people provided by undertakings primarily engaged in employment activities 4.3.1.9 ESRS S1-7 Number of non-employees in own workforce - self-employed people 4.3.1.9 ESRS S1-7 55a AR61 Number of non-employees in own workforce 4.3.1.9 2-9 b Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 22a Information about identity of administrative, management and supervisory bodies or individual(s) within body responsible for oversight of impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.2.1 2-9 c-i Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 21a Number of executive members 4.1.2.1 ESRS 2 GOV-1 Number of non-executive members 4.1.2.1 2-9 c-ii Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 21e Percentage of board members who are independent 4.1.2.1 2-9 c-vii Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 21c AR5 Information about member's experience relevant to sectors, products and geographic locations of undertaking 4.1.2.1 ESRS 2 GOV-1 23a Information about sustainability-related expertise that bodies either directly possess or can leverage 4.1.2.1 ESRS 2 GOV-1 23b Description of how those skills and expertise relate to the undertaking's material impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.2.1 2-9 c-viii Governance structure and composition ESRS 2 GOV-1 21b Information about representation of employees and other workers 4.1.2.1 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 319"
"GRI 2; 3 General Disclosures 2021; Material Topics 2021 2-24; 3-3 2-24-a-iii to iv; Guidance to 3-3-d-i Embedding policy commitments; Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR35 Disclosure of how undertaking seeks to use leverage with relevant business relationships to manage material negative impacts affecting own workforce 4.3.1.6 2-25; 3-3 2-25-a; 3-3-d-ii Processes to remediate negative impacts; Management of material topics ESRS S1-1 20c Disclosure of general approach in relation to measures to provide and (or) enable remedy for human rights impacts 4.3.1.3 GRI 2; 403 General Disclosures 2021; Occupational Health and Safety 2018 2-25; 403-2 2-25-b; 403-2-b Processes to remediate negative impacts; Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation ESRS S1-3 32b AR28 Disclosure of specific channels in place for its own workforce to raise concerns or needs directly with undertaking and have them addressed 4.3.1.5 2-25; 403-2 Guidance to 2-5-e; 403-2-b Processes to remediate negative impacts; Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation; External assurance ESRS S1-3 33 Policies regarding protection against retaliation for individuals that use channels to raise concerns or needs are in place 4.3.1.5 GRI 2; 405 General Disclosures 2021; Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 2-7; 405-1 2-7-a; 405-1-b-i Employees; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS S1-6 50a Characteristics of undertaking's employees - number of employees by gender [table] 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50a AR57 Number of employees (head count) 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 Average number of employees (head count) 4.3.1.8 2-9; 405-1 2-9-c-v to vi; 405-1- a-i to iii Governance structure and composition; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS 2 GOV-1 21d Percentage of members of administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.1 2-9; 405-1 2-9-c-v; 405-1-a-i Governance structure and composition; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS 2 GOV-1 21d Board's gender diversity 4.1.2.1 GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016 201-1 a-i Direct economic value generated and distributed ESRS 2 SBM-1 40b AR12- AR13 Total net revenue (financial statements) 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-6 AR55 Net revenue 4.2.3.9 201-2 a-i Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ESRS E1.SBM-3 18 Type of climate-related risk 4.2.3.3 GRI 202 Market Presence 2016 202-1 a; c to d Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage ESRS S1-10 69 AR72- AR74 All employees are paid adequate wage, in line with applicable benchmarks 4.3.1.12 ESRS S1-10 70 Percentage of employees paid below the applicable adequate wage benchmark 4.3.1.12 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 a to b Significant indirect economic impacts ESRS S1-4 AR41 Indication of whether any such initiatives are designed also to support the achievement of one or more Sustainable Development Goals 4.3.1.6 GRI 205 Anti- corruption 2016 205-2 d to e Communication and training about anti- corruption policies and procedures ESRS G1-3 21b AR4 The percentage of functions-at-risk covered by training programmes 4.4.5 ESRS G1-3 AR8 Prevention and detection of corruption or bribery - anti-corruption and bribery training table 4.4.5 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 320 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3 Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ESRS E2-3 22 AR19 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.4.4 ESRS E3-3 22 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.5.4 ESRS E4-3 27 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 ESRS E5-3 23 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.7.2.3 ESRS S1-4 37 Action plans and resources to manage its material impacts, risks, and opportunities related to its own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 46 AR50- AR52 Targets set to manage material impacts, risks and opportunities related to own workforce 4.3.1.7 3-1 a-i Process to determine material topics ESRS 2 BP-1 5c AR1 Disclosure of extent to which sustainability statement covers upstream and downstream value chain 4.1.1.1 3-3 e-iii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33c Disclosure of how far undertaking has progressed in efforts during reporting period 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-iv Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33d Aims for continued improvement 4.3.1.6 3-3 a to b Management of material topics ESRS S1-17 104a AR105 Number of severe human rights issues and incidents connected to own workforce 4.3.1.19 3-3 b Management of material topics ESRS E2.IRO-1 11c AR9 Disclosure of results of materiality assessment (pollution) 4.2.4.1 3-3 c Management of material topics ESRS E1-2 25 AR16- AR18 Sustainability matters addressed by policy for climate change 4.2.3.5 ESRS S1-1 24a Specific policies aimed at elimination of discrimination are in place 3-3 d-i to ii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33a Disclosure of general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 d-i to iii Management of material topics ESRS E2-2 19 AR14 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which resources can be allocated to (pollution) 4.2.4.3 ESRS S1-1 24d How these policies are implemented through specific procedures to ensure discrimination is prevented, mitigated and acted upon once detected, as well as to advance diversity and inclusion in general. 4.3.1.3 3-3 d-ii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38b Disclosure on whether and how action has been taken to provide or enable remedy in relation to actual material impact 4.3.1.6 3-3 d-iii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38c Description of additional initiatives or actions with primary purpose of delivering positive impacts for own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR33b Disclosure of initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 321"
"3-3 e-i Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38d AR38- AR39 Description of how effectiveness of actions and initiatives in delivering outcomes for own workforce is tracked and assessed 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-ii; Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation ESRS E1-4 33 Disclosure of how GHG emissions reduction targets and (or) any other targets have been set to manage material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.7 3-3 f Management of material topics ESRS S1-2 27 Disclosure of whether and how perspectives of own workforce inform decisions or activities aimed at managing actual and potential impacts 4.3.1.4 ESRS S1-4 39 AR34 Description of process through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in response to particular actual or potential negative impact on own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 47b Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in tracking performance against targets 4.3.1.7 ESRS S1-5 47c Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in identifying lessons or improvements as result of undertaking’s performance 4.3.1.7 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-a Management of material topics ESRS SBM-3 14b Material negative impacts occurrence (own workforce) 4.3.1.2 ESRS SBM-3 14c Description of activities that result in positive impacts and types of employees and non-employees in its own workforce that are positively affected or could be positively affected 4.3.1.2 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-d Management of material topics ESRS E3-2 18 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which action and resources can be allocated to (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.3 ESRS S1-4 43 Disclosure of resources allocated to the management of material impacts 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR48 Description of internal functions that are involved in managing impacts and types of action taken by internal functions to address negative and advance positive impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Management of material topics ESRS E1-4 34e-16a AR26 GHG emission reduction target is science based and compatible with limiting global warming to one and half degrees Celsius 4.2.3.7 ESRS E2-3 25 Pollution-related target is mandatory (required by legislation)/voluntary 4.2.4.4 3-3; 303-1, 303-1c Management of material topics; Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-2 17 AR19- AR21 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 GRI 3; 306 Material Topics 2021; Waste 2020 3-3; 306-2 306-2-a Management of material topics; Management of significant waste-related impacts ESRS E5-2 19 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 GRI 3; 403 Material Topics 2021; Occupational Health and Safety 2018 3-3; 403-9 to 10 3-3- d-I; 403-9- c-iii; 403-9-d; 403-10- c-iii Management of material topics; Work-related injuries; Work-related ill health ESRS S1-4 38a Description of action taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate negative impacts on own workforce 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 322 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3; 408; 409 Material Topics 2021; Child Labor 2016; Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 3-3; 408-1; 409-1 3-3-c; 408-1-c; 409-1-b Management of material topics; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ESRS S1-1 22 Policies explicitly address trafficking in human beings, forced labor or compulsory labor and child labor 4.3.1.3 GRI 3; GRI 201 Material Topics 2021; Economic Performance 2016 3-3 201-2 a-iv to v Management of material topics; Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ESRS E1-3 28 Actions and Resources related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.6 GRI 301 Materials 2016 301-1 a Materials used by weight or volume ESRS E5-4 31a Overall total weight of products and technical and biological materials used during the reporting period 4.2.7.3.4 301-1 to 2 301-1-2.1. 4; 301-2-2.3 Materials used by weight or volume; Recycled input materials used ESRS E5-4 32 AR24 Description of methodologies used to calculate data and key assumptions used 4.2.7.3.4 GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 a Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 38a AR33 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38b AR33 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38c AR33 Fuel consumption from natural gas 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38d AR33 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 b Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37ci Fuel consumption from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37ciii Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 4.2.3.8 302-1 c Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37cii Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38e AR33 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 e Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37 AR35 Total energy consumption 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37a AR33 Total energy consumption from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37b Total energy consumption from nuclear sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37c Total energy consumption from renewable 4.2.3.8 302-3 a to d Energy intensity ESRS E1-5 40 AR36 Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors (total energy consumption per net revenue) 4.2.3.8 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 323"
"4.2.4.5 Performance and measures related to pollution of air, water and soil (DR E2-4) [ESRS E2 § 28] POLLUTION OF AIR (kg) Emissions into air 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 Total VOC emissions 364,467 209,396 (43) % Heavy metals – Air NM NM HCFC 1,334 1,111 (17) % CFC 0 0 HFC 4,039 4,446 10% HALON 256 254 (1) % NOx NM NM TOTAL 370,096 215,207 (42) % • VOCs: The volatile organic compound emissions reported in the table above are the sum of VOC emissions from sites exceeding the IEPR thresholds(1). In 2024, the -43% reduction in VOC emissions was attributable to the installation of new purification solutions at the Martos site (Spain). Other sites that are already below the IEPR thresholds continue to reduce their emissions, such as the Zebrak site (Czech Republic), through more efficient purification systems or the introduction of substitute products, such as the Etaples-sur-Mer site (France). Only one site in Mexico exceeds the IEPR threshold, but it is currently looking into the installation of a concentrator system to improve the self-combustion of its VOCs. • Heavy metals: Emissions are well below the IEPR thresholds. • CFC: The last two installations are to be dismantled in 2025. No leaks were observed in 2024 before the shutdown of these installations. • HCFC-HFC: The change in these two values is the result of a substitution of the installed fluids. • Nox: Nitrogen oxide emissions remain well below the IEPR threshold. Their level follows the reduction in the combustion of fossil fuels (gas, fuel oil) in the Group’s plants. [ESRS E2 § 30] Emissions into air are determined as follows: • the calculation of refrigerant gas emissions is based on theoretical leakage of 15% of the quantities present at all sites or the sum of the values if this is applied to all sites for a given fluid; • the calculation of VOC emissions on each site takes into account the efficiency of any scrubbers, either by direct measurement or by taking into account the characteristics of the scrubber; • for metal emissions, direct annual measurements (regulatory measurements) are taken based on production; • for emissions from fuel combustion, CITEPA(2) OMINEA emission factors are applied to the quantities of fuel consumed. POLLUTION OF WATER (%) Emissions to water Areas at water risk NM (1) Areas of high water stress NM (1) (1) NM: Not material. No Group site exceeds the IEPR thresholds for pollutants in water. However, Valeo continues to work to standardize requirements and implement on-site treatment, particularly in areas of high water stress. For all substances detected in wastewater, such as suspended solids and heavy metals, the values consolidated by Valeo in kilograms are not material as they are well below the IEPR declaration thresholds. In line with its groundwater protection policy, the Group reduced the number of sites using groundwater from 17 to 14 in 2024. Due to supply constraints and the absence of public networks, 14 wells have been maintained across the Group. [ESRS E2 § 30] Emissions to water are determined by taking into account the regulatory measurements required to determine the concentration of pollutants in wastewater. These concentrations are multiplied by volume to allow Valeo to quantify the flows discharged. The collection process is managed by the Group's environmental reporting tool. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 242 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) IEPR: Industrial Emissions Portal Regulation – https://environment.ec.europa.eu/topics/industrial-emissions-and-safety/industrial-emissions-portal- regulation-iepr_en (2) CITEPA: CITEPA meets reporting obligations for air pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions in France – www.citepa.org/fr/"
"POLLUTION OF SOIL Emissions into soil are treated as one-time spills only. The quantification and nature of pollutants are reported in an environmental alert tool. There were no major incidents of soil contamination above the legal threshold in 2024. Three internal levels are defined to characterize accidental spills: • Level 1 – Major: volume greater than 1,000 liters • Level 2 – Intermediate: volume greater than 100 liters • Level 3 – Minor: volume less than 100 liters The impact is determined based on residual contamination after the event has been addressed. ACCIDENTAL SPILLS WITHOUT POLLUTION ABOVE THE REGULATORY THRESHOLD Number of accidental spills 2023 2024 Level 1 – Major 2 0 Level 2 – Intermediate 2 5 Level 3 – Minor 6 2 TOTAL 10 7 Impact Without contamination (contained) 100% 100% With contamination 0% 0% TOTAL 100% 100% 4.2.4.6 Performance and measures related to substances of concern and substances of very high concern (DR E2-5) For this first publication for 2024, the Group analyzed the IMDS database shared with its customers to identify substances of very high concern (SVHC) present in its products. Quantities of these substances were estimated by multiplying them by the corresponding sales volumes to calculate the total weight per substance. An adjustment factor was applied in order to cover the full scope. The reliability of the reported data has been verified. To improve the reliability of information published, the methodology will be progressively refined, and additional controls will be implemented in the coming years. [ESRS E2 § 32] - [ESRS E2 § 34] TOTAL QUANTITY OF SUBSTANCES OF VERY HIGH CONCERN IN PRODUCTS, BROKEN DOWN BY THE MAIN HAZARD CLASSES OF SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN (t) 2024 CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic 151 ED: EnDocrine disruptor for human health or the environment. 0.408 PBT: Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic 40 vPvB: very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative 0 PMT: Persistent, Mobile and Toxic 0 vPvM: very Persistent, very Mobile 0 SVHC: substances of very high concern without label 2 TOTAL 193 Valeo has policies and tools designed to ensure that its products and those of its suppliers comply with the requirements of European regulations on the use of regulated chemicals. For example, the Group's entire portfolio complies with applicable regulations, in particular Regulation 1907/2006 (REACH) and the End-of-Life Vehicle (ELV) Directive via the International Material Data System (IMDS), the automotive industry's benchmark platform for collecting material data at every stage of the value chain for all components. The total number of substances of very high concern represents around 0.01% of the product weight. Valeo aims to reduce the use of such substances wherever possible. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 243"
"[ESRS E2 § 35] TOTAL QUANTITY OF SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN GENERATED, OR USED IN PRODUCTION OR PURCHASED, BROKEN DOWN BY THE MAIN HAZARD CLASSES OF SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN (t) 2024 CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic 735 ED: EnDocrine disruptor for human health or the environment Data not available PBT: Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic Data not available vPvB: very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative Data not available PMT: Persistent, Mobile and Toxic Data not available vPvM: very Persistent, very Mobile Data not available TOTAL 735 For 2024, the Group is not able to collect and disclose data relating to the quantities of substances of concern or to provide details on the total quantities. However, due to the nature of Valeo’s activities, the risk of finding substances classified as non-CMR in the products used is considered negligible. 4.2.4.7 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks, and opportunities (DR E2-6) The CSRD allows companies to omit the information prescribed by ESRS E2-6(1) for the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on its anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities. [ESRS E2 § 40] To date, operating expenses and capital expenditure incurred in connection with major deposits and incidents are not automatically identifiable in the Group's accounting tools. Valeo is therefore unable to report this information in respect of 2024. A process for identifying pollution-related OpEx and CapEx will be implemented in 2025. 4.2.5 Water resources (ESRS E3) 4.2.5.1 Identification and assessment of material water-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E3 – WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES Water Risk of failing to limit water withdrawal in areas of water stress, with a negative impact on the environment and financial consequences for the operations of the most exposed production sites. Water Risk of failing to control water consumption for domestic or industrial use, with a negative impact on the environment and financial consequences for the operations of the most exposed production sites. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 244 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) With the exception of the information required by paragraph 40(b) on operating expenses and capital expenditures incurred during the reporting period in conjunction with major incidents and deposits."
"Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E3 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). Based on an analysis conducted in 2021 with an external consultant, the list of sites exposed to the risk of water stress, or even to risks of water restrictions, water shortages or water cuts by 2030, 2040 and 2050 has been updated. It is based on two IPCC global warming scenarios, SSP2 4.5 and SSP5 8.5, reasonably optimistic and reasonably pessimistic respectively (see section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks”, paragraph “Physical risks – Analysis methodology”, page 219). Given the importance of this resource, the Group aims to limit withdrawals, control its water consumption, and ensure the supply of good quality water for its staff. Due to their geographic location, some Valeo sites may be exposed to water cuts or restrictions resulting from: • a municipal/regional decision in the event of a drought; • a shortage of water sources supplying the site (public network, groundwater); • poor water quality (wells, groundwater); • a restriction imposed by local authorities in the event of overconsumption; • the lack of a water recovery system; • the absence of internal treatment and recycling; • the absence of a closed-loop water circuit. The main water-related risk factors are coastal flooding, river flooding and water stress. Data are from Aqueduct (WRI(1)), from JBA), with a resolution of less than 1 km, and demand and supply are assessed using the IIASA(2) Water Futures and Solutions (WFaS) and ISIMIP(3) models. In addition, all existing and newly acquired Valeo sites are subject to analysis by a specialized external firm. This water-related due diligence covers the following risk metrics: wastewater discharge, impact on soil and groundwater, site location and surrounding land use, site utilities (including water supply and network, wastewater discharge and treatment, rainwater discharge and drainage, fire protection facilities and water supply), hydrology and hydrogeology (including surface watercourses closest to the site, national water quality standard and shallow groundwater). Each year, Valeo assesses its suppliers’ sustainability practices through a self-assessment questionnaire that includes a section on water management (see section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing”, page 293). [ESRS E3 § 8] Due to the location of the Group’s sites and the nature of its activities, water consumption and discharges have not impacted local communities to date. 4.2.5.2 Policies related to water (DR E3-1) The risk of water stress is increasing in many geographic areas relative to the local capacity to renew water reserves due to: • changes in global water demand (particularly in the United States, China and India); • the effects of global warming. Under the impetus of the Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Director, Valeo applies the following water management policy to all its activities, sites, employees and subcontractors: • performance of an environmental risk assessment before any acquisition or leasing of land or buildings, notably to determine the potential level of water stress of the future site locations; • preparation of a water supply and distribution network plan, identifying its isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, distinguishing between domestic and industrial uses and uses for firefighting and drinking water. With regard to drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied from an external source (preferably the public network) and be protected against the risk of contamination by other networks; • encouragement of the use of non-drinking water wherever possible (toilets, irrigation, cleaning, firefighting, etc.); • installation of systems for determining the volume of water consumed by use (domestic, industrial, firefighting) for each water supply source; • completion of water cycle studies to fine-tune the identification of water losses related to processes, evaporation or water leaks in pipes; • work to prevent leaks attributable to aging equipment; • development of on-site water treatment processes to recover and reuse water internally; • rainwater collection. However, events such as local restrictions due to heat waves, scarcity of water sources or poor water quality can affect access to water resources, which is why it is so important for many of the Group’s sites to reduce not only their consumption but also the absolute amount of water they withdraw. The Valeo 4R circular economy program designs products and services to minimize water consumption and to treat and recycle industrial water internally. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 245 (1) Word Resources Institute (WRI): environmental research organization. (2) International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA): International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis. Interdisciplinary research institute working in areas such as sustainable development, climate change, etc. (3) Inter-Sectoral Impact Model Intercomparison Project (ISIMIP): cross-sector impact model comparison project providing a framework for compiling a set of simulations based on historical and future scientific scenarios as a basis for climate impact projections."
"The Group ensures compliance with all applicable laws and adheres to recognized norms and standards relevant to its operations, meeting all compliance requirements. Valeo is committed to conducting its business in a manner that contributes to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, notably by contributing to sustainable water management in the communities where it operates. The Group is committed to disclosing relevant water management metrics and targets in accordance with global reporting standards. The full understanding and implementation of the water management policy at site level is assessed through a questionnaire issued by the HSE Department and Internal Control Department and submitted to site managers. The policy’s effectiveness is then measured on a regular basis, site by site, using metrics linked to the quantity of water withdrawn and the quality of water discharged into the natural environment, with strict specifications depending on the configuration of the various sites. In this way, the Group is committed to reducing its water footprint and contributing to a more sustainable future for mobility. 4.2.5.3 Actions and resources related to water (DR E3-2) Sustainable water management: recommendations for industrial and domestic sites The Group aims to control and minimize water consumption at its sites as much as possible, by leveraging appropriate human and material resources in line with its policy: • control and reduce leakage attributable to aging equipment and pipes; • control water supply and distribution networks with isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, differentiated by: • domestic use (if separate from drinking water); • industrial uses, • use for firefighting; • drinking water. For drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied externally (public mains network preferably), and water networks must be protected from the risk of contamination by other networks. To minimize water consumption, sites are urged to take action on both their industrial and domestic consumption: • increasing the frequency of water consumption readings from quarterly to monthly; • identifying the respective needs in regard to each of the main uses of water; • optimizing consumption by integrating water saving aspects that can be factored into the purchasing decision for new equipment; • optimizing washing operations by switching to closed-loop equipment with water treatment and reuse; • setting up recycling systems such as recovering discharge water from cooling towers; • recovering condensate water from closed circuits; • reusing water from washing floors and equipment; • replacing evaporative aerothermal cooling towers with adiabatic towers or air-cooled cooling towers; • reducing domestic water consumption by reducing pressure, installing sensor taps, recycling shower water for use in toilets, installing dual flush toilets, and collecting rainwater. Sustainable water management: measures taken to address the risks of water restrictions, shortages and cuts Prior to the purchase or lease of land or buildings, the Group requires that an environmental risk assessment be carried out in order to determine, among other things, the level of water stress of future site locations. To mitigate the effects of periods of water stress, initiatives have been undertaken to optimize water consumption and withdrawal, to equip sites with reservoirs to prepare for periods of water stress, and to secure processes and fire protection for buildings. Sustainable water management: status and progress of water management programs The main actions of the water management program implemented are as follows: • Shenzhen: Switch to air-cooled towers and deployment of sub-meters to control on-site water consumption; • Penang: Finalization of the installation of sensors for detailed consumption analysis; • Guangzhou: Switch to air-cooled towers; • Chonburi: Rainwater collection study underway; • Rio, Ben Arous, Enfidha, Juarez, Cairo: Domestic water measures; • Sanand: Repair of the wastewater treatment plant; • Chennai: Construction of a wastewater treatment plant; • Mondovi, Shenyang, Nanjing Daegu 1: Renovation of the water supply network; • Amiens: Replacement of the open-water cooling tower with an adiabatic cooler; • Campinas: Installation of 30 sub-meters; • Étaples: Cooling tower ventilation control based on outside temperature to reduce evaporation; • Étaples, Campinas: Atmospheric breakers. Overall, the use of closed-loop mold cooling is becoming more widespread across the Group (67% of sites in 2024). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 246 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"[ESRS E2 § 35] TOTAL QUANTITY OF SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN GENERATED, OR USED IN PRODUCTION OR PURCHASED, BROKEN DOWN BY THE MAIN HAZARD CLASSES OF SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN (t) 2024 CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic 735 ED: EnDocrine disruptor for human health or the environment Data not available PBT: Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic Data not available vPvB: very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative Data not available PMT: Persistent, Mobile and Toxic Data not available vPvM: very Persistent, very Mobile Data not available TOTAL 735 For 2024, the Group is not able to collect and disclose data relating to the quantities of substances of concern or to provide details on the total quantities. However, due to the nature of Valeo’s activities, the risk of finding substances classified as non-CMR in the products used is considered negligible. 4.2.4.7 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks, and opportunities (DR E2-6) The CSRD allows companies to omit the information prescribed by ESRS E2-6(1) for the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on its anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities. [ESRS E2 § 40] To date, operating expenses and capital expenditure incurred in connection with major deposits and incidents are not automatically identifiable in the Group's accounting tools. Valeo is therefore unable to report this information in respect of 2024. A process for identifying pollution-related OpEx and CapEx will be implemented in 2025. 4.2.5 Water resources (ESRS E3) 4.2.5.1 Identification and assessment of material water-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E3 – WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES Water Risk of failing to limit water withdrawal in areas of water stress, with a negative impact on the environment and financial consequences for the operations of the most exposed production sites. Water Risk of failing to control water consumption for domestic or industrial use, with a negative impact on the environment and financial consequences for the operations of the most exposed production sites. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 244 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) With the exception of the information required by paragraph 40(b) on operating expenses and capital expenditures incurred during the reporting period in conjunction with major incidents and deposits."
"Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E3 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). Based on an analysis conducted in 2021 with an external consultant, the list of sites exposed to the risk of water stress, or even to risks of water restrictions, water shortages or water cuts by 2030, 2040 and 2050 has been updated. It is based on two IPCC global warming scenarios, SSP2 4.5 and SSP5 8.5, reasonably optimistic and reasonably pessimistic respectively (see section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks”, paragraph “Physical risks – Analysis methodology”, page 219). Given the importance of this resource, the Group aims to limit withdrawals, control its water consumption, and ensure the supply of good quality water for its staff. Due to their geographic location, some Valeo sites may be exposed to water cuts or restrictions resulting from: • a municipal/regional decision in the event of a drought; • a shortage of water sources supplying the site (public network, groundwater); • poor water quality (wells, groundwater); • a restriction imposed by local authorities in the event of overconsumption; • the lack of a water recovery system; • the absence of internal treatment and recycling; • the absence of a closed-loop water circuit. The main water-related risk factors are coastal flooding, river flooding and water stress. Data are from Aqueduct (WRI(1)), from JBA), with a resolution of less than 1 km, and demand and supply are assessed using the IIASA(2) Water Futures and Solutions (WFaS) and ISIMIP(3) models. In addition, all existing and newly acquired Valeo sites are subject to analysis by a specialized external firm. This water-related due diligence covers the following risk metrics: wastewater discharge, impact on soil and groundwater, site location and surrounding land use, site utilities (including water supply and network, wastewater discharge and treatment, rainwater discharge and drainage, fire protection facilities and water supply), hydrology and hydrogeology (including surface watercourses closest to the site, national water quality standard and shallow groundwater). Each year, Valeo assesses its suppliers’ sustainability practices through a self-assessment questionnaire that includes a section on water management (see section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing”, page 293). [ESRS E3 § 8] Due to the location of the Group’s sites and the nature of its activities, water consumption and discharges have not impacted local communities to date. 4.2.5.2 Policies related to water (DR E3-1) The risk of water stress is increasing in many geographic areas relative to the local capacity to renew water reserves due to: • changes in global water demand (particularly in the United States, China and India); • the effects of global warming. Under the impetus of the Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Director, Valeo applies the following water management policy to all its activities, sites, employees and subcontractors: • performance of an environmental risk assessment before any acquisition or leasing of land or buildings, notably to determine the potential level of water stress of the future site locations; • preparation of a water supply and distribution network plan, identifying its isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, distinguishing between domestic and industrial uses and uses for firefighting and drinking water. With regard to drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied from an external source (preferably the public network) and be protected against the risk of contamination by other networks; • encouragement of the use of non-drinking water wherever possible (toilets, irrigation, cleaning, firefighting, etc.); • installation of systems for determining the volume of water consumed by use (domestic, industrial, firefighting) for each water supply source; • completion of water cycle studies to fine-tune the identification of water losses related to processes, evaporation or water leaks in pipes; • work to prevent leaks attributable to aging equipment; • development of on-site water treatment processes to recover and reuse water internally; • rainwater collection. However, events such as local restrictions due to heat waves, scarcity of water sources or poor water quality can affect access to water resources, which is why it is so important for many of the Group’s sites to reduce not only their consumption but also the absolute amount of water they withdraw. The Valeo 4R circular economy program designs products and services to minimize water consumption and to treat and recycle industrial water internally. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 245 (1) Word Resources Institute (WRI): environmental research organization. (2) International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA): International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis. Interdisciplinary research institute working in areas such as sustainable development, climate change, etc. (3) Inter-Sectoral Impact Model Intercomparison Project (ISIMIP): cross-sector impact model comparison project providing a framework for compiling a set of simulations based on historical and future scientific scenarios as a basis for climate impact projections."
"The Group ensures compliance with all applicable laws and adheres to recognized norms and standards relevant to its operations, meeting all compliance requirements. Valeo is committed to conducting its business in a manner that contributes to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, notably by contributing to sustainable water management in the communities where it operates. The Group is committed to disclosing relevant water management metrics and targets in accordance with global reporting standards. The full understanding and implementation of the water management policy at site level is assessed through a questionnaire issued by the HSE Department and Internal Control Department and submitted to site managers. The policy’s effectiveness is then measured on a regular basis, site by site, using metrics linked to the quantity of water withdrawn and the quality of water discharged into the natural environment, with strict specifications depending on the configuration of the various sites. In this way, the Group is committed to reducing its water footprint and contributing to a more sustainable future for mobility. 4.2.5.3 Actions and resources related to water (DR E3-2) Sustainable water management: recommendations for industrial and domestic sites The Group aims to control and minimize water consumption at its sites as much as possible, by leveraging appropriate human and material resources in line with its policy: • control and reduce leakage attributable to aging equipment and pipes; • control water supply and distribution networks with isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, differentiated by: • domestic use (if separate from drinking water); • industrial uses, • use for firefighting; • drinking water. For drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied externally (public mains network preferably), and water networks must be protected from the risk of contamination by other networks. To minimize water consumption, sites are urged to take action on both their industrial and domestic consumption: • increasing the frequency of water consumption readings from quarterly to monthly; • identifying the respective needs in regard to each of the main uses of water; • optimizing consumption by integrating water saving aspects that can be factored into the purchasing decision for new equipment; • optimizing washing operations by switching to closed-loop equipment with water treatment and reuse; • setting up recycling systems such as recovering discharge water from cooling towers; • recovering condensate water from closed circuits; • reusing water from washing floors and equipment; • replacing evaporative aerothermal cooling towers with adiabatic towers or air-cooled cooling towers; • reducing domestic water consumption by reducing pressure, installing sensor taps, recycling shower water for use in toilets, installing dual flush toilets, and collecting rainwater. Sustainable water management: measures taken to address the risks of water restrictions, shortages and cuts Prior to the purchase or lease of land or buildings, the Group requires that an environmental risk assessment be carried out in order to determine, among other things, the level of water stress of future site locations. To mitigate the effects of periods of water stress, initiatives have been undertaken to optimize water consumption and withdrawal, to equip sites with reservoirs to prepare for periods of water stress, and to secure processes and fire protection for buildings. Sustainable water management: status and progress of water management programs The main actions of the water management program implemented are as follows: • Shenzhen: Switch to air-cooled towers and deployment of sub-meters to control on-site water consumption; • Penang: Finalization of the installation of sensors for detailed consumption analysis; • Guangzhou: Switch to air-cooled towers; • Chonburi: Rainwater collection study underway; • Rio, Ben Arous, Enfidha, Juarez, Cairo: Domestic water measures; • Sanand: Repair of the wastewater treatment plant; • Chennai: Construction of a wastewater treatment plant; • Mondovi, Shenyang, Nanjing Daegu 1: Renovation of the water supply network; • Amiens: Replacement of the open-water cooling tower with an adiabatic cooler; • Campinas: Installation of 30 sub-meters; • Étaples: Cooling tower ventilation control based on outside temperature to reduce evaporation; • Étaples, Campinas: Atmospheric breakers. Overall, the use of closed-loop mold cooling is becoming more widespread across the Group (67% of sites in 2024). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 246 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Sustainable water management: actions planned for the future Water management program The Group will reinforce its efforts to reduce water consumption with the publication of a Water Manual. It contains best practices in water consumption analysis and reduction, as well as examples of financing. The External Affairs Department is exploring opportunities for financing programs in China, Poland, Mexico and India. A dedicated webinar for sites is currently being rolled out. Water quality With respect to water quality, the Group plans to: • add 25 new substances to the list of substances monitored by the Group; • reduce the maximum concentration values for several pollutants; • develop a single methodology for measuring and monitoring antimicrobial genes; • request additional information at site level; • increase the pace of updates of pollutant lists to keep up with scientific developments; • use the LEAP (Locate, Evaluate, Assess, Prepare) approach; • define target-setting standards in agreement with Divisions and sites (in case of a change in scope, the reference may be revised). 4.2.5.4 Targets related to water (DR E3-3) [ESRS E3 § 23] Valeo does not currently have specific targets for its sites located in areas of high-water stress. Specific targets will be set for the next period (2025-2030). The aim of such targets is to limit the risk associated with the availability of water resources, for example by promoting the use of recycled water on site and by controlling water withdrawal. [ESRS E3 § 25] Targets The Group has voluntarily set two targets to limit the risk associated with water withdrawals in high-risk areas: • water withdrawal intensity: the aim of this target is to reduce water withdrawals. The Group has elected to use an intensity criterion in order to dissociate outcomes from business development. The target intensity had been set at 185 cu.m/ million euros for 2025; • the number of sites with groundwater withdrawals: the aim of this indicator is to minimize the number of sites with direct groundwater withdrawals. However, groundwater is the only available source for some sites. The Group’s net water consumption, including wastewater, is being reported for the first time for 2024. The Group plans to set new water consumption targets for 2030. Historically, water withdrawal reduction targets have been set at Group level, based on two criteria: first, individual criteria for the biggest water consumers; and second, a geographic criterion for sites in areas of high water stress. Expected outcomes The Group’s water management program focuses on sites representing 50% of total water withdrawals in order to reduce not only the intensity of water withdrawals, but also the absolute value of water withdrawals. In 2024, the number of sites using groundwater was reduced from 17 to 14. Due to supply constraints and the absence of public networks, 14 wells have been maintained across the Group. In 2024, Valeo confirms the achievement of its 2025 objectives in terms of intensity and reduction in absolute terms. New, more ambitious targets have been set for 2030. 4.2.5.5 Water consumption (DR E3-4) In 2024, for the first year, the Valeo Group reported a net consumption of 790,451 cu.m. of water, taking into account volumes withdrawn and discharged. WATER WITHDRAWALS, DISCHARGES AND CONSUMPTION Unit 2019 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 2025 target TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION cu.m ND ND 790,451 Total water consumption in areas of water stress, including areas of high-water stress; cu.m ND ND 277,030 Total water recycled and reused cu.m ND ND 292,220 Total water stored ND ND NS Changes in water storage ND ND NS Water consumption intensity ratio cu.m/€m ND ND 37 Water withdrawal intensity ratio cu.m/€m 197 148 121 -18% 185 Total water withdrawn cu.m 3,697,803 3,027,288 2,609,927 -14 % < 3,000,000 Total water discharged cu.m ND ND 1,819,476 The -14% drop in the absolute value of water withdrawals compared with 2023 is the result of the Group’s mobilization around a water management program launched in 2019, which aims to control and reduce withdrawals, detect and eliminate leaks and the use of open-loop water, and prohibit groundwater withdrawals for industrial use. Through the quarterly sharing of best practices, on-site water treatment and reuse solutions are promoted and adopted. The overall water withdrawal intensity ratio decreased by 18% to 121 cu.m./million euros in 2024. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 247"
"Methodological details and definitions of metrics The amount of water consumed is determined by the amount of water withdrawn and the amount of water discharged, with or without treatment, in accordance with the expectations of ESRS E3-4. Water withdrawals include water from the public supply network, groundwater, surface water and rainwater collected on all Valeo Group sites. The measurement of water discharge was added to the reporting process in 2023 and includes water discharged to third parties or into a natural environment. Calculations of water consumption, discharges and withdrawals are based on actual data. Water consumption is calculated by subtracting water discharges from water withdrawals. To obtain a breakdown of the various metrics for areas of high- and extremely high-water stress, sites were classified using the WRI Aqueduct V4 tool. The Group records the amount of water treated on-site, recycled and reused in production. Stored water has been deliberately excluded from metrics as it represents immaterial volumes (firewater). Water intensity is measured using two numerators: • water consumption in accordance with ESRS E3-4; • water withdrawal to provide data comparable with those observed in previous reference periods. [ESRS E3 § 28] For withdrawals, 100% of data is from actual measurements. For water discharges, 40% of data is from actual discharge measurements, and 60% from estimates. 4.2.5.6 Anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR E3-5) The CSRD allows companies to omit the information prescribed by ESRS E3-5 for the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on its anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities. To date, the Group's water-related operating expenses and capital expenditure are not automatically identifiable in its accounting systems. Valeo is therefore unable to report this information in respect of 2024. However, a process for identifying these OpEx and CapEx will be implemented in 2025. 4.2.6 Biodiversity (ESRS E4) 4.2.6.1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (DR E4-1) [ESRS E4 § 13] At this stage, the Group has not conducted a resilience analysis of its strategy and economic model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems, as it does not have a direct dependence on natural resources that could be affected by systemic, physical and transition risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E4 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 248 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"4.5 Appendices Appendix 1 – Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56) ESRS 2 BP-1 General basis for preparation of the sustainability statements 4.1.1.1 4.1.1.2 187 ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 4.1.1.3 190 ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-1 21 (d) The Board's gender diversity x x 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-2 Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking's administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-2 21 (e) Percentage of independent board members x 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.1.2.3 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 30 Statement on due diligence x 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting 4.1.2.5 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain 4.1.3.1 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) i Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities x x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) ii Involvement in activities related to chemical production x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iii Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iv Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.1.3.2 195 ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.1.3.3 200 ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.4.1 201 ESRS 2 IRO-2 Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 4.1.4.2 203 ESRS 2 GOV-3 E1 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.2.3.1 217 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 298 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 14 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 x 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 16 (g) Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned benchmarks x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-3 E1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.3.2 218 ESRS 2 IRO-1 E1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.3 219 ESRS E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.5 227 ESRS E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 4.2.3.6 228 ESRS E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.7 229 ESRS E1-4 34 GHG emission reduction targets x x x 4.2.3.7 230 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 38 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 37 Energy consumption and mix x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 40-43 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors x 4.2.3.8 234 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 234 ESRS E1-6 44 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions x x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-6 53-55 Gross GHG emissions intensity x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-7 GHG absorption and mitigation projects financed through carbon credits Not applicable ESRS E1-7 56 GHG removals and carbon credits x Not applicable ESRS E1-8 Internal carbon pricing 4.2.3.10 236 ESRS E1-9 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 66 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks x 4.2.3.11 236 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 299"
"ESRS E1-9 66 (a); 66 (c) Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk Location of significant assets at material physical risk x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 67 (c) Breakdown of the carrying value of the undertaking's real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 69 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate-related opportunities x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS IRO-1 E2 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.1 236 ESRS E2-1 Policies related to pollution 4.2.4.2 237 ESRS E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 239 ESRS E2-3 Targets related to pollution 4.2.4.4 241 ESRS E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-4 28 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil x 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 4.2.4.6 243 ESRS E2-6 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.7 244 ESRS IRO-1 E3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 244 ESRS E3-1 Policies related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 9 Water and marine resources x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 13 Dedicated policy x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 14 Sustainable oceans and seas x Not applicable ESRS E3-2 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 246 ESRS E3-3 Targets related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.4 247 ESRS E3-4 Number of accidents with lost time 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 28 (c) Total percentage of water recycled and reused x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 29 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-5 Anticipated financial effects from water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.6 248 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 300 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 4.2.6.1 248 ESRS 2-SBM-3 E4 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (a) i Activities negatively affecting biodiversity-sensitive areas x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (b) Breakdown of sites according to impacts and dependencies x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (c) Biodiversity-sensitive areas affected x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS IRO-1 E4 Description of the processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.3 249 ESRS E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-2 24 (b) Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (c) Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (d) Policy to prevent deforestation x 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 250 ESRS E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.6 251 ESRS E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 4.2.6.7 251 ESRS E4-6 Anticipated financial effects from biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.8 251 ESRS IRO-1 E5 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.1 252 ESRS E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.1 4.2.7.3.1 4.2.7.4.1 252 ESRS E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 4.2.7.3.2 4.2.7.4.2 253 ESRS E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.3 4.2.7.3.3 4.2.7.4.3 254 ESRS E5-4 Resource inflows 4.2.7.3.4 256 ESRS E5-5 Resource outflows 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 37 (d) Non-recycled waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 39 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 301"
"ESRS E5-6 Anticipated financial effects from resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.5 259 ESRS 2 SBM-2 S1 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.3.1.1 261 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.3.1.2 261 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 14 (f) Forced labor risk x 4.3.1.2 262 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 14 (g) Child labor risk x 4.3.1.2 262 ESRS S1-1 Policies related to own workforce 4.3.1.3 263 ESRS S1-1 20 Human rights policy commitments x 4.3.1.3 263 ESRS S1-1 21 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions 1 to 8 x 4.3.1.3 267 ESRS S1-1 22 Processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings x 4.3.1.3 268 ESRS S1-1 23 Workplace accident prevention policy or management system x 4.3.1.3 266 ESRS S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers' representatives about impacts 4.3.1.4 268 ESRS S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 4.3.1.5 269 ESRS S1-3 32 (c) Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms x 4.3.1.5 270 ESRS S1-4 Taking action on material impacts, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions and approaches 4.3.1.6 270 ESRS S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 4.3.1.7 276 ESRS S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 4.3.1.8 278 ESRS S1-7 Characteristics of non-employee workers in the undertaking's own workforce 4.3.1.9 279 ESRS S1-8 Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 4.3.1.10 279 ESRS S1-9 Diversity metrics 4.3.1.11 280 ESRS S1-10 Adequate wages 4.3.1.12 280 ESRS S1-11 Social protection 4.3.1.13 280 ESRS S1-12 Persons with disabilities 4.3.1.14 280 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 302 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 2; 3 General Disclosures 2021; Material Topics 2021 2-24; 3-3 2-24-a-iii to iv; Guidance to 3-3-d-i Embedding policy commitments; Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR35 Disclosure of how undertaking seeks to use leverage with relevant business relationships to manage material negative impacts affecting own workforce 4.3.1.6 2-25; 3-3 2-25-a; 3-3-d-ii Processes to remediate negative impacts; Management of material topics ESRS S1-1 20c Disclosure of general approach in relation to measures to provide and (or) enable remedy for human rights impacts 4.3.1.3 GRI 2; 403 General Disclosures 2021; Occupational Health and Safety 2018 2-25; 403-2 2-25-b; 403-2-b Processes to remediate negative impacts; Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation ESRS S1-3 32b AR28 Disclosure of specific channels in place for its own workforce to raise concerns or needs directly with undertaking and have them addressed 4.3.1.5 2-25; 403-2 Guidance to 2-5-e; 403-2-b Processes to remediate negative impacts; Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation; External assurance ESRS S1-3 33 Policies regarding protection against retaliation for individuals that use channels to raise concerns or needs are in place 4.3.1.5 GRI 2; 405 General Disclosures 2021; Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 2-7; 405-1 2-7-a; 405-1-b-i Employees; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS S1-6 50a Characteristics of undertaking's employees - number of employees by gender [table] 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 50a AR57 Number of employees (head count) 4.3.1.8 ESRS S1-6 Average number of employees (head count) 4.3.1.8 2-9; 405-1 2-9-c-v to vi; 405-1- a-i to iii Governance structure and composition; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS 2 GOV-1 21d Percentage of members of administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.1 2-9; 405-1 2-9-c-v; 405-1-a-i Governance structure and composition; Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESRS 2 GOV-1 21d Board's gender diversity 4.1.2.1 GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016 201-1 a-i Direct economic value generated and distributed ESRS 2 SBM-1 40b AR12- AR13 Total net revenue (financial statements) 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-6 AR55 Net revenue 4.2.3.9 201-2 a-i Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ESRS E1.SBM-3 18 Type of climate-related risk 4.2.3.3 GRI 202 Market Presence 2016 202-1 a; c to d Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage ESRS S1-10 69 AR72- AR74 All employees are paid adequate wage, in line with applicable benchmarks 4.3.1.12 ESRS S1-10 70 Percentage of employees paid below the applicable adequate wage benchmark 4.3.1.12 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 a to b Significant indirect economic impacts ESRS S1-4 AR41 Indication of whether any such initiatives are designed also to support the achievement of one or more Sustainable Development Goals 4.3.1.6 GRI 205 Anti- corruption 2016 205-2 d to e Communication and training about anti- corruption policies and procedures ESRS G1-3 21b AR4 The percentage of functions-at-risk covered by training programmes 4.4.5 ESRS G1-3 AR8 Prevention and detection of corruption or bribery - anti-corruption and bribery training table 4.4.5 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 320 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3 Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ESRS E2-3 22 AR19 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.4.4 ESRS E3-3 22 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.5.4 ESRS E4-3 27 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 ESRS E5-3 23 Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets 4.2.7.2.3 ESRS S1-4 37 Action plans and resources to manage its material impacts, risks, and opportunities related to its own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 46 AR50- AR52 Targets set to manage material impacts, risks and opportunities related to own workforce 4.3.1.7 3-1 a-i Process to determine material topics ESRS 2 BP-1 5c AR1 Disclosure of extent to which sustainability statement covers upstream and downstream value chain 4.1.1.1 3-3 e-iii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33c Disclosure of how far undertaking has progressed in efforts during reporting period 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-iv Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33d Aims for continued improvement 4.3.1.6 3-3 a to b Management of material topics ESRS S1-17 104a AR105 Number of severe human rights issues and incidents connected to own workforce 4.3.1.19 3-3 b Management of material topics ESRS E2.IRO-1 11c AR9 Disclosure of results of materiality assessment (pollution) 4.2.4.1 3-3 c Management of material topics ESRS E1-2 25 AR16- AR18 Sustainability matters addressed by policy for climate change 4.2.3.5 ESRS S1-1 24a Specific policies aimed at elimination of discrimination are in place 3-3 d-i to ii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 AR33a Disclosure of general and specific approaches to addressing material negative impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 d-i to iii Management of material topics ESRS E2-2 19 AR14 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which resources can be allocated to (pollution) 4.2.4.3 ESRS S1-1 24d How these policies are implemented through specific procedures to ensure discrimination is prevented, mitigated and acted upon once detected, as well as to advance diversity and inclusion in general. 4.3.1.3 3-3 d-ii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38b Disclosure on whether and how action has been taken to provide or enable remedy in relation to actual material impact 4.3.1.6 3-3 d-iii Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38c Description of additional initiatives or actions with primary purpose of delivering positive impacts for own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR33b Disclosure of initiatives aimed at contributing to additional material positive impacts 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 321"
"3-3 e-i Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38d AR38- AR39 Description of how effectiveness of actions and initiatives in delivering outcomes for own workforce is tracked and assessed 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-ii; Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation ESRS E1-4 33 Disclosure of how GHG emissions reduction targets and (or) any other targets have been set to manage material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.7 3-3 f Management of material topics ESRS S1-2 27 Disclosure of whether and how perspectives of own workforce inform decisions or activities aimed at managing actual and potential impacts 4.3.1.4 ESRS S1-4 39 AR34 Description of process through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in response to particular actual or potential negative impact on own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 47b Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in tracking performance against targets 4.3.1.7 ESRS S1-5 47c Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in identifying lessons or improvements as result of undertaking’s performance 4.3.1.7 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-a Management of material topics ESRS SBM-3 14b Material negative impacts occurrence (own workforce) 4.3.1.2 ESRS SBM-3 14c Description of activities that result in positive impacts and types of employees and non-employees in its own workforce that are positively affected or could be positively affected 4.3.1.2 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-d Management of material topics ESRS E3-2 18 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which action and resources can be allocated to (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.3 ESRS S1-4 43 Disclosure of resources allocated to the management of material impacts 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR48 Description of internal functions that are involved in managing impacts and types of action taken by internal functions to address negative and advance positive impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Management of material topics ESRS E1-4 34e-16a AR26 GHG emission reduction target is science based and compatible with limiting global warming to one and half degrees Celsius 4.2.3.7 ESRS E2-3 25 Pollution-related target is mandatory (required by legislation)/voluntary 4.2.4.4 3-3; 303-1, 303-1c Management of material topics; Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-2 17 AR19- AR21 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 GRI 3; 306 Material Topics 2021; Waste 2020 3-3; 306-2 306-2-a Management of material topics; Management of significant waste-related impacts ESRS E5-2 19 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 GRI 3; 403 Material Topics 2021; Occupational Health and Safety 2018 3-3; 403-9 to 10 3-3- d-I; 403-9- c-iii; 403-9-d; 403-10- c-iii Management of material topics; Work-related injuries; Work-related ill health ESRS S1-4 38a Description of action taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate negative impacts on own workforce 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 322 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3; 408; 409 Material Topics 2021; Child Labor 2016; Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 3-3; 408-1; 409-1 3-3-c; 408-1-c; 409-1-b Management of material topics; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ESRS S1-1 22 Policies explicitly address trafficking in human beings, forced labor or compulsory labor and child labor 4.3.1.3 GRI 3; GRI 201 Material Topics 2021; Economic Performance 2016 3-3 201-2 a-iv to v Management of material topics; Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ESRS E1-3 28 Actions and Resources related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.6 GRI 301 Materials 2016 301-1 a Materials used by weight or volume ESRS E5-4 31a Overall total weight of products and technical and biological materials used during the reporting period 4.2.7.3.4 301-1 to 2 301-1-2.1. 4; 301-2-2.3 Materials used by weight or volume; Recycled input materials used ESRS E5-4 32 AR24 Description of methodologies used to calculate data and key assumptions used 4.2.7.3.4 GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 a Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 38a AR33 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38b AR33 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38c AR33 Fuel consumption from natural gas 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38d AR33 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 b Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37ci Fuel consumption from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37ciii Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 4.2.3.8 302-1 c Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37cii Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38e AR33 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 e Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37 AR35 Total energy consumption 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37a AR33 Total energy consumption from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37b Total energy consumption from nuclear sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37c Total energy consumption from renewable 4.2.3.8 302-3 a to d Energy intensity ESRS E1-5 40 AR36 Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors (total energy consumption per net revenue) 4.2.3.8 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 323"
"GRI 303 Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 a to b Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS IRO-1 8a AR1- AR15 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources- related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 303-1 c Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS IRO-1 8b Disclosure of how consultations have been conducted (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.1 303-1 d Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-3 24 AR22 (Local) ecological threshold and entity-specific allocation were taken into consideration when setting water and marine resources target 4.2.5.4 ESRS E3-3 25 Adopted and presented water and marine resources-related target is mandatory (based on legislation) 4.2.5.4 303-3 a Water withdrawal ESRS E3-4 AR32 Total water withdrawals 4.2.5.5 303-4 a Water discharge ESRS E3-4 AR32 Total water discharges 4.2.5.5 303-5 a Water consumption E3-4 28a Total water consumption 4.2.5.5 303-5 b Water consumption ESRS E3-4 28b AR28 Total water consumption in areas at water risk, including areas of high-water stress 4.2.5.5 303-5 d Water consumption ESRS E3-4 28e AR29 Disclosure of contextual information regarding water consumption 4.2.5.5 GRI 304 Biodiversity 2016 304-1 a-iv Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ESRS E4-5 35 Number of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that undertaking is negatively affecting 4.2.6.7 ESRS IRO-1 19a AR7d Activities negatively affecting biodiversity sensitive areas 4.2.6.3 ESRS IRO-1 Undertaking has sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas 4.2.6.2 ESRS SBM-3 16aii Breakdown of material sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive area 4.2.6.2 304-1 to 2 304-1-a-v; 304-2-b GHG emissions intensity ESRS E4-5 35 Area of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that undertaking is negatively affecting 4.2.6.7 304-2 a Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity ESRS SBM-3 16ai Activities related to sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas negatively affect these areas where conclusions or necessary mitigation measures have not been implemented or are ongoing 4.2.6.2 304-2 a-i; a-v to vi Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity ESRS E4-5 38 Disclosure of metrics considered relevant (land-use change, freshwater-use change and (or) sea-use change) 4.2.6.7 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 324 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"POLLUTION OF SOIL Emissions into soil are treated as one-time spills only. The quantification and nature of pollutants are reported in an environmental alert tool. There were no major incidents of soil contamination above the legal threshold in 2024. Three internal levels are defined to characterize accidental spills: • Level 1 – Major: volume greater than 1,000 liters • Level 2 – Intermediate: volume greater than 100 liters • Level 3 – Minor: volume less than 100 liters The impact is determined based on residual contamination after the event has been addressed. ACCIDENTAL SPILLS WITHOUT POLLUTION ABOVE THE REGULATORY THRESHOLD Number of accidental spills 2023 2024 Level 1 – Major 2 0 Level 2 – Intermediate 2 5 Level 3 – Minor 6 2 TOTAL 10 7 Impact Without contamination (contained) 100% 100% With contamination 0% 0% TOTAL 100% 100% 4.2.4.6 Performance and measures related to substances of concern and substances of very high concern (DR E2-5) For this first publication for 2024, the Group analyzed the IMDS database shared with its customers to identify substances of very high concern (SVHC) present in its products. Quantities of these substances were estimated by multiplying them by the corresponding sales volumes to calculate the total weight per substance. An adjustment factor was applied in order to cover the full scope. The reliability of the reported data has been verified. To improve the reliability of information published, the methodology will be progressively refined, and additional controls will be implemented in the coming years. [ESRS E2 § 32] - [ESRS E2 § 34] TOTAL QUANTITY OF SUBSTANCES OF VERY HIGH CONCERN IN PRODUCTS, BROKEN DOWN BY THE MAIN HAZARD CLASSES OF SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN (t) 2024 CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic 151 ED: EnDocrine disruptor for human health or the environment. 0.408 PBT: Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic 40 vPvB: very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative 0 PMT: Persistent, Mobile and Toxic 0 vPvM: very Persistent, very Mobile 0 SVHC: substances of very high concern without label 2 TOTAL 193 Valeo has policies and tools designed to ensure that its products and those of its suppliers comply with the requirements of European regulations on the use of regulated chemicals. For example, the Group's entire portfolio complies with applicable regulations, in particular Regulation 1907/2006 (REACH) and the End-of-Life Vehicle (ELV) Directive via the International Material Data System (IMDS), the automotive industry's benchmark platform for collecting material data at every stage of the value chain for all components. The total number of substances of very high concern represents around 0.01% of the product weight. Valeo aims to reduce the use of such substances wherever possible. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 243"
"[ESRS E2 § 35] TOTAL QUANTITY OF SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN GENERATED, OR USED IN PRODUCTION OR PURCHASED, BROKEN DOWN BY THE MAIN HAZARD CLASSES OF SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN (t) 2024 CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic 735 ED: EnDocrine disruptor for human health or the environment Data not available PBT: Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic Data not available vPvB: very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative Data not available PMT: Persistent, Mobile and Toxic Data not available vPvM: very Persistent, very Mobile Data not available TOTAL 735 For 2024, the Group is not able to collect and disclose data relating to the quantities of substances of concern or to provide details on the total quantities. However, due to the nature of Valeo’s activities, the risk of finding substances classified as non-CMR in the products used is considered negligible. 4.2.4.7 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks, and opportunities (DR E2-6) The CSRD allows companies to omit the information prescribed by ESRS E2-6(1) for the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on its anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities. [ESRS E2 § 40] To date, operating expenses and capital expenditure incurred in connection with major deposits and incidents are not automatically identifiable in the Group's accounting tools. Valeo is therefore unable to report this information in respect of 2024. A process for identifying pollution-related OpEx and CapEx will be implemented in 2025. 4.2.5 Water resources (ESRS E3) 4.2.5.1 Identification and assessment of material water-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E3 – WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES Water Risk of failing to limit water withdrawal in areas of water stress, with a negative impact on the environment and financial consequences for the operations of the most exposed production sites. Water Risk of failing to control water consumption for domestic or industrial use, with a negative impact on the environment and financial consequences for the operations of the most exposed production sites. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 244 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) With the exception of the information required by paragraph 40(b) on operating expenses and capital expenditures incurred during the reporting period in conjunction with major incidents and deposits."
"Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E3 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). Based on an analysis conducted in 2021 with an external consultant, the list of sites exposed to the risk of water stress, or even to risks of water restrictions, water shortages or water cuts by 2030, 2040 and 2050 has been updated. It is based on two IPCC global warming scenarios, SSP2 4.5 and SSP5 8.5, reasonably optimistic and reasonably pessimistic respectively (see section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks”, paragraph “Physical risks – Analysis methodology”, page 219). Given the importance of this resource, the Group aims to limit withdrawals, control its water consumption, and ensure the supply of good quality water for its staff. Due to their geographic location, some Valeo sites may be exposed to water cuts or restrictions resulting from: • a municipal/regional decision in the event of a drought; • a shortage of water sources supplying the site (public network, groundwater); • poor water quality (wells, groundwater); • a restriction imposed by local authorities in the event of overconsumption; • the lack of a water recovery system; • the absence of internal treatment and recycling; • the absence of a closed-loop water circuit. The main water-related risk factors are coastal flooding, river flooding and water stress. Data are from Aqueduct (WRI(1)), from JBA), with a resolution of less than 1 km, and demand and supply are assessed using the IIASA(2) Water Futures and Solutions (WFaS) and ISIMIP(3) models. In addition, all existing and newly acquired Valeo sites are subject to analysis by a specialized external firm. This water-related due diligence covers the following risk metrics: wastewater discharge, impact on soil and groundwater, site location and surrounding land use, site utilities (including water supply and network, wastewater discharge and treatment, rainwater discharge and drainage, fire protection facilities and water supply), hydrology and hydrogeology (including surface watercourses closest to the site, national water quality standard and shallow groundwater). Each year, Valeo assesses its suppliers’ sustainability practices through a self-assessment questionnaire that includes a section on water management (see section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing”, page 293). [ESRS E3 § 8] Due to the location of the Group’s sites and the nature of its activities, water consumption and discharges have not impacted local communities to date. 4.2.5.2 Policies related to water (DR E3-1) The risk of water stress is increasing in many geographic areas relative to the local capacity to renew water reserves due to: • changes in global water demand (particularly in the United States, China and India); • the effects of global warming. Under the impetus of the Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Director, Valeo applies the following water management policy to all its activities, sites, employees and subcontractors: • performance of an environmental risk assessment before any acquisition or leasing of land or buildings, notably to determine the potential level of water stress of the future site locations; • preparation of a water supply and distribution network plan, identifying its isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, distinguishing between domestic and industrial uses and uses for firefighting and drinking water. With regard to drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied from an external source (preferably the public network) and be protected against the risk of contamination by other networks; • encouragement of the use of non-drinking water wherever possible (toilets, irrigation, cleaning, firefighting, etc.); • installation of systems for determining the volume of water consumed by use (domestic, industrial, firefighting) for each water supply source; • completion of water cycle studies to fine-tune the identification of water losses related to processes, evaporation or water leaks in pipes; • work to prevent leaks attributable to aging equipment; • development of on-site water treatment processes to recover and reuse water internally; • rainwater collection. However, events such as local restrictions due to heat waves, scarcity of water sources or poor water quality can affect access to water resources, which is why it is so important for many of the Group’s sites to reduce not only their consumption but also the absolute amount of water they withdraw. The Valeo 4R circular economy program designs products and services to minimize water consumption and to treat and recycle industrial water internally. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 245 (1) Word Resources Institute (WRI): environmental research organization. (2) International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA): International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis. Interdisciplinary research institute working in areas such as sustainable development, climate change, etc. (3) Inter-Sectoral Impact Model Intercomparison Project (ISIMIP): cross-sector impact model comparison project providing a framework for compiling a set of simulations based on historical and future scientific scenarios as a basis for climate impact projections."
"The Group ensures compliance with all applicable laws and adheres to recognized norms and standards relevant to its operations, meeting all compliance requirements. Valeo is committed to conducting its business in a manner that contributes to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, notably by contributing to sustainable water management in the communities where it operates. The Group is committed to disclosing relevant water management metrics and targets in accordance with global reporting standards. The full understanding and implementation of the water management policy at site level is assessed through a questionnaire issued by the HSE Department and Internal Control Department and submitted to site managers. The policy’s effectiveness is then measured on a regular basis, site by site, using metrics linked to the quantity of water withdrawn and the quality of water discharged into the natural environment, with strict specifications depending on the configuration of the various sites. In this way, the Group is committed to reducing its water footprint and contributing to a more sustainable future for mobility. 4.2.5.3 Actions and resources related to water (DR E3-2) Sustainable water management: recommendations for industrial and domestic sites The Group aims to control and minimize water consumption at its sites as much as possible, by leveraging appropriate human and material resources in line with its policy: • control and reduce leakage attributable to aging equipment and pipes; • control water supply and distribution networks with isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, differentiated by: • domestic use (if separate from drinking water); • industrial uses, • use for firefighting; • drinking water. For drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied externally (public mains network preferably), and water networks must be protected from the risk of contamination by other networks. To minimize water consumption, sites are urged to take action on both their industrial and domestic consumption: • increasing the frequency of water consumption readings from quarterly to monthly; • identifying the respective needs in regard to each of the main uses of water; • optimizing consumption by integrating water saving aspects that can be factored into the purchasing decision for new equipment; • optimizing washing operations by switching to closed-loop equipment with water treatment and reuse; • setting up recycling systems such as recovering discharge water from cooling towers; • recovering condensate water from closed circuits; • reusing water from washing floors and equipment; • replacing evaporative aerothermal cooling towers with adiabatic towers or air-cooled cooling towers; • reducing domestic water consumption by reducing pressure, installing sensor taps, recycling shower water for use in toilets, installing dual flush toilets, and collecting rainwater. Sustainable water management: measures taken to address the risks of water restrictions, shortages and cuts Prior to the purchase or lease of land or buildings, the Group requires that an environmental risk assessment be carried out in order to determine, among other things, the level of water stress of future site locations. To mitigate the effects of periods of water stress, initiatives have been undertaken to optimize water consumption and withdrawal, to equip sites with reservoirs to prepare for periods of water stress, and to secure processes and fire protection for buildings. Sustainable water management: status and progress of water management programs The main actions of the water management program implemented are as follows: • Shenzhen: Switch to air-cooled towers and deployment of sub-meters to control on-site water consumption; • Penang: Finalization of the installation of sensors for detailed consumption analysis; • Guangzhou: Switch to air-cooled towers; • Chonburi: Rainwater collection study underway; • Rio, Ben Arous, Enfidha, Juarez, Cairo: Domestic water measures; • Sanand: Repair of the wastewater treatment plant; • Chennai: Construction of a wastewater treatment plant; • Mondovi, Shenyang, Nanjing Daegu 1: Renovation of the water supply network; • Amiens: Replacement of the open-water cooling tower with an adiabatic cooler; • Campinas: Installation of 30 sub-meters; • Étaples: Cooling tower ventilation control based on outside temperature to reduce evaporation; • Étaples, Campinas: Atmospheric breakers. Overall, the use of closed-loop mold cooling is becoming more widespread across the Group (67% of sites in 2024). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 246 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Sustainable water management: actions planned for the future Water management program The Group will reinforce its efforts to reduce water consumption with the publication of a Water Manual. It contains best practices in water consumption analysis and reduction, as well as examples of financing. The External Affairs Department is exploring opportunities for financing programs in China, Poland, Mexico and India. A dedicated webinar for sites is currently being rolled out. Water quality With respect to water quality, the Group plans to: • add 25 new substances to the list of substances monitored by the Group; • reduce the maximum concentration values for several pollutants; • develop a single methodology for measuring and monitoring antimicrobial genes; • request additional information at site level; • increase the pace of updates of pollutant lists to keep up with scientific developments; • use the LEAP (Locate, Evaluate, Assess, Prepare) approach; • define target-setting standards in agreement with Divisions and sites (in case of a change in scope, the reference may be revised). 4.2.5.4 Targets related to water (DR E3-3) [ESRS E3 § 23] Valeo does not currently have specific targets for its sites located in areas of high-water stress. Specific targets will be set for the next period (2025-2030). The aim of such targets is to limit the risk associated with the availability of water resources, for example by promoting the use of recycled water on site and by controlling water withdrawal. [ESRS E3 § 25] Targets The Group has voluntarily set two targets to limit the risk associated with water withdrawals in high-risk areas: • water withdrawal intensity: the aim of this target is to reduce water withdrawals. The Group has elected to use an intensity criterion in order to dissociate outcomes from business development. The target intensity had been set at 185 cu.m/ million euros for 2025; • the number of sites with groundwater withdrawals: the aim of this indicator is to minimize the number of sites with direct groundwater withdrawals. However, groundwater is the only available source for some sites. The Group’s net water consumption, including wastewater, is being reported for the first time for 2024. The Group plans to set new water consumption targets for 2030. Historically, water withdrawal reduction targets have been set at Group level, based on two criteria: first, individual criteria for the biggest water consumers; and second, a geographic criterion for sites in areas of high water stress. Expected outcomes The Group’s water management program focuses on sites representing 50% of total water withdrawals in order to reduce not only the intensity of water withdrawals, but also the absolute value of water withdrawals. In 2024, the number of sites using groundwater was reduced from 17 to 14. Due to supply constraints and the absence of public networks, 14 wells have been maintained across the Group. In 2024, Valeo confirms the achievement of its 2025 objectives in terms of intensity and reduction in absolute terms. New, more ambitious targets have been set for 2030. 4.2.5.5 Water consumption (DR E3-4) In 2024, for the first year, the Valeo Group reported a net consumption of 790,451 cu.m. of water, taking into account volumes withdrawn and discharged. WATER WITHDRAWALS, DISCHARGES AND CONSUMPTION Unit 2019 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 2025 target TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION cu.m ND ND 790,451 Total water consumption in areas of water stress, including areas of high-water stress; cu.m ND ND 277,030 Total water recycled and reused cu.m ND ND 292,220 Total water stored ND ND NS Changes in water storage ND ND NS Water consumption intensity ratio cu.m/€m ND ND 37 Water withdrawal intensity ratio cu.m/€m 197 148 121 -18% 185 Total water withdrawn cu.m 3,697,803 3,027,288 2,609,927 -14 % < 3,000,000 Total water discharged cu.m ND ND 1,819,476 The -14% drop in the absolute value of water withdrawals compared with 2023 is the result of the Group’s mobilization around a water management program launched in 2019, which aims to control and reduce withdrawals, detect and eliminate leaks and the use of open-loop water, and prohibit groundwater withdrawals for industrial use. Through the quarterly sharing of best practices, on-site water treatment and reuse solutions are promoted and adopted. The overall water withdrawal intensity ratio decreased by 18% to 121 cu.m./million euros in 2024. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 247"
"Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E3 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). Based on an analysis conducted in 2021 with an external consultant, the list of sites exposed to the risk of water stress, or even to risks of water restrictions, water shortages or water cuts by 2030, 2040 and 2050 has been updated. It is based on two IPCC global warming scenarios, SSP2 4.5 and SSP5 8.5, reasonably optimistic and reasonably pessimistic respectively (see section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks”, paragraph “Physical risks – Analysis methodology”, page 219). Given the importance of this resource, the Group aims to limit withdrawals, control its water consumption, and ensure the supply of good quality water for its staff. Due to their geographic location, some Valeo sites may be exposed to water cuts or restrictions resulting from: • a municipal/regional decision in the event of a drought; • a shortage of water sources supplying the site (public network, groundwater); • poor water quality (wells, groundwater); • a restriction imposed by local authorities in the event of overconsumption; • the lack of a water recovery system; • the absence of internal treatment and recycling; • the absence of a closed-loop water circuit. The main water-related risk factors are coastal flooding, river flooding and water stress. Data are from Aqueduct (WRI(1)), from JBA), with a resolution of less than 1 km, and demand and supply are assessed using the IIASA(2) Water Futures and Solutions (WFaS) and ISIMIP(3) models. In addition, all existing and newly acquired Valeo sites are subject to analysis by a specialized external firm. This water-related due diligence covers the following risk metrics: wastewater discharge, impact on soil and groundwater, site location and surrounding land use, site utilities (including water supply and network, wastewater discharge and treatment, rainwater discharge and drainage, fire protection facilities and water supply), hydrology and hydrogeology (including surface watercourses closest to the site, national water quality standard and shallow groundwater). Each year, Valeo assesses its suppliers’ sustainability practices through a self-assessment questionnaire that includes a section on water management (see section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing”, page 293). [ESRS E3 § 8] Due to the location of the Group’s sites and the nature of its activities, water consumption and discharges have not impacted local communities to date. 4.2.5.2 Policies related to water (DR E3-1) The risk of water stress is increasing in many geographic areas relative to the local capacity to renew water reserves due to: • changes in global water demand (particularly in the United States, China and India); • the effects of global warming. Under the impetus of the Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Director, Valeo applies the following water management policy to all its activities, sites, employees and subcontractors: • performance of an environmental risk assessment before any acquisition or leasing of land or buildings, notably to determine the potential level of water stress of the future site locations; • preparation of a water supply and distribution network plan, identifying its isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, distinguishing between domestic and industrial uses and uses for firefighting and drinking water. With regard to drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied from an external source (preferably the public network) and be protected against the risk of contamination by other networks; • encouragement of the use of non-drinking water wherever possible (toilets, irrigation, cleaning, firefighting, etc.); • installation of systems for determining the volume of water consumed by use (domestic, industrial, firefighting) for each water supply source; • completion of water cycle studies to fine-tune the identification of water losses related to processes, evaporation or water leaks in pipes; • work to prevent leaks attributable to aging equipment; • development of on-site water treatment processes to recover and reuse water internally; • rainwater collection. However, events such as local restrictions due to heat waves, scarcity of water sources or poor water quality can affect access to water resources, which is why it is so important for many of the Group’s sites to reduce not only their consumption but also the absolute amount of water they withdraw. The Valeo 4R circular economy program designs products and services to minimize water consumption and to treat and recycle industrial water internally. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 245 (1) Word Resources Institute (WRI): environmental research organization. (2) International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA): International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis. Interdisciplinary research institute working in areas such as sustainable development, climate change, etc. (3) Inter-Sectoral Impact Model Intercomparison Project (ISIMIP): cross-sector impact model comparison project providing a framework for compiling a set of simulations based on historical and future scientific scenarios as a basis for climate impact projections."
"The Group ensures compliance with all applicable laws and adheres to recognized norms and standards relevant to its operations, meeting all compliance requirements. Valeo is committed to conducting its business in a manner that contributes to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, notably by contributing to sustainable water management in the communities where it operates. The Group is committed to disclosing relevant water management metrics and targets in accordance with global reporting standards. The full understanding and implementation of the water management policy at site level is assessed through a questionnaire issued by the HSE Department and Internal Control Department and submitted to site managers. The policy’s effectiveness is then measured on a regular basis, site by site, using metrics linked to the quantity of water withdrawn and the quality of water discharged into the natural environment, with strict specifications depending on the configuration of the various sites. In this way, the Group is committed to reducing its water footprint and contributing to a more sustainable future for mobility. 4.2.5.3 Actions and resources related to water (DR E3-2) Sustainable water management: recommendations for industrial and domestic sites The Group aims to control and minimize water consumption at its sites as much as possible, by leveraging appropriate human and material resources in line with its policy: • control and reduce leakage attributable to aging equipment and pipes; • control water supply and distribution networks with isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, differentiated by: • domestic use (if separate from drinking water); • industrial uses, • use for firefighting; • drinking water. For drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied externally (public mains network preferably), and water networks must be protected from the risk of contamination by other networks. To minimize water consumption, sites are urged to take action on both their industrial and domestic consumption: • increasing the frequency of water consumption readings from quarterly to monthly; • identifying the respective needs in regard to each of the main uses of water; • optimizing consumption by integrating water saving aspects that can be factored into the purchasing decision for new equipment; • optimizing washing operations by switching to closed-loop equipment with water treatment and reuse; • setting up recycling systems such as recovering discharge water from cooling towers; • recovering condensate water from closed circuits; • reusing water from washing floors and equipment; • replacing evaporative aerothermal cooling towers with adiabatic towers or air-cooled cooling towers; • reducing domestic water consumption by reducing pressure, installing sensor taps, recycling shower water for use in toilets, installing dual flush toilets, and collecting rainwater. Sustainable water management: measures taken to address the risks of water restrictions, shortages and cuts Prior to the purchase or lease of land or buildings, the Group requires that an environmental risk assessment be carried out in order to determine, among other things, the level of water stress of future site locations. To mitigate the effects of periods of water stress, initiatives have been undertaken to optimize water consumption and withdrawal, to equip sites with reservoirs to prepare for periods of water stress, and to secure processes and fire protection for buildings. Sustainable water management: status and progress of water management programs The main actions of the water management program implemented are as follows: • Shenzhen: Switch to air-cooled towers and deployment of sub-meters to control on-site water consumption; • Penang: Finalization of the installation of sensors for detailed consumption analysis; • Guangzhou: Switch to air-cooled towers; • Chonburi: Rainwater collection study underway; • Rio, Ben Arous, Enfidha, Juarez, Cairo: Domestic water measures; • Sanand: Repair of the wastewater treatment plant; • Chennai: Construction of a wastewater treatment plant; • Mondovi, Shenyang, Nanjing Daegu 1: Renovation of the water supply network; • Amiens: Replacement of the open-water cooling tower with an adiabatic cooler; • Campinas: Installation of 30 sub-meters; • Étaples: Cooling tower ventilation control based on outside temperature to reduce evaporation; • Étaples, Campinas: Atmospheric breakers. Overall, the use of closed-loop mold cooling is becoming more widespread across the Group (67% of sites in 2024). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 246 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Sustainable water management: actions planned for the future Water management program The Group will reinforce its efforts to reduce water consumption with the publication of a Water Manual. It contains best practices in water consumption analysis and reduction, as well as examples of financing. The External Affairs Department is exploring opportunities for financing programs in China, Poland, Mexico and India. A dedicated webinar for sites is currently being rolled out. Water quality With respect to water quality, the Group plans to: • add 25 new substances to the list of substances monitored by the Group; • reduce the maximum concentration values for several pollutants; • develop a single methodology for measuring and monitoring antimicrobial genes; • request additional information at site level; • increase the pace of updates of pollutant lists to keep up with scientific developments; • use the LEAP (Locate, Evaluate, Assess, Prepare) approach; • define target-setting standards in agreement with Divisions and sites (in case of a change in scope, the reference may be revised). 4.2.5.4 Targets related to water (DR E3-3) [ESRS E3 § 23] Valeo does not currently have specific targets for its sites located in areas of high-water stress. Specific targets will be set for the next period (2025-2030). The aim of such targets is to limit the risk associated with the availability of water resources, for example by promoting the use of recycled water on site and by controlling water withdrawal. [ESRS E3 § 25] Targets The Group has voluntarily set two targets to limit the risk associated with water withdrawals in high-risk areas: • water withdrawal intensity: the aim of this target is to reduce water withdrawals. The Group has elected to use an intensity criterion in order to dissociate outcomes from business development. The target intensity had been set at 185 cu.m/ million euros for 2025; • the number of sites with groundwater withdrawals: the aim of this indicator is to minimize the number of sites with direct groundwater withdrawals. However, groundwater is the only available source for some sites. The Group’s net water consumption, including wastewater, is being reported for the first time for 2024. The Group plans to set new water consumption targets for 2030. Historically, water withdrawal reduction targets have been set at Group level, based on two criteria: first, individual criteria for the biggest water consumers; and second, a geographic criterion for sites in areas of high water stress. Expected outcomes The Group’s water management program focuses on sites representing 50% of total water withdrawals in order to reduce not only the intensity of water withdrawals, but also the absolute value of water withdrawals. In 2024, the number of sites using groundwater was reduced from 17 to 14. Due to supply constraints and the absence of public networks, 14 wells have been maintained across the Group. In 2024, Valeo confirms the achievement of its 2025 objectives in terms of intensity and reduction in absolute terms. New, more ambitious targets have been set for 2030. 4.2.5.5 Water consumption (DR E3-4) In 2024, for the first year, the Valeo Group reported a net consumption of 790,451 cu.m. of water, taking into account volumes withdrawn and discharged. WATER WITHDRAWALS, DISCHARGES AND CONSUMPTION Unit 2019 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 2025 target TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION cu.m ND ND 790,451 Total water consumption in areas of water stress, including areas of high-water stress; cu.m ND ND 277,030 Total water recycled and reused cu.m ND ND 292,220 Total water stored ND ND NS Changes in water storage ND ND NS Water consumption intensity ratio cu.m/€m ND ND 37 Water withdrawal intensity ratio cu.m/€m 197 148 121 -18% 185 Total water withdrawn cu.m 3,697,803 3,027,288 2,609,927 -14 % < 3,000,000 Total water discharged cu.m ND ND 1,819,476 The -14% drop in the absolute value of water withdrawals compared with 2023 is the result of the Group’s mobilization around a water management program launched in 2019, which aims to control and reduce withdrawals, detect and eliminate leaks and the use of open-loop water, and prohibit groundwater withdrawals for industrial use. Through the quarterly sharing of best practices, on-site water treatment and reuse solutions are promoted and adopted. The overall water withdrawal intensity ratio decreased by 18% to 121 cu.m./million euros in 2024. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 247"
"Methodological details and definitions of metrics The amount of water consumed is determined by the amount of water withdrawn and the amount of water discharged, with or without treatment, in accordance with the expectations of ESRS E3-4. Water withdrawals include water from the public supply network, groundwater, surface water and rainwater collected on all Valeo Group sites. The measurement of water discharge was added to the reporting process in 2023 and includes water discharged to third parties or into a natural environment. Calculations of water consumption, discharges and withdrawals are based on actual data. Water consumption is calculated by subtracting water discharges from water withdrawals. To obtain a breakdown of the various metrics for areas of high- and extremely high-water stress, sites were classified using the WRI Aqueduct V4 tool. The Group records the amount of water treated on-site, recycled and reused in production. Stored water has been deliberately excluded from metrics as it represents immaterial volumes (firewater). Water intensity is measured using two numerators: • water consumption in accordance with ESRS E3-4; • water withdrawal to provide data comparable with those observed in previous reference periods. [ESRS E3 § 28] For withdrawals, 100% of data is from actual measurements. For water discharges, 40% of data is from actual discharge measurements, and 60% from estimates. 4.2.5.6 Anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR E3-5) The CSRD allows companies to omit the information prescribed by ESRS E3-5 for the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on its anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities. To date, the Group's water-related operating expenses and capital expenditure are not automatically identifiable in its accounting systems. Valeo is therefore unable to report this information in respect of 2024. However, a process for identifying these OpEx and CapEx will be implemented in 2025. 4.2.6 Biodiversity (ESRS E4) 4.2.6.1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (DR E4-1) [ESRS E4 § 13] At this stage, the Group has not conducted a resilience analysis of its strategy and economic model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems, as it does not have a direct dependence on natural resources that could be affected by systemic, physical and transition risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E4 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 248 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"4.2.6.2 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (DR SBM 3) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E4 – BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS Biodiversity and ecosystems Limited negative impact on biodiversity due to the Group’s activities and value chain operations. Biodiversity and ecosystems The financial and reputational impact of an event on biodiversity resulting from the Group’s activities and value chain operations is considered to be limited. [ESRS E4 § 16] To more accurately understand its potential impacts, the Group conducts an annual biodiversity inventory at plants located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas using the database made available by the Key Biodiversity Areas Programme. Fifteen production sites and R&D centers out of Valeo’s consolidated sites have been identified as being located within 10 km of an area where an IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) Red List ""endangered"" or ""critically endangered"" species has its natural habitat: seven in Asia, five in Africa, two in Europe and one in Central America. Five of these sites are located within one kilometer of such an area: three in Africa, one in Asia and one in Europe. However, the activities of these Valeo sites are not likely to significantly alter ecological processes: there is no impact in terms of land degradation, desertification, deforestation or soil sealing, nor do their operations have a direct impact on threatened species. The upstream value chain has been analyzed using the ENCORE tool. Few of the Group’s products are currently biosourced. However, with the growing demand for recyclability, Valeo will be vigilant about the supply of biosourced materials. To conduct these analyses, Valeo used the LEAP approach, which is described in detail in section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems”. 4.2.6.3 Identification and assessment of material impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities relating to biodiversity (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) [ESRS E4 § 17] Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. The identification and assessment of actual and potential impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems for the Group’s sites was performed using the LEAP methodology (as described in section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity”, page 250). The analysis of actual and potential impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain is included in the actions to be taken. Dependencies on biodiversity, ecosystems and ecosystem services were identified and assessed using the LEAP methodology (see section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity”, page 250). The identification and assessment of transition risks, physical risks and opportunities are included in the list of actions to be taken following analyses initiated in 2024. In 2024, the Group established a biodiversity governance structure and carried out an initial analysis with an external firm based on public data in order to understand the materiality of the subject. A more detailed and substantiated analysis will be carried out in 2025 with an external expert in the field. No consultation with local communities affected by Valeo’s activities has taken place at this stage. [ESRS E4 § 19] The Group has begun analyzing the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities for its own operations and for its value chain, using the LEAP approach (see section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems”, page 250). Several tools are used for this analysis: • the KBA and IUCN databases which make it possible to identify sites located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas; • the ENCORE tool for value chain analysis. To date, it has not been deemed necessary to implement biodiversity impact mitigation measures such as those defined in Directive 2009/147/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conservation of wild birds. For more details on sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas, see section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 249). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 249"
"4.5 Appendices Appendix 1 – Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56) ESRS 2 BP-1 General basis for preparation of the sustainability statements 4.1.1.1 4.1.1.2 187 ESRS 2 BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 4.1.1.3 190 ESRS 2 GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-1 21 (d) The Board's gender diversity x x 4.1.2.1 191 ESRS 2 GOV-2 Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking's administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-2 21 (e) Percentage of independent board members x 4.1.2.2 193 ESRS 2 GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.1.2.3 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-4 30 Statement on due diligence x 4.1.2.4 194 ESRS 2 GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting 4.1.2.5 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain 4.1.3.1 195 ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) i Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities x x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) ii Involvement in activities related to chemical production x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iii Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-1 40 (d) iv Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.1.3.2 195 ESRS 2 SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.1.3.3 200 ESRS 2 IRO-1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 4.1.4.1 201 ESRS 2 IRO-2 Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s sustainability statement 4.1.4.2 203 ESRS 2 GOV-3 E1 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 4.2.3.1 217 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 298 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 14 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 x 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 16 (g) Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned benchmarks x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-3 E1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.3.2 218 ESRS 2 IRO-1 E1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.3 219 ESRS E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.5 227 ESRS E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 4.2.3.6 228 ESRS E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.7 229 ESRS E1-4 34 GHG emission reduction targets x x x 4.2.3.7 230 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 38 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 37 Energy consumption and mix x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 40-43 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors x 4.2.3.8 234 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 234 ESRS E1-6 44 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions x x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-6 53-55 Gross GHG emissions intensity x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-7 GHG absorption and mitigation projects financed through carbon credits Not applicable ESRS E1-7 56 GHG removals and carbon credits x Not applicable ESRS E1-8 Internal carbon pricing 4.2.3.10 236 ESRS E1-9 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 66 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks x 4.2.3.11 236 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 299"
"ESRS E1-9 66 (a); 66 (c) Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk Location of significant assets at material physical risk x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 67 (c) Breakdown of the carrying value of the undertaking's real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 69 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate-related opportunities x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS IRO-1 E2 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.1 236 ESRS E2-1 Policies related to pollution 4.2.4.2 237 ESRS E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 239 ESRS E2-3 Targets related to pollution 4.2.4.4 241 ESRS E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-4 28 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil x 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 4.2.4.6 243 ESRS E2-6 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.7 244 ESRS IRO-1 E3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 244 ESRS E3-1 Policies related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 9 Water and marine resources x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 13 Dedicated policy x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 14 Sustainable oceans and seas x Not applicable ESRS E3-2 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 246 ESRS E3-3 Targets related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.4 247 ESRS E3-4 Number of accidents with lost time 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 28 (c) Total percentage of water recycled and reused x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 29 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-5 Anticipated financial effects from water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.6 248 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 300 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 4.2.6.1 248 ESRS 2-SBM-3 E4 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (a) i Activities negatively affecting biodiversity-sensitive areas x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (b) Breakdown of sites according to impacts and dependencies x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (c) Biodiversity-sensitive areas affected x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS IRO-1 E4 Description of the processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.3 249 ESRS E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-2 24 (b) Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (c) Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (d) Policy to prevent deforestation x 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 250 ESRS E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.6 251 ESRS E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 4.2.6.7 251 ESRS E4-6 Anticipated financial effects from biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.8 251 ESRS IRO-1 E5 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.1 252 ESRS E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.1 4.2.7.3.1 4.2.7.4.1 252 ESRS E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 4.2.7.3.2 4.2.7.4.2 253 ESRS E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.3 4.2.7.3.3 4.2.7.4.3 254 ESRS E5-4 Resource inflows 4.2.7.3.4 256 ESRS E5-5 Resource outflows 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 37 (d) Non-recycled waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 39 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 301"
"ESRS E5-6 Anticipated financial effects from resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.5 259 ESRS 2 SBM-2 S1 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.3.1.1 261 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.3.1.2 261 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 14 (f) Forced labor risk x 4.3.1.2 262 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 14 (g) Child labor risk x 4.3.1.2 262 ESRS S1-1 Policies related to own workforce 4.3.1.3 263 ESRS S1-1 20 Human rights policy commitments x 4.3.1.3 263 ESRS S1-1 21 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions 1 to 8 x 4.3.1.3 267 ESRS S1-1 22 Processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings x 4.3.1.3 268 ESRS S1-1 23 Workplace accident prevention policy or management system x 4.3.1.3 266 ESRS S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers' representatives about impacts 4.3.1.4 268 ESRS S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 4.3.1.5 269 ESRS S1-3 32 (c) Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms x 4.3.1.5 270 ESRS S1-4 Taking action on material impacts, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions and approaches 4.3.1.6 270 ESRS S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 4.3.1.7 276 ESRS S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 4.3.1.8 278 ESRS S1-7 Characteristics of non-employee workers in the undertaking's own workforce 4.3.1.9 279 ESRS S1-8 Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 4.3.1.10 279 ESRS S1-9 Diversity metrics 4.3.1.11 280 ESRS S1-10 Adequate wages 4.3.1.12 280 ESRS S1-11 Social protection 4.3.1.13 280 ESRS S1-12 Persons with disabilities 4.3.1.14 280 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 302 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"3-3 e-i Management of material topics ESRS S1-4 38d AR38- AR39 Description of how effectiveness of actions and initiatives in delivering outcomes for own workforce is tracked and assessed 4.3.1.6 3-3 e-ii; Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation ESRS E1-4 33 Disclosure of how GHG emissions reduction targets and (or) any other targets have been set to manage material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.7 3-3 f Management of material topics ESRS S1-2 27 Disclosure of whether and how perspectives of own workforce inform decisions or activities aimed at managing actual and potential impacts 4.3.1.4 ESRS S1-4 39 AR34 Description of process through which it identifies what action is needed and appropriate in response to particular actual or potential negative impact on own workforce 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-5 47b Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in tracking performance against targets 4.3.1.7 ESRS S1-5 47c Disclosure of whether and how own workforce or workforce' representatives were engaged directly in identifying lessons or improvements as result of undertaking’s performance 4.3.1.7 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-a Management of material topics ESRS SBM-3 14b Material negative impacts occurrence (own workforce) 4.3.1.2 ESRS SBM-3 14c Description of activities that result in positive impacts and types of employees and non-employees in its own workforce that are positively affected or could be positively affected 4.3.1.2 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-d Management of material topics ESRS E3-2 18 Layer in mitigation hierarchy to which action and resources can be allocated to (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.3 ESRS S1-4 43 Disclosure of resources allocated to the management of material impacts 4.3.1.6 ESRS S1-4 AR48 Description of internal functions that are involved in managing impacts and types of action taken by internal functions to address negative and advance positive impacts 4.3.1.6 3-3 Guidance to 3-3-e-ii Management of material topics ESRS E1-4 34e-16a AR26 GHG emission reduction target is science based and compatible with limiting global warming to one and half degrees Celsius 4.2.3.7 ESRS E2-3 25 Pollution-related target is mandatory (required by legislation)/voluntary 4.2.4.4 3-3; 303-1, 303-1c Management of material topics; Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-2 17 AR19- AR21 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 GRI 3; 306 Material Topics 2021; Waste 2020 3-3; 306-2 306-2-a Management of material topics; Management of significant waste-related impacts ESRS E5-2 19 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 GRI 3; 403 Material Topics 2021; Occupational Health and Safety 2018 3-3; 403-9 to 10 3-3- d-I; 403-9- c-iii; 403-9-d; 403-10- c-iii Management of material topics; Work-related injuries; Work-related ill health ESRS S1-4 38a Description of action taken, planned or underway to prevent or mitigate negative impacts on own workforce 4.3.1.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 322 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 3; 408; 409 Material Topics 2021; Child Labor 2016; Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 3-3; 408-1; 409-1 3-3-c; 408-1-c; 409-1-b Management of material topics; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor; Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ESRS S1-1 22 Policies explicitly address trafficking in human beings, forced labor or compulsory labor and child labor 4.3.1.3 GRI 3; GRI 201 Material Topics 2021; Economic Performance 2016 3-3 201-2 a-iv to v Management of material topics; Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ESRS E1-3 28 Actions and Resources related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.6 GRI 301 Materials 2016 301-1 a Materials used by weight or volume ESRS E5-4 31a Overall total weight of products and technical and biological materials used during the reporting period 4.2.7.3.4 301-1 to 2 301-1-2.1. 4; 301-2-2.3 Materials used by weight or volume; Recycled input materials used ESRS E5-4 32 AR24 Description of methodologies used to calculate data and key assumptions used 4.2.7.3.4 GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 a Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 38a AR33 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38b AR33 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38c AR33 Fuel consumption from natural gas 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38d AR33 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 b Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37ci Fuel consumption from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37ciii Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 4.2.3.8 302-1 c Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37cii Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 38e AR33 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or cooling from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 302-1 e Energy consumption within the organization ESRS E1-5 37 AR35 Total energy consumption 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37a AR33 Total energy consumption from fossil sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37b Total energy consumption from nuclear sources 4.2.3.8 ESRS E1-5 37c Total energy consumption from renewable 4.2.3.8 302-3 a to d Energy intensity ESRS E1-5 40 AR36 Energy intensity from activities in high climate impact sectors (total energy consumption per net revenue) 4.2.3.8 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 323"
"GRI 303 Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 a to b Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS IRO-1 8a AR1- AR15 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources- related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 303-1 c Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS IRO-1 8b Disclosure of how consultations have been conducted (water and marine resources) 4.2.5.1 303-1 d Interactions with water as a shared resource ESRS E3-3 24 AR22 (Local) ecological threshold and entity-specific allocation were taken into consideration when setting water and marine resources target 4.2.5.4 ESRS E3-3 25 Adopted and presented water and marine resources-related target is mandatory (based on legislation) 4.2.5.4 303-3 a Water withdrawal ESRS E3-4 AR32 Total water withdrawals 4.2.5.5 303-4 a Water discharge ESRS E3-4 AR32 Total water discharges 4.2.5.5 303-5 a Water consumption E3-4 28a Total water consumption 4.2.5.5 303-5 b Water consumption ESRS E3-4 28b AR28 Total water consumption in areas at water risk, including areas of high-water stress 4.2.5.5 303-5 d Water consumption ESRS E3-4 28e AR29 Disclosure of contextual information regarding water consumption 4.2.5.5 GRI 304 Biodiversity 2016 304-1 a-iv Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ESRS E4-5 35 Number of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that undertaking is negatively affecting 4.2.6.7 ESRS IRO-1 19a AR7d Activities negatively affecting biodiversity sensitive areas 4.2.6.3 ESRS IRO-1 Undertaking has sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas 4.2.6.2 ESRS SBM-3 16aii Breakdown of material sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive area 4.2.6.2 304-1 to 2 304-1-a-v; 304-2-b GHG emissions intensity ESRS E4-5 35 Area of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that undertaking is negatively affecting 4.2.6.7 304-2 a Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity ESRS SBM-3 16ai Activities related to sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas negatively affect these areas where conclusions or necessary mitigation measures have not been implemented or are ongoing 4.2.6.2 304-2 a-i; a-v to vi Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity ESRS E4-5 38 Disclosure of metrics considered relevant (land-use change, freshwater-use change and (or) sea-use change) 4.2.6.7 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 324 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 a Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 48a AR43 Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 1-d; 2-d; 3-e; 5-c Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions; Reduction of GHG emissions ESRS E1-4 34c Disclosure of past progress made in meeting target before current base year 4.2.3.7 305-1 to 3 1-e to g; 2-e to g; 3-f to g Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR39b Disclosure of methodologies, significant assumptions and emissions factors used to calculate or measure GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 2.2.5; 2.4.5; 2.6.5 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR41 GHG emissions - by country, operating segments, economic activity, subsidiary, GHG category or source type 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 305-1-a; 305-2-a; 305-2-b; 305-3-a Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 44 AR39 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-1 to 3 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 44-52a AR47 Total GHG emissions (location-based) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 44-52b AR47 Total GHG emissions (market-based) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 52a AR47 Scope 2 location-based 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 52b AR47 Scope 2 market-based 4.2.3.9 305-2 a Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 49a AR45 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-2 b Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 49b AR45 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 305-3 a Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 51 AR46 Gross Scope 3 GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 325"
"305-3 d Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR46i List of Scope 3 GHG emissions categories included in inventory 4.2.3.9 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESRS E1-6 AR46d Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 AR46i Disclosure of why Scope 3 GHG emissions category has been excluded 4.2.3.9 305-4 a to c GHG emissions intensity ESRS E1-6 53 AR53 GHG emissions intensity, location-based (total GHG emissions per net revenue) 4.2.3.9 ESRS E1-6 GHG emissions intensity, market-based (total GHG emissions per net revenue) 4.2.3.9 305-5 a to d GHG emission reduction ESRS E1-4 34a-34b Absolute value of location-based Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of Scope 3 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of market-based Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 ESRS E1-4 Absolute value of total Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 4.2.3.7 305-7 2.14.2 Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 28a AR21- AR22 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 305-7 a Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 28a AR21- AR22 Emissions to air by pollutant 4.2.4.5 305-7 b to c Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions ESRS E2-4 30b Description of measurement methodologies (pollution of air, water and soil) 4.2.4.5 ESRS E2-4 30c Description of process(es) to collect data for pollution-related accounting and reporting 4.2.4.5 GRI 305-5 a GHG emission reduction ESRS E1-3 29b Achieved GHG emission reductions 4.2.3.6 GRI code GRI standard GRI category Disclosure requirement ESRS disclosure requirement Datapoint Description Section SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 326 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Appendix 5 – Table of sustainability metrics ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS E1 CLIMATE CHANGE E1-5 Energy consumption and mix Total energy consumption E1-5 37 AR35 4.2.3.8 Mwh 2,818,900 2,690,365 Total fossil energy consumption E1-5 37a AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 1,349,635 1,055,934 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption E1-5 AR34 4.2.3.8 % 48% 39% Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources E1-5 38e AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 703,210 480,294 Fuel consumption from natural gas E1-5 38c AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 540,951 487,369 Fuel consumption from other fossil sources E1-5 38d AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 72,903 68,352 Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products E1-5 38b AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh 32,571 19,919 Fuel consumption from coal and coal products E1-5 38a AR33 4.2.3.8 Mwh Not material Not material Total consumption from nuclear sources E1-5 37b 4.2.3.8 Mwh 264,555 201,883 Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption E1-5 AR34 4.2.3.8 % 9% 8% Total renewable energy consumption E1-5 37c 4.2.3.8 Mwh 1,204,710 1,432,548 Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption E1-5 AR34-AR71 4.2.3.8 % 43% 53% Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from renewable sources E1-5 37cii 4.2.3.8 Mwh 1,193,076 1,417,095 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy E1-5 37ciii 4.2.3.8 Mwh 11,634 15,453 Fuel consumption from renewable sources, including biomass E1-5 37ci 4.2.3.8 Mwh Not material Not material Non-renewable energy production E1-5 39 4.2.3.8 Mwh 0 0 Renewable energy production E1-5 39 4.2.3.8 Mwh 11,634 15,453 Net revenue from activities in high climate impact sectors E1-5 AR38b 4.2.3.8 €m 22,044 21,492 Net revenue (other) E1-5 AR38b 4.2.3.8 €m 0 0 Total net revenue (financial statements) E1-5 AR38b 4.2.3.8 €m 22,044 21,492 Total energy consumption from activities performed in sectors with high climate impact E1-5 41 4.2.3.8 Mwh 2,818,900 2,690,365 Energy intensity associated with activities performed in high climate impact sectors E1-5 40 AR36 4.2.3.8 Mwh/€m 128 125 Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section Unit 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 332 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions Total GHG emissions (location-based) E1-6 44-52a AR47 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 47,717,546 41,653,123 Total GHG emissions (market-based) E1-6 44-52b AR47 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 47,349,032 41,128,099 Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions E1-6 48a AR43 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 186,121 164,569 Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions E1-6 49a AR45 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 832,768 816,042 Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions E1-6 49b AR45 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 464,254 291,018 Total gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions E1-6 51 AR46 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 46,698,657 40,672,513 (1) Purchased goods and services E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 7,972,051 7,573,369 (2) Capital goods E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 758,820 167,420 (3) Fuel and energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 146,970 148,709 (4) Upstream transportation and distribution E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 317,095 300,889 (5) Waste generated in operations E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 28,992 27,637 (6) Business travel E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 43,426 40,807 (7) Employee commuting E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 187,757 176,688 (8) Upstream leased assets E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 0 0 (9) Downstream transportation E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 387,587 387,903 (10) Processing of sold products E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 380,000 380,000 (11) Use of sold products E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 36,155,959 30,489,590 (12) End-of-life treatment of sold products E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 320,000 320,000 (13) Downstream leased assets E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 0 0 (14) Franchises E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 0 0 (15) Investments E1-6 AR46d 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 0 659,500 Percentage of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data E1-6 AR46g 4.2.3.9 % 0% 0% Total location-based Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions E1-6 50 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 1,018,889 980,610 Total market-based Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions E1-6 50 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq. 650,375 455,586 Total GHG emissions (location-based) by net revenue E1-6 53 AR53 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq./€m 2,165 1,938 Total GHG emissions (market-based) by net revenue E1-6 53 AR53 4.2.3.9 tCO2eq./€m 2,148 1,914 Total net revenue (financial statements) E1-6 AR55 4.2.3.9 M€ 22,044 21,492 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity E1-6 AR55 4.2.3.9 M€ 22,044 21,492 Net revenue (other) E1-6 AR55 4.2.3.9 M€ 0 0 Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section Unit 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 333"
"E2 POLLUTION E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil Emissions into air E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 370,096 215,207 Total VOC emissions E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 364,467 209,396 Heavy metals – Air E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg Not material Not material HCFC E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 1,334 1,111 CFC E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 0 0 HFC E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 4,039 4,446 HALON E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg 256 254 NOx E2-4 28a AR21-22 4.2.4.5 kg Not material Not material Percentage of emissions of pollutants to water in areas at water risk E2-4 AR23c 4.2.4.5 % Not available Not material Percentage of emissions of pollutants to water in areas of high-water stress E2-4 AR23c 4.2.4.5 % Not available Not material E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern Total amounts of substances of very high concern in products E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 193 of which CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 151 of which ED: EnDocrine disruptor for human health or the environment. E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 0.408 of which PBT: Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 40 of which vPvB: very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 0 of which PMT: Persistent, Mobile and Toxic E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 0 of which vPvM: very Persistent, very Mobile E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 0 of which SVHC: substances of very high concern without label E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 2 Substances of very high concern generated or used in production E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 735 of which CMR: Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic E2-5 34 4.2.4.6 t Not available 735 E3 WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES E3-4 Water consumption Total water consumption E3-4 28a 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available 790,451 Water consumption intensity ratio E3-4 29 4.2.5.5 cu.m/€m Not available 37 Total water consumption in areas of water stress, including areas of high-water stress E3-4 28b AR28 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available 277,030 Total water withdrawn E3-4 AR32 4.2.5.5 cu.m 3,027,288 2,609,927 Water withdrawal intensity ratio E3-4 AR31 4.2.5.5 cu.m/€m 148 121 Total water discharged E3-4 AR32 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available 1,819,476 Total water recycled and reused E3-4 28c 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available 292,220 Total water stored E3-4 28d 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available Not material Changes in water storage E3-4 28d 4.2.5.5 cu.m Not available Not material E3-5 Anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section Unit 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 334 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"E4 BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS E4-5 Impact metrics tracking biodiversity change Number of sites owned, leased or managed in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas that the undertaking is negatively impacting E4-5 35 4.2.6.7 Whole number Not available 0 E5 CIRCULAR ECONOMY E5-4 Resource inflows Overall total weight of products and materials used E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 1,739 1,656 Metals E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 1,232 1,145 Resins E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 329 330 Packaging E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 108 106 Other E5-4 31a 4.2.7.3.4 kt 71 74 E5-5 Resource outflows Total amount of waste generated E5-5 37a 4.2.7.4.4 t 259,780 264,247 Recycled or reused non-hazardous waste E5-5 37b 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 220,771 Recycled non-hazardous waste E5-5 37bii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 204,999 Reused non-hazardous waste E5-5 37bi 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 2,449 Non-hazardous waste - other recovery operations E5-5 37biii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 13,324 Disposed of non-hazardous waste E5-5 37c 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 19,105 Landfilled non-hazardous waste E5-5 37cii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 12,803 Incinerated non-hazardous waste E5-5 37ci 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 6,302 Non-hazardous waste - other disposal operations E5-5 37ciii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 0 Total hazardous waste E5-5 39 4.2.7.4.4 t 28,249 24,371 Recycled or reused hazardous waste E5-5 37b 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 16,576 Recycled hazardous waste E5-5 37bii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 9,996 Reused hazardous waste E5-5 37bi 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 0 Hazardous waste - other recovery operations E5-5 37biii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 6,580 Disposed of hazardous waste E5-5 37c 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 7,794 Landfilled hazardous waste E5-5 37cii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 1,955 Incinerated hazardous waste E5-5 37ci 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 5,839 Hazardous waste - other disposal operations E5-5 37ciii 4.2.7.4.4 t Not available 0 Total non-recycled waste E5-5 37d 4.2.7.4.4 t 24,519 26,899 Percentage of non-recycled waste E5-5 37d 4.2.7.4.4 % 9% 10% Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section Unit 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 335"
"SOCIAL METRICS S1 OWN WORKFORCE S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees* FTE Physical headcount Number of employees S1-6 50a/50a AR57 4.3.1.8 100,739 95,284 Women 33% 30,510 Men 67% 64,767 Not reported 7 Average number of employees S1-6 50a/50a AR57 4.3.1.8 98,289 Women 31,479 Men 66,803 Not reported 7 Number of employees in countries with 50 or more employees representing at least 10% of total employees S1-6 50a/50a AR57 4.3.1.8 China 14,507 Mexico 12,925 France 12,382 10,854 Average number of employees in countries with 50 or more employees representing at least 10% of total employees S1-6 50a/50a AR57 4.3.1.8 China 14,704 Mexico 13,080 France 11,146 Number of employees by type of contract and by gender S1-6 50b 4.3.1.8 Permanent S1-6 50b-51 4.3.1.8 87,601 85,895 Women 27,439 Men 58,449 Not reported 7 Temporary S1-6 50b-51 4.3.1.8 13,138 9,389 Women 3,071 Men 6,318 Not reported 0 Number of full-time employees S1-6 52a 4.3.1.8 93,298 Women 29,304 Men 63,987 Not reported 7 Number of part-time employees S1-6 52b 4.3.1.8 1,986 Women 1,206 Men 780 Not reported 0 Number of employees by region S1-6 51 4.3.1.8 Europe 35% 40,260 Permanent S1-6 51 4.3.1.8 38,988 Temporary S1-6 51 4.3.1.8 1,272 Full-time S1-6 52a 4.3.1.8 38,326 Part-time S1-6 52b 4.3.1.8 1,934 Asia 25% 29,612 Metrics Disclosure Requirement Chapter/section 2023 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 336 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"The Group ensures compliance with all applicable laws and adheres to recognized norms and standards relevant to its operations, meeting all compliance requirements. Valeo is committed to conducting its business in a manner that contributes to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, notably by contributing to sustainable water management in the communities where it operates. The Group is committed to disclosing relevant water management metrics and targets in accordance with global reporting standards. The full understanding and implementation of the water management policy at site level is assessed through a questionnaire issued by the HSE Department and Internal Control Department and submitted to site managers. The policy’s effectiveness is then measured on a regular basis, site by site, using metrics linked to the quantity of water withdrawn and the quality of water discharged into the natural environment, with strict specifications depending on the configuration of the various sites. In this way, the Group is committed to reducing its water footprint and contributing to a more sustainable future for mobility. 4.2.5.3 Actions and resources related to water (DR E3-2) Sustainable water management: recommendations for industrial and domestic sites The Group aims to control and minimize water consumption at its sites as much as possible, by leveraging appropriate human and material resources in line with its policy: • control and reduce leakage attributable to aging equipment and pipes; • control water supply and distribution networks with isolation systems, backflow preventers and meters, differentiated by: • domestic use (if separate from drinking water); • industrial uses, • use for firefighting; • drinking water. For drinking water, the site must, where possible, be supplied externally (public mains network preferably), and water networks must be protected from the risk of contamination by other networks. To minimize water consumption, sites are urged to take action on both their industrial and domestic consumption: • increasing the frequency of water consumption readings from quarterly to monthly; • identifying the respective needs in regard to each of the main uses of water; • optimizing consumption by integrating water saving aspects that can be factored into the purchasing decision for new equipment; • optimizing washing operations by switching to closed-loop equipment with water treatment and reuse; • setting up recycling systems such as recovering discharge water from cooling towers; • recovering condensate water from closed circuits; • reusing water from washing floors and equipment; • replacing evaporative aerothermal cooling towers with adiabatic towers or air-cooled cooling towers; • reducing domestic water consumption by reducing pressure, installing sensor taps, recycling shower water for use in toilets, installing dual flush toilets, and collecting rainwater. Sustainable water management: measures taken to address the risks of water restrictions, shortages and cuts Prior to the purchase or lease of land or buildings, the Group requires that an environmental risk assessment be carried out in order to determine, among other things, the level of water stress of future site locations. To mitigate the effects of periods of water stress, initiatives have been undertaken to optimize water consumption and withdrawal, to equip sites with reservoirs to prepare for periods of water stress, and to secure processes and fire protection for buildings. Sustainable water management: status and progress of water management programs The main actions of the water management program implemented are as follows: • Shenzhen: Switch to air-cooled towers and deployment of sub-meters to control on-site water consumption; • Penang: Finalization of the installation of sensors for detailed consumption analysis; • Guangzhou: Switch to air-cooled towers; • Chonburi: Rainwater collection study underway; • Rio, Ben Arous, Enfidha, Juarez, Cairo: Domestic water measures; • Sanand: Repair of the wastewater treatment plant; • Chennai: Construction of a wastewater treatment plant; • Mondovi, Shenyang, Nanjing Daegu 1: Renovation of the water supply network; • Amiens: Replacement of the open-water cooling tower with an adiabatic cooler; • Campinas: Installation of 30 sub-meters; • Étaples: Cooling tower ventilation control based on outside temperature to reduce evaporation; • Étaples, Campinas: Atmospheric breakers. Overall, the use of closed-loop mold cooling is becoming more widespread across the Group (67% of sites in 2024). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 246 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Sustainable water management: actions planned for the future Water management program The Group will reinforce its efforts to reduce water consumption with the publication of a Water Manual. It contains best practices in water consumption analysis and reduction, as well as examples of financing. The External Affairs Department is exploring opportunities for financing programs in China, Poland, Mexico and India. A dedicated webinar for sites is currently being rolled out. Water quality With respect to water quality, the Group plans to: • add 25 new substances to the list of substances monitored by the Group; • reduce the maximum concentration values for several pollutants; • develop a single methodology for measuring and monitoring antimicrobial genes; • request additional information at site level; • increase the pace of updates of pollutant lists to keep up with scientific developments; • use the LEAP (Locate, Evaluate, Assess, Prepare) approach; • define target-setting standards in agreement with Divisions and sites (in case of a change in scope, the reference may be revised). 4.2.5.4 Targets related to water (DR E3-3) [ESRS E3 § 23] Valeo does not currently have specific targets for its sites located in areas of high-water stress. Specific targets will be set for the next period (2025-2030). The aim of such targets is to limit the risk associated with the availability of water resources, for example by promoting the use of recycled water on site and by controlling water withdrawal. [ESRS E3 § 25] Targets The Group has voluntarily set two targets to limit the risk associated with water withdrawals in high-risk areas: • water withdrawal intensity: the aim of this target is to reduce water withdrawals. The Group has elected to use an intensity criterion in order to dissociate outcomes from business development. The target intensity had been set at 185 cu.m/ million euros for 2025; • the number of sites with groundwater withdrawals: the aim of this indicator is to minimize the number of sites with direct groundwater withdrawals. However, groundwater is the only available source for some sites. The Group’s net water consumption, including wastewater, is being reported for the first time for 2024. The Group plans to set new water consumption targets for 2030. Historically, water withdrawal reduction targets have been set at Group level, based on two criteria: first, individual criteria for the biggest water consumers; and second, a geographic criterion for sites in areas of high water stress. Expected outcomes The Group’s water management program focuses on sites representing 50% of total water withdrawals in order to reduce not only the intensity of water withdrawals, but also the absolute value of water withdrawals. In 2024, the number of sites using groundwater was reduced from 17 to 14. Due to supply constraints and the absence of public networks, 14 wells have been maintained across the Group. In 2024, Valeo confirms the achievement of its 2025 objectives in terms of intensity and reduction in absolute terms. New, more ambitious targets have been set for 2030. 4.2.5.5 Water consumption (DR E3-4) In 2024, for the first year, the Valeo Group reported a net consumption of 790,451 cu.m. of water, taking into account volumes withdrawn and discharged. WATER WITHDRAWALS, DISCHARGES AND CONSUMPTION Unit 2019 2023 2024 % Y/Y-1 2025 target TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION cu.m ND ND 790,451 Total water consumption in areas of water stress, including areas of high-water stress; cu.m ND ND 277,030 Total water recycled and reused cu.m ND ND 292,220 Total water stored ND ND NS Changes in water storage ND ND NS Water consumption intensity ratio cu.m/€m ND ND 37 Water withdrawal intensity ratio cu.m/€m 197 148 121 -18% 185 Total water withdrawn cu.m 3,697,803 3,027,288 2,609,927 -14 % < 3,000,000 Total water discharged cu.m ND ND 1,819,476 The -14% drop in the absolute value of water withdrawals compared with 2023 is the result of the Group’s mobilization around a water management program launched in 2019, which aims to control and reduce withdrawals, detect and eliminate leaks and the use of open-loop water, and prohibit groundwater withdrawals for industrial use. Through the quarterly sharing of best practices, on-site water treatment and reuse solutions are promoted and adopted. The overall water withdrawal intensity ratio decreased by 18% to 121 cu.m./million euros in 2024. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 247"
"Methodological details and definitions of metrics The amount of water consumed is determined by the amount of water withdrawn and the amount of water discharged, with or without treatment, in accordance with the expectations of ESRS E3-4. Water withdrawals include water from the public supply network, groundwater, surface water and rainwater collected on all Valeo Group sites. The measurement of water discharge was added to the reporting process in 2023 and includes water discharged to third parties or into a natural environment. Calculations of water consumption, discharges and withdrawals are based on actual data. Water consumption is calculated by subtracting water discharges from water withdrawals. To obtain a breakdown of the various metrics for areas of high- and extremely high-water stress, sites were classified using the WRI Aqueduct V4 tool. The Group records the amount of water treated on-site, recycled and reused in production. Stored water has been deliberately excluded from metrics as it represents immaterial volumes (firewater). Water intensity is measured using two numerators: • water consumption in accordance with ESRS E3-4; • water withdrawal to provide data comparable with those observed in previous reference periods. [ESRS E3 § 28] For withdrawals, 100% of data is from actual measurements. For water discharges, 40% of data is from actual discharge measurements, and 60% from estimates. 4.2.5.6 Anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR E3-5) The CSRD allows companies to omit the information prescribed by ESRS E3-5 for the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on its anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities. To date, the Group's water-related operating expenses and capital expenditure are not automatically identifiable in its accounting systems. Valeo is therefore unable to report this information in respect of 2024. However, a process for identifying these OpEx and CapEx will be implemented in 2025. 4.2.6 Biodiversity (ESRS E4) 4.2.6.1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (DR E4-1) [ESRS E4 § 13] At this stage, the Group has not conducted a resilience analysis of its strategy and economic model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems, as it does not have a direct dependence on natural resources that could be affected by systemic, physical and transition risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E4 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 248 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"4.2.6.2 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (DR SBM 3) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E4 – BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS Biodiversity and ecosystems Limited negative impact on biodiversity due to the Group’s activities and value chain operations. Biodiversity and ecosystems The financial and reputational impact of an event on biodiversity resulting from the Group’s activities and value chain operations is considered to be limited. [ESRS E4 § 16] To more accurately understand its potential impacts, the Group conducts an annual biodiversity inventory at plants located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas using the database made available by the Key Biodiversity Areas Programme. Fifteen production sites and R&D centers out of Valeo’s consolidated sites have been identified as being located within 10 km of an area where an IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) Red List ""endangered"" or ""critically endangered"" species has its natural habitat: seven in Asia, five in Africa, two in Europe and one in Central America. Five of these sites are located within one kilometer of such an area: three in Africa, one in Asia and one in Europe. However, the activities of these Valeo sites are not likely to significantly alter ecological processes: there is no impact in terms of land degradation, desertification, deforestation or soil sealing, nor do their operations have a direct impact on threatened species. The upstream value chain has been analyzed using the ENCORE tool. Few of the Group’s products are currently biosourced. However, with the growing demand for recyclability, Valeo will be vigilant about the supply of biosourced materials. To conduct these analyses, Valeo used the LEAP approach, which is described in detail in section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems”. 4.2.6.3 Identification and assessment of material impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities relating to biodiversity (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) [ESRS E4 § 17] Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. The identification and assessment of actual and potential impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems for the Group’s sites was performed using the LEAP methodology (as described in section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity”, page 250). The analysis of actual and potential impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain is included in the actions to be taken. Dependencies on biodiversity, ecosystems and ecosystem services were identified and assessed using the LEAP methodology (see section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity”, page 250). The identification and assessment of transition risks, physical risks and opportunities are included in the list of actions to be taken following analyses initiated in 2024. In 2024, the Group established a biodiversity governance structure and carried out an initial analysis with an external firm based on public data in order to understand the materiality of the subject. A more detailed and substantiated analysis will be carried out in 2025 with an external expert in the field. No consultation with local communities affected by Valeo’s activities has taken place at this stage. [ESRS E4 § 19] The Group has begun analyzing the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities for its own operations and for its value chain, using the LEAP approach (see section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems”, page 250). Several tools are used for this analysis: • the KBA and IUCN databases which make it possible to identify sites located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas; • the ENCORE tool for value chain analysis. To date, it has not been deemed necessary to implement biodiversity impact mitigation measures such as those defined in Directive 2009/147/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conservation of wild birds. For more details on sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas, see section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 249). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 249"
"4.2.6.4 Policies related to biodiversity (DR E4-2) [ESRS E4 § 23] At this stage of the analysis initiated in 2024, described in section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity”, page 250), the Group is not aware of: • significant impacts on biodiversity and shared ecosystems resulting from its activities: • material impacts on biodiversity and shared ecosystems resulting from its activities, • social consequences of biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts caused directly by its activities. A more detailed and substantiated analysis will be carried out in 2025 with an external expert in the field. [ESRS E4 § 24] Almost all of the sites occupied by Valeo, i.e., nearly 90% of its production sites, are located in urban areas or areas zoned for industrial use, and the remaining 10% are located in agricultural or natural areas. In any event, its activities are not liable to significantly alter ecological processes (no extraction or spraying, for instance). However, to gain a more accurate understanding of its potential impacts, the Group conducts an annual inventory of sites located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas, and has carried out an analysis of the impacts and dependencies, and the resulting risks and dependencies, within the value chain. As part of their ISO 14001 environmental management system and the Group “Biodiversity” directive, which sets out guidelines for biodiversity protection practices during the selection, development and closure phases of plants, all plants and R&D centers implement preventive measures, notably to address the issues of land-use change and pollution, as well as material direct impacts on biodiversity, which may be identified where appropriate through due diligence audits at site level. Prior to the acquisition or leasing of land or buildings, a study is conducted to identify and list protected areas and species in order to maintain ecosystem conditions. Under no circumstances should a site development or expansion project be directly responsible for the disappearance of a forest or wetland, or for the disappearance of a protected species or its habitat. All such projects must therefore be sited away from protected areas. Measures are taken from the site design stage to preserve local biodiversity. During the operational phase, the site takes measures to maintain or improve arrangements made to maintain or improve biodiversity when the site was developed. Valeo is also committed to promoting sites’ biodiversity initiatives with a view to extend them to all sites: • recovery and reuse of food waste to make compost and supply neighboring farms; • elimination of the use of phytosanitary products; • tightened audit of the storage of chemical products; • reduction in the consumption and discharge of heavy metals. Finally, site closures must not result in biodiversity loss. With respect to its value chain, the Group has been assessing its main suppliers as regards their biodiversity practices since 2023 (see section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing”, page 293). The Group aims to progressively strengthen its biodiversity and ecosystem protection policy with respect to upstream players in its value chain. Valeo has used the ENCORE tool to identify its key upstream raw materials. This analysis takes into account the five major pressures on biodiversity. The Group addresses indirect policies that may affect biodiversity in the sections dedicated to ESRS E1, E2, E3 and E5. Most direct suppliers are not highly material. Valeo is in the process of constructing a plan aimed at improving the maturity of Tier N suppliers in the value chain in terms of their understanding of their impacts. In addition, as part of the CAP 50 transition plan, the share of biosourced materials is set to increase, particularly bioplastics. Valeo therefore aims to include measures to manage the impacts and dependencies related to the supply of natural resources in its duty-of-care plan, notably to ensure that biosourced materials do not put pressure on biomes, by changing land use for instance. Valeo also aims to involve actors in its ecosystem, particularly in the areas of mineral extraction and electronics (see section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing”, page 293). 4.2.6.5 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity (DR E4-3) [ESRS E4 § 25] - [ESRS E4 § 27] - [ESRS E4 § 28] To assess its impact on biodiversity, Valeo has implemented the LEAP approach recommended by the TNFD (1). Locate The Group has begun an inventory of sites located near (within 10 km) protected areas using the database made available by the Key Biodiversity Areas (KBA) program. For each site identified, the IUCN classification of the species present within the perimeter was analyzed, and sites in the vicinity of “endangered” or “critically endangered” species were included in a list of “Sites of interest for biodiversity”. From this list, five sites with a listed species within a perimeter of less than 1 km were identified as “Biodiversity priority sites”. The inventory is updated annually to take account of changes in locations, and in KBA and IUCN data. At the same time, Valeo is looking to identify the areas of its value chain that interface with biodiversity, highlighting the most affected raw materials. A more detailed and substantiated analysis will be carried out in 2025 with an external expert in the field. Evaluate Valeo’s activities are not likely to significantly alter ecological processes, nor are they dependent on biodiversity. The Group has assessed the impacts of its priority sites against the five IPBES pressures and the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter, using data from the ENCORE database for the Auto Parts & Equipment activity. The “Pressure on biodiversity” impact was found to be of low materiality for all sites of interest for biodiversity. For all the Group’s activities, the dependencies assessed by the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter are either immaterial or covered by an existing policy (water, pollution, waste). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 250 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) TNFD: Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures, a working group created by the Financial Stability Board to promote financial transparency with regard to the risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and companies’ dependence on nature"
"To assess the eligibility of products for this activity, Valeo referred to multiple criteria including substantial contribution to vehicle weight reduction or to energy performance, reduction in CO2 emissions assessed on a full life cycle basis or the existence of substantial gains associated with products recognized as eco-innovations by the European Commission. Taxonomy-eligible products developed and sold by Valeo under activity 3.6 include propulsion and lighting technologies. Valeo products eligible under both activity 3.18 and activity 3.6 are assigned to activity 3.18, in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation. Activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles” In this activity, Valeo reports the amount of new leases for company vehicles made available to certain Group employees. Transition to a circular economy objective Activity 5.1 “Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing” Valeo has a longstanding business in remanufacturing (or renovating) automobile parts with a view to giving them a new life. These parts, collected from a network of garages and repair shops, undergo a comprehensive industrial remanufacturing process that gives them the same quality and performance as new parts. The range of remanufactured parts mainly includes alternators, starters and compressors, and is currently being expanded to include new products (cameras, bicycle batteries, inverters, etc.). Activity 5.2 “Sale of spare parts” Valeo sells spare parts to automakers and independent aftermarket operators. The eligibility criteria for this Taxonomy activity specify the associated NACE codes. Based on a prescriptive reading of these NACE codes, the aftermarket of Valeo’s lighting activity is the only one to fall under the Taxonomy sale of spare parts activity. 4.2.2.4 Methodology note Analysis of European Taxonomy financial KPIs Based on the Group’s management and consolidation data, Valeo can extract data relating to sales (turnover), investments (CapEx), as well as non-capitalized Research and Development expenditure, maintenance costs and short-term leases (OpEx), in accordance with the definitions in Article 8 of the Delegated Act, Annex I, Section 1.1. Intra-Group operations are not taken into account in the Taxonomy KPIs. Valeo’s allocation of turnover (sales), CapEx and OpEx to the various Taxonomy-eligible activities avoids double counting. Turnover Assumptions used to calculate eligibility The KPI’s numerator comprises the sales generated by the Group’s eligible activities. Reported sales figures are taken from Valeo’s accounting and consolidation systems. The Group also uses allocation keys derived from the sales database to estimate the allocation of sales of a product family based on the engine of the vehicles equipped. The denominator corresponds to the consolidated sales of the Valeo Group for the year ended December 31, 2024 (see Note 5.1 “Sales” to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document, page 371). Assumptions used to calculate alignment For the three activities of the climate change mitigation objective for which eligible turnover is reported, Valeo reports the same amounts for alignment, as the substantial contribution criteria, the generic criteria of the “do no significant harm” principle and compliance with the minimum safeguards are met (see below). With regard to the transition to a circular economy objective, for which alignment disclosure is required for the first time in respect of 2024, Valeo has performed an analysis of the substantial contribution criteria, the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle, and the minimum safeguards for the two activities for which eligible turnover is declared. This analysis showed that Valeo’s eligible activities are aligned with the transition to a circular economy objective. Capital expenditure (CapEx) Assumptions used to calculate eligibility The KPI's numerator comprises the Group’s capital expenditure, corresponding to purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including right-of-use assets (IFRS 16), recorded in 2024, before depreciation and amortization, that can be allocated to a Taxonomy activity. First, the Group analyzed capital expenditure related directly to eligible turnover-generating activities as detailed above. Second, the analysis of the new long-term leased assets recognized under IFRS 16 made it possible to identify the new right-of-use assets associated with company vehicles, to be reported in activity 6.5 Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. The denominator of the Group’s capital expenditure KPI corresponds to the Group’s total capital expenditure relating to purchases of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, including right-of-use assets (IFRS 16), recorded in 2024, before depreciation and amortization (see Notes 7.2 “Other intangible assets” and 7.3 “Property, plant and equipment” to the consolidated financial statements in section 5.4.6 of this document, pages 389 to 393). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 209"
"Assumptions used to calculate alignment As with turnover, all CapEx eligible for Taxonomy activities 3.4, 3.18, 3.6, 5.1 and 5.2 has been reported as aligned. Regarding activity 6.5, the information on the motorization of company vehicles required to report alignment is not available in the Group’s financial systems. Given the immateriality of this activity for Valeo and in accordance with FAQ 13 published by the European Commission in October 2023 (C/2023/305), Valeo reports zero alignment for this activity in 2024. Operating expenditure (OpEx) Assumptions used to calculate eligibility Operating expenditure (OpEx) consists of: • non-capitalized Research and Development expenditure, i.e., gross R&D expenditure less capitalized development expenditure (see Note 7.2 “Other intangible assets” to the consolidated financial statements in section 5.4.6 of this document, page 389); • maintenance, upkeep and repair expenses; • short-term leases. The sum of these expenses represents the denominator of the OpEx KPI. The KPI’s numerator comprises operating expenses related to the Taxonomy activities set out above, whose turnover is eligible. Assumptions used to calculate alignment As with turnover, all OpEx eligible for taxonomy activities 3.4, 3.18, 3.6, 5.1 and 5.2 has been reported as aligned. Analysis of the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle and minimum safeguards The analysis of the generic criteria relating to the “do no significant harm” principle and minimum safeguards covers Valeo’s entire product portfolio. Under the Regulation, these criteria only apply to Valeo’s Taxonomy-eligible activities. In 2024, to justify the alignment of Valeo’s eligible activities with the transition to a circular economy objective, an analysis was conducted with respect to the generic criterion of the “do no significant harm” principle as regards climate change mitigation, as well as an additional analysis with respect to spare parts for the generic criterion of the “do no significant harm” principle as regards pollution prevention and control. The analysis of the other criteria and the minimum safeguards is common to Valeo’s Taxonomy-eligible activities under the climate change mitigation and transition to a circular economy objectives. Details are provided below. Generic criteria relating to the ""do no significant harm"" principle Climate change mitigation Most of Valeo’s activities do not involve on-site production of heat or cold. Where this is the case (mainly furnaces), the use of gas results in GHG emissions below the limit of 270 gCO2eq./ kWh (global emission factor: 239 gCO2eq./kWh). In addition, the Group’s CAP 50 strategy (see section 4.2.3 “Climate strategy”, page 217) covers transportation-related emissions, including for remanufacturing activities. Climate change adaptation To strengthen its understanding of the impacts of climate change on the Group’s physical assets (physical risks), Valeo has carried out an analysis of its exposure to the impacts of climate change across its entire scope of consolidation, including the risks linked to changes in temperature and in the management of water, wind and soil resources in the SSP2-4.5 and SSP5-8.5 Representative Concentration Pathway scenarios for 2030 and 2050. This analysis, carried out using climate modeling tools developed by leading players in the field, served to characterize and assess the nature and likely intensity of the risk. It was carried out at the level of a plant or office, which at this stage is the most granular and relevant level available for a manufacturing company. The analysis is part of broader efforts to gain a better understanding of Valeo’s exposure to the risks associated with the consequences of climate change, which will regularly be supplemented by dedicated site audits and programs to strengthen on-site prevention tools and systems. Transition to a circular economy Valeo adopted a circular economy strategy in 2021. It is based on a 4R approach aimed at remanufacturing parts, i.e., reconditioning them via an industrial manufacturing process, repairing and recycling them, and ensuring that they remain robust over time. This approach draws on careful resource consumption, eco-design policies, and the management of waste and hazardous materials (see section 4.2.1 ""Environmental policies and commitments"", page 205). Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources Valeo has a longstanding policy on water management, which includes reducing water withdrawals and consumption, minimizing industrial effluents and gradually phasing out the use of water from natural sources where possible. Valeo has installed various equipment to limit the risk of pollution (non-return valves, retention zones, etc.) and to better understand the impact of its water consumption based on the geographic location of its sites. Some of these analyses are disclosed transparently via CDP Water and are available on the dedicated website. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 210 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"Pollution prevention and control regarding use and presence of chemicals Valeo has policies and tools designed to ensure that its products and those of its suppliers comply with the requirements of European regulations on the use of regulated chemicals. All its products accordingly comply with applicable regulations, notably those governing the use of persistent organic pollutants (POPs), mercury and mercury compounds, fluorochemicals, substances covered by Regulation 1907/2006 (REACH(1)) and the End-of-Life Vehicle (ELV(1)) Directive. In accordance with the requirements of Appendix C of the Taxonomy Regulation, as revised on June 27, 2023, the use of substances characterized under Articles 57 and 59 of the REACH Regulation is conditional on their use under controlled conditions and the non-availability of suitable substitutes. The Group systematically evaluates and documents these exemption conditions based on the use of the chemical substances concerned. The Group ensures this through the International Material Data System (IMDS(1)), which allows it to ensure that its suppliers meet the same requirements. In the remanufacturing and spare parts distribution activities, the few products intended for the independent aftermarket that are not tracked in this system are subject to systematic verification with suppliers and through REACH compliance declarations for all purchased components in accordance with the Group’s purchasing and aftermarket policies and procedures. Based on a representative sample of its platforms and products, Valeo implemented a complementary verification methodology for the information reported in IMDS. This methodology confirmed that the policies and tools in place ensure regulatory compliance and the traceability of materials and substances, as well as compliance with the framework established by the European Taxonomy for the use of regulated substances and authorized thresholds. Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems In line with local regulations in the countries where the Group operates, Valeo has implemented policies aimed at preserving and protecting flora and fauna near its sites (such as natural areas of ecological, fauna and flora interest (ZNIEFF) in France, see section 4.2.6.4 “Policies related to biodiversity”, page 250). Valeo’s commitment to protect biodiversity is further demonstrated by the environmental compliance analyses carried out at its sites and specifically on the Group’s new acquisitions. In the event of proven damage to biodiversity and ecosystems, Valeo has implemented appropriate restoration measures. Minimum safeguards With regard to the minimum safeguards set out in the Taxonomy Regulation, Valeo has longstanding policies and tools that enable it to meet requirements in respect of: • human rights, through the existence of adequate policies and risk management, supported by dedicated tools, such as internal and external whistleblowing procedures for its employees and suppliers, together with a package of sanctions. In 2024, Valeo was not subject to any convictions relating to a breach of its duty of care policies in terms of human rights; • corruption, through the existence of policies and a risk management approach; • taxation, through the existence of a tax policy based on taxation in the country of production; • compliance with competition laws, through the existence of a set of anti-fraud and anti-corruption training programs that are updated annually and mandatory for the entire population exposed to this risk. Thanks to its internal procedures, risk management policy and the absence of disputes relating to the minimum safeguards, Valeo can declare its products meet the minimum safeguards provision of the Taxonomy. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 211 (1) See sustainable development glossary, page 341."
"4.2.2.5 Taxonomy KPI tables The tables on the following pages (pages 212 to 216) set out the figures for the three Taxonomy KPIs – turnover, CapEx and OpEx – for 2024. Turnover Year Y 2024 Substantial contribution criteria Do no significant harm criteria (“DNSH criteria”) Minimum safeguards (17) Taxonomy-aligned proportion of turnover (A.1.) or Taxonomy-eligible proportion of Turnover (A.2.) in year Y-1 (18) Category (enabling activity) (19) Category (transitional activity) (20) Economic activities (1) Code (2) Turnover (3) Proportion of turnover year Y (4) Climate change mitigation (5) Climate change adaptation (6) Water (7) Pollution (8) Circular economy (9) Biodiversity (10) Climate change mitigation (11) Climate change adaptation(12) Water (13) Pollution (14) Circular economy (15) Biodiversity (16) €m % YES; NO; N/EL YES/NO % E T A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) Manufacture of batteries CCM 3.4 576 3% YES N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 5% E Manufacture of other low carbon technologies CCM 3.6 1,737 8% YES N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 8% E Manufacture of automotive and mobility components CCM 3.18 999 5% YES N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 7% E Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing CE 5.1 56 —% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL YES N/EL YES YES YES YES YES YES YES Sale of spare parts CE 5.2 387 2% N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL YES N/EL YES YES YES YES YES YES YES Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1.) 3,755 17% 15% —% —% —% 2% —% YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 19% Of which enabling 3,312 15% 15% —% —% —% —% —% YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 19% E Of which transitional — —% —% YES YES YES YES YES YES YES —% T A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2.) — —% —% —% —% —% —% —% 2% A. Turnover of Taxonomy- eligible activities (A.1. + A.2.) 3,755 17% 15% —% —% —% 2% —% 21% B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES Turnover of Taxonomy- non-eligible activities 17,737 83% TOTAL 21,492 100% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 212 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
Contribution to multiple objectives None of Valeo’s economic activities reported in turnover make a substantial contribution to multiple environmental objectives. Proportion of turnover/total turnover Taxonomy-aligned per objective Taxonomy-eligible per objective CCM % % CCA % % WTR % % CE % % PPC % % BIO % % SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 213
"Methodological details and definitions of metrics The amount of water consumed is determined by the amount of water withdrawn and the amount of water discharged, with or without treatment, in accordance with the expectations of ESRS E3-4. Water withdrawals include water from the public supply network, groundwater, surface water and rainwater collected on all Valeo Group sites. The measurement of water discharge was added to the reporting process in 2023 and includes water discharged to third parties or into a natural environment. Calculations of water consumption, discharges and withdrawals are based on actual data. Water consumption is calculated by subtracting water discharges from water withdrawals. To obtain a breakdown of the various metrics for areas of high- and extremely high-water stress, sites were classified using the WRI Aqueduct V4 tool. The Group records the amount of water treated on-site, recycled and reused in production. Stored water has been deliberately excluded from metrics as it represents immaterial volumes (firewater). Water intensity is measured using two numerators: • water consumption in accordance with ESRS E3-4; • water withdrawal to provide data comparable with those observed in previous reference periods. [ESRS E3 § 28] For withdrawals, 100% of data is from actual measurements. For water discharges, 40% of data is from actual discharge measurements, and 60% from estimates. 4.2.5.6 Anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR E3-5) The CSRD allows companies to omit the information prescribed by ESRS E3-5 for the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on its anticipated financial effects from water-related impacts, risks and opportunities. To date, the Group's water-related operating expenses and capital expenditure are not automatically identifiable in its accounting systems. Valeo is therefore unable to report this information in respect of 2024. However, a process for identifying these OpEx and CapEx will be implemented in 2025. 4.2.6 Biodiversity (ESRS E4) 4.2.6.1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model (DR E4-1) [ESRS E4 § 13] At this stage, the Group has not conducted a resilience analysis of its strategy and economic model in relation to biodiversity and ecosystems, as it does not have a direct dependence on natural resources that could be affected by systemic, physical and transition risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E4 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 248 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"4.2.6.2 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model (DR SBM 3) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E4 – BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS Biodiversity and ecosystems Limited negative impact on biodiversity due to the Group’s activities and value chain operations. Biodiversity and ecosystems The financial and reputational impact of an event on biodiversity resulting from the Group’s activities and value chain operations is considered to be limited. [ESRS E4 § 16] To more accurately understand its potential impacts, the Group conducts an annual biodiversity inventory at plants located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas using the database made available by the Key Biodiversity Areas Programme. Fifteen production sites and R&D centers out of Valeo’s consolidated sites have been identified as being located within 10 km of an area where an IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) Red List ""endangered"" or ""critically endangered"" species has its natural habitat: seven in Asia, five in Africa, two in Europe and one in Central America. Five of these sites are located within one kilometer of such an area: three in Africa, one in Asia and one in Europe. However, the activities of these Valeo sites are not likely to significantly alter ecological processes: there is no impact in terms of land degradation, desertification, deforestation or soil sealing, nor do their operations have a direct impact on threatened species. The upstream value chain has been analyzed using the ENCORE tool. Few of the Group’s products are currently biosourced. However, with the growing demand for recyclability, Valeo will be vigilant about the supply of biosourced materials. To conduct these analyses, Valeo used the LEAP approach, which is described in detail in section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems”. 4.2.6.3 Identification and assessment of material impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities relating to biodiversity (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) [ESRS E4 § 17] Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. The identification and assessment of actual and potential impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems for the Group’s sites was performed using the LEAP methodology (as described in section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity”, page 250). The analysis of actual and potential impacts in the upstream and downstream value chain is included in the actions to be taken. Dependencies on biodiversity, ecosystems and ecosystem services were identified and assessed using the LEAP methodology (see section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity”, page 250). The identification and assessment of transition risks, physical risks and opportunities are included in the list of actions to be taken following analyses initiated in 2024. In 2024, the Group established a biodiversity governance structure and carried out an initial analysis with an external firm based on public data in order to understand the materiality of the subject. A more detailed and substantiated analysis will be carried out in 2025 with an external expert in the field. No consultation with local communities affected by Valeo’s activities has taken place at this stage. [ESRS E4 § 19] The Group has begun analyzing the impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities for its own operations and for its value chain, using the LEAP approach (see section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems”, page 250). Several tools are used for this analysis: • the KBA and IUCN databases which make it possible to identify sites located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas; • the ENCORE tool for value chain analysis. To date, it has not been deemed necessary to implement biodiversity impact mitigation measures such as those defined in Directive 2009/147/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conservation of wild birds. For more details on sites located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas, see section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 249). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 249"
"4.2.6.4 Policies related to biodiversity (DR E4-2) [ESRS E4 § 23] At this stage of the analysis initiated in 2024, described in section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity”, page 250), the Group is not aware of: • significant impacts on biodiversity and shared ecosystems resulting from its activities: • material impacts on biodiversity and shared ecosystems resulting from its activities, • social consequences of biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts caused directly by its activities. A more detailed and substantiated analysis will be carried out in 2025 with an external expert in the field. [ESRS E4 § 24] Almost all of the sites occupied by Valeo, i.e., nearly 90% of its production sites, are located in urban areas or areas zoned for industrial use, and the remaining 10% are located in agricultural or natural areas. In any event, its activities are not liable to significantly alter ecological processes (no extraction or spraying, for instance). However, to gain a more accurate understanding of its potential impacts, the Group conducts an annual inventory of sites located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas, and has carried out an analysis of the impacts and dependencies, and the resulting risks and dependencies, within the value chain. As part of their ISO 14001 environmental management system and the Group “Biodiversity” directive, which sets out guidelines for biodiversity protection practices during the selection, development and closure phases of plants, all plants and R&D centers implement preventive measures, notably to address the issues of land-use change and pollution, as well as material direct impacts on biodiversity, which may be identified where appropriate through due diligence audits at site level. Prior to the acquisition or leasing of land or buildings, a study is conducted to identify and list protected areas and species in order to maintain ecosystem conditions. Under no circumstances should a site development or expansion project be directly responsible for the disappearance of a forest or wetland, or for the disappearance of a protected species or its habitat. All such projects must therefore be sited away from protected areas. Measures are taken from the site design stage to preserve local biodiversity. During the operational phase, the site takes measures to maintain or improve arrangements made to maintain or improve biodiversity when the site was developed. Valeo is also committed to promoting sites’ biodiversity initiatives with a view to extend them to all sites: • recovery and reuse of food waste to make compost and supply neighboring farms; • elimination of the use of phytosanitary products; • tightened audit of the storage of chemical products; • reduction in the consumption and discharge of heavy metals. Finally, site closures must not result in biodiversity loss. With respect to its value chain, the Group has been assessing its main suppliers as regards their biodiversity practices since 2023 (see section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing”, page 293). The Group aims to progressively strengthen its biodiversity and ecosystem protection policy with respect to upstream players in its value chain. Valeo has used the ENCORE tool to identify its key upstream raw materials. This analysis takes into account the five major pressures on biodiversity. The Group addresses indirect policies that may affect biodiversity in the sections dedicated to ESRS E1, E2, E3 and E5. Most direct suppliers are not highly material. Valeo is in the process of constructing a plan aimed at improving the maturity of Tier N suppliers in the value chain in terms of their understanding of their impacts. In addition, as part of the CAP 50 transition plan, the share of biosourced materials is set to increase, particularly bioplastics. Valeo therefore aims to include measures to manage the impacts and dependencies related to the supply of natural resources in its duty-of-care plan, notably to ensure that biosourced materials do not put pressure on biomes, by changing land use for instance. Valeo also aims to involve actors in its ecosystem, particularly in the areas of mineral extraction and electronics (see section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing”, page 293). 4.2.6.5 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity (DR E4-3) [ESRS E4 § 25] - [ESRS E4 § 27] - [ESRS E4 § 28] To assess its impact on biodiversity, Valeo has implemented the LEAP approach recommended by the TNFD (1). Locate The Group has begun an inventory of sites located near (within 10 km) protected areas using the database made available by the Key Biodiversity Areas (KBA) program. For each site identified, the IUCN classification of the species present within the perimeter was analyzed, and sites in the vicinity of “endangered” or “critically endangered” species were included in a list of “Sites of interest for biodiversity”. From this list, five sites with a listed species within a perimeter of less than 1 km were identified as “Biodiversity priority sites”. The inventory is updated annually to take account of changes in locations, and in KBA and IUCN data. At the same time, Valeo is looking to identify the areas of its value chain that interface with biodiversity, highlighting the most affected raw materials. A more detailed and substantiated analysis will be carried out in 2025 with an external expert in the field. Evaluate Valeo’s activities are not likely to significantly alter ecological processes, nor are they dependent on biodiversity. The Group has assessed the impacts of its priority sites against the five IPBES pressures and the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter, using data from the ENCORE database for the Auto Parts & Equipment activity. The “Pressure on biodiversity” impact was found to be of low materiality for all sites of interest for biodiversity. For all the Group’s activities, the dependencies assessed by the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter are either immaterial or covered by an existing policy (water, pollution, waste). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 250 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) TNFD: Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures, a working group created by the Financial Stability Board to promote financial transparency with regard to the risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and companies’ dependence on nature"
"In 2024, Valeo carried out a more in-depth qualitative analysis at a priority pilot site (Martos), which confirmed the initial overall assessments. In the value chain, Valeo assessed the biodiversity-related impacts and dependencies of the raw materials identified in the previous step, based on the ENCORE database and the five IPBES pressures, using the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter. Assess In 2024, the Group carried out the following actions: • on operations: launch of a pilot project at the Martos site. Based on the impacts assessed in the previous step, Valeo estimated the physical, reputational and financial risks and opportunities. The materiality of these risks was assessed as low; • on the value chain: • development of analysis questionnaires for suppliers; • on the aluminum raw material pilot: materiality and maturity assessment of the main suppliers based on their reporting; • contact of a sample of the highest-risk suppliers and conduct of a pilot interview with a Tier N supplier. Prepare Valeo is planning the following actions: • On sites identified as being of interest for biodiversity, the Group plans to mobilize the HSE network to confirm the impact and dependency assessment and to conduct a risk analysis based on that carried out at the Martos pilot site. Sites will be progressively included in the process in 2025 and 2026. • On sites identified as priorities, the Group will also provide a toolkit to raise awareness of biodiversity challenges and the presence of threatened species in the area, as well as a system for reporting the presence of a member of one of these species near the site. Actions taken and reports received will be monitored annually. • Valeo plans to develop an action plan for priority sites by 2027. • With regard to the value chain, the Group will continue to assess the materiality and maturity of its suppliers on this issue through questions on biodiversity in its annual questionnaire. In addition, pilots will be launched in 2025 with a sample of suppliers of the most vulnerable raw materials, in line with the 2024 actions. To date, the Group has not used biodiversity offsets in its action plans. The EU Deforestation Regulation With a view to the application of European regulation 2023/1115 on deforestation-free products (EUDR(1)), the Group identified the projects concerned in 2024 and prepared to implement a due diligence process to ensure compliance with this regulation. Valeo’s activities are only marginally affected. Valeo sells a small number of original rubber equipment spares in the aftermarket, some of which may be made of natural rubber, and imports small quantities of natural rubber for certain complex products that are not subject to the regulation. The Group has taken steps with its suppliers to ensure that these materials do not contribute to deforestation in order to comply with the regulation. 4.2.6.6 Targets related to biodiversity (DR E4-4) [ESRS E4 § 29] - [ESRS E4 § 32] The Group is currently analyzing its impacts using the LEAP approach. Valeo has identified areas for vigilance, particularly in relation to biosourced products. Targets will be set as soon as the study is sufficiently advanced to identify priority issues and targets to be achieved. In the meantime, to minimize the environmental impact of its activities by 2027, the Group has set itself the goal of applying the ENCORE tool more widely to the raw materials in its value chain that have been identified as having the greatest impact on biodiversity, based on analyses currently underway and initiated in 2024. The geographic scope of this target is therefore global. Governance of biodiversity matters is currently being established within the Sustainable Development Department, involving HSE and industry networks. 4.2.6.7 Impact metrics tracking biodiversity change (DR E4-5) [ESRS E4 § 35] No Valeo site adversely affects biodiversity, as indicated in section 4.2.6.2 “Material biodiversity-related impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 249. 4.2.6.8 Anticipated financial effects from material biodiversity-related impacts, risks and opportunities (DR E4-6) The CSRD allows companies to omit the information prescribed by ESRS E4-6 for the first year of preparation of its sustainability statement. For its first year of publication, Valeo has elected to activate the phase-in clause and not to report data on its anticipated financial effects from biodiversity-related impacts, risks and opportunities. To date, the Group's biodiversity-related operating expenses and capital expenditure are not automatically identifiable in its accounting systems. Valeo is therefore unable to report this information in respect of 2024. However, a process for identifying these OpEx and CapEx will be implemented in 2025. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 251 (1) Regulation (EU) 2023/1115 of the European Parliament and of the Council of May 31, 2023 on the making available on the Union market and the export from the Union of certain commodities and products associated with deforestation and forest degradation and repealing Regulation (EU) No 995/2010."
"4.2.7 Resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5) 4.2.7.1 Identification and assessment of material impacts, risks and opportunities related to resource use and circular economy (DR related to ESRS 2 IRO-1) IRO Position in the value chain Time horizon Negative impact Positive impact Risks Opportunities Upstream Own activities Downstream Short term Medium term Long term ESRS E5 – CIRCULAR ECONOMY Resource inflows/Resource use Opportunity to deploy eco-responsible design and production, reduce consumption of water, energy and raw materials (metal, plastic) and replace traditional materials with greener, lighter, recycled and biosourced substitutes, while involving business partners in this approach, with a positive impact on the environment. Resource outflows/Circular economy (4R program) Opportunity to implement a strategy dedicated to the circularity of production, and products and services throughout their life cycle. The financial impact for the Group is positive, in terms of both cost control and commercial opportunities. Waste Opportunity to avoid, manage and recycle waste from the production process, with a positive impact on the environment and financial savings for the Group. [ESRS E5 § 11] Impacts, risks and opportunities were assessed during workshops organized jointly by the Risk Management Department and the Sustainable Development Department, as described in section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model”, page 200. During these workshops, internal contributors identified and assessed impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) according to the methodology described in section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, page 201. [ESRS 2 MDR – A§69] Initiatives related to IROs of the ESRS E5 topical standards are often integrated into broader action plans. However, Valeo does not always have the data granularity required to track current and future resources allocated to each action (BP 2). 4.2.7.2 Circular economy: 4R program 4.2.7.2.1 Policies related to circular economy – 4R program (DR E5-1) [ESRS E5 § 14] - [ESRS E5 § 15] The transportation sector accounts for two-thirds of total oil consumption and 13% of steel consumption. With the development of electric mobility, it is expected to account for 80% of battery consumption worldwide in the future(1). Optimizing resource consumption is therefore a critical challenge for the mobility industry at a time of growing environmental awareness. The circular economy is a powerful lever for reducing consumption while preserving the value of assembled finished products for as long as possible. The Group's 4R program is the cornerstone of this approach: robust design, remanufacturing, repair, and recycle. Through it, the Group is committed to extending the life of the final assembled product as long as possible to preserve its value as much as possible. The challenges are multiple and include the following three levers: • Business: repair and remanufacturing to build a more sustainable portfolio for the aftermarket and extend the lifespan of products already in circulation. The Group is proactively working to move beyond existing internal combustion engine offerings. By enriching its portfolio with electronic and mechatronic components, Valeo is responding to the shift of the automotive industry towards electric vehicles and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS). The aim of the “Business” lever is to extend the useful lives of products already on the market, to repair products that are no longer working so as to give them a second life, and to remanufacture, reusing end-of-life products and rebuilding them identically; • Design: robust design integrating end-of-life (post-use) management. The idea is to innovate to make future generations of Valeo products more circular. A particular focus is the development of disassembly solutions to facilitate repair. The aim of the Design lever is to integrate the circular economy from the design phase, making the product more robust in order to maximize its life. 80% of a product’s environmental impact is determined during the design phase. It is therefore necessary to ensure that it can be disassembled, repaired and remanufactured, or its materials recycled; SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental information 252 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 (1) Source: 2023 International Transport Forum."
"ESRS E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 14 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 x 4.2.3.4 223 ESRS E1-1 16 (g) Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned benchmarks x x Not applicable ESRS 2 SBM-3 E1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.3.2 218 ESRS 2 IRO-1 E1 Description of the processes to identify and assess material climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.3.3 219 ESRS E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.5 227 ESRS E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 4.2.3.6 228 ESRS E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 4.2.3.7 229 ESRS E1-4 34 GHG emission reduction targets x x x 4.2.3.7 230 ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 38 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact sectors) x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 37 Energy consumption and mix x 4.2.3.8 233 ESRS E1-5 40-43 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors x 4.2.3.8 234 ESRS E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 4.2.3.9 234 ESRS E1-6 44 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions x x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-6 53-55 Gross GHG emissions intensity x x 4.2.3.9 235 ESRS E1-7 GHG absorption and mitigation projects financed through carbon credits Not applicable ESRS E1-7 56 GHG removals and carbon credits x Not applicable ESRS E1-8 Internal carbon pricing 4.2.3.10 236 ESRS E1-9 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 66 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks x 4.2.3.11 236 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 299"
"ESRS E1-9 66 (a); 66 (c) Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk Location of significant assets at material physical risk x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 67 (c) Breakdown of the carrying value of the undertaking's real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS E1-9 69 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate-related opportunities x 4.2.3.11 236 ESRS IRO-1 E2 Description of the processes to identify and assess material pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.1 236 ESRS E2-1 Policies related to pollution 4.2.4.2 237 ESRS E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 239 ESRS E2-3 Targets related to pollution 4.2.4.4 241 ESRS E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-4 28 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and soil x 4.2.4.5 242 ESRS E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 4.2.4.6 243 ESRS E2-6 Anticipated financial effects from pollution-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.4.7 244 ESRS IRO-1 E3 Description of the processes to identify and assess material water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.1 244 ESRS E3-1 Policies related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 9 Water and marine resources x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 13 Dedicated policy x 4.2.5.2 245 ESRS E3-1 14 Sustainable oceans and seas x Not applicable ESRS E3-2 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.3 246 ESRS E3-3 Targets related to water and marine resources 4.2.5.4 247 ESRS E3-4 Number of accidents with lost time 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 28 (c) Total percentage of water recycled and reused x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-4 29 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations x 4.2.5.5 247 ESRS E3-5 Anticipated financial effects from water and marine resources-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.5.6 248 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 300 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 4.2.6.1 248 ESRS 2-SBM-3 E4 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (a) i Activities negatively affecting biodiversity-sensitive areas x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (b) Breakdown of sites according to impacts and dependencies x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS 2 SBM-3 E4 16 (c) Biodiversity-sensitive areas affected x 4.2.6.2 249 ESRS IRO-1 E4 Description of the processes to identify and assess material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.3 249 ESRS E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-2 24 (b) Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (c) Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies x Not applicable ESRS E4-2 24 (d) Policy to prevent deforestation x 4.2.6.4 250 ESRS E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.5 250 ESRS E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.6 251 ESRS E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 4.2.6.7 251 ESRS E4-6 Anticipated financial effects from biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.6.8 251 ESRS IRO-1 E5 Description of the processes to identify and assess material resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.1 252 ESRS E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.1 4.2.7.3.1 4.2.7.4.1 252 ESRS E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.2 4.2.7.3.2 4.2.7.4.2 253 ESRS E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy 4.2.7.2.3 4.2.7.3.3 4.2.7.4.3 254 ESRS E5-4 Resource inflows 4.2.7.3.4 256 ESRS E5-5 Resource outflows 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 37 (d) Non-recycled waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 ESRS E5-5 39 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste x 4.2.7.4.4 259 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 301"
"ESRS E5-6 Anticipated financial effects from resource use and circular economy-related impacts, risks and opportunities 4.2.7.5 259 ESRS 2 SBM-2 S1 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.3.1.1 261 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.3.1.2 261 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 14 (f) Forced labor risk x 4.3.1.2 262 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S1 14 (g) Child labor risk x 4.3.1.2 262 ESRS S1-1 Policies related to own workforce 4.3.1.3 263 ESRS S1-1 20 Human rights policy commitments x 4.3.1.3 263 ESRS S1-1 21 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions 1 to 8 x 4.3.1.3 267 ESRS S1-1 22 Processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings x 4.3.1.3 268 ESRS S1-1 23 Workplace accident prevention policy or management system x 4.3.1.3 266 ESRS S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers' representatives about impacts 4.3.1.4 268 ESRS S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 4.3.1.5 269 ESRS S1-3 32 (c) Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms x 4.3.1.5 270 ESRS S1-4 Taking action on material impacts, and approaches to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of those actions and approaches 4.3.1.6 270 ESRS S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities 4.3.1.7 276 ESRS S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 4.3.1.8 278 ESRS S1-7 Characteristics of non-employee workers in the undertaking's own workforce 4.3.1.9 279 ESRS S1-8 Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 4.3.1.10 279 ESRS S1-9 Diversity metrics 4.3.1.11 280 ESRS S1-10 Adequate wages 4.3.1.12 280 ESRS S1-11 Social protection 4.3.1.13 280 ESRS S1-12 Persons with disabilities 4.3.1.14 280 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 302 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS S1-13 Training and skills development metrics 4.3.1.15 280 ESRS S1-14 Health and safety metrics 4.3.1.16 281 ESRS S1-14 88 (b) and (c) Number of fatalities and number and rate of work-related accidents x 4.3.1.16 281 ESRS S1-14 88 (e) Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness x 4.3.1.16 281 ESRS S1-15 Work-life balance metrics 4.3.1.17 281 ESRS S1-16 Remuneration metrics (pay gap and total remuneration) 4.3.1.18 281 ESRS S1-16 97 (a) Unadjusted gender pay gap x 4.3.1.18 281 ESRS S1-16 97 (b) Excessive CEO pay ratio x 4.3.1.18 281 ESRS S1-17 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts 4.3.1.19 281 ESRS S1-17 103 (a) Incidents of discrimination x 4.3.1.19 281 ESRS S1-17 104 (a) Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD guidelines x 4.3.1.19 281 ESRS 2 SBM-2 S2 Interests and views of stakeholders 4.3.2.1 282 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S2 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 4.3.2.2 282 ESRS 2 SBM-3 S2 11 (b) Significant risk of child labour or forced labour in the value chain x 4.3.2.2 282 ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers 4.3.2.3 283 ESRS S2-1 17 Human rights policy commitments x 4.3.2.3 283 ESRS S2-1 18 Policies related to value chain workers x 4.3.2.3 283 ESRS S2-1 19 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD guidelines x 4.3.2.3 283 ESRS S2-1 19 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions 1 to 8 x x 4.3.2.3 283 ESRS S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 4.3.2.4 284 ESRS S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 4.3.2.5 284 Disclosure Requirement Data points SFDR reference Pillar 3 reference Benchmark Regulation reference EU Climate Law reference Section Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 303"
"d) Taking action to address negative impacts on people and the environment. This is addressed under: i) ESRS 2 MDR-A; and ii) ESRS 2 MDR-A topical ESRS DR E1-3 ESRS E1 § 28-29 GHG emission reduction 4.2.3.6 Page 228 DR E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 4.2.4.3 Page 239 DR E3-2 Actions and resources related to water 4.2.5.3 Page 246 DR E4-3 Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity and ecosystems 4.2.6.4 Page 250 DR S1-4 Social actions: Working conditions 4.3.1.6 Page 276 DR S1-4 Social actions: Health and Safety 4.3.1.6 Page 272 DR S1-4 Social actions: Diversity, equity and inclusion 4.3.1.6 Page 273 DR S1-4 Social actions: Other work-related rights 4.3.1.6 Page 275 DR S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers/Duty-of-care plan 4.3.2.6 Page 284 DR S4-4 ESRS S4 § 31 Actions to prevent, mitigate or remediate material negative impacts on consumers and/or end-users 4.3.3.4.2 Page 288 DR G1-3 ESRS G1 § 16 Valeo’s anti-corruption program 4.4.5 Page 296 Assessment of suppliers’ sustainability practices 4.4.4 Page 294 e) Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts. This is addressed under: i) ESRS 2 MDR-M; ii) ESRS 2 MDR-T; and iii) Thematic ESRS: metrics and targets. DR E1-6 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050 4.2.3.9 Page 234 DR E2-3 Targets related to pollution DR E2-4 Air, water and soil pollution 4.2.4.4 4.2.4.5 Page 241 DR E3-3 Targets related to water DR E3-4 Water consumption 4.2.5.4 4.2.5.5 Page 247 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Working conditions 4.3.1.7 Page 276 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Health and safety DR S1-14 Health and safety metrics 4.3.1.7 4.3.1.16 Page 276 Page 281 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Equal treatment and opportunities for all 4.3.1.7 Page 277 DR S1-5 Targets related to impacts: Other work-related rights 4.3.1.7 Page 277 ESRS S1 metrics 4.3.1.10 to 4.3.1.18 Pages 279 to 281 DR S2-5 Targets related to value chain workers 4.3.2.7 Page 286 Chapter Page SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 307"
"Appendix 3 – Table of information incorporated by reference DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.7 ""Sustainability auditor’s report"" Page 342 DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.1.2.4 “Statement on due diligence” Page 194 DR BP1 4.1.1.1 Page 187 Section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy” Page 206 ESRS 2 § 3 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 3 “Scope of consolidation” to the consolidated financial statements Page 365 ESRS 2 § 3 - 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.1.1.2.1 “Reporting of environmental data” paragraph “Changes in scope” Page 189 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.2 “Environmental information” Page 205 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.3 “Social information” Page 260 ESRS 2 § 5 4.1.1.2 Page 188 Section 4.4 “Governance information – Business conduct” Page 290 ESRS 2 § 10 4.1.1.3.2 Page 190 Section 4.1.1.3.3 “Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty” Page 190 ESRS 2 § 11 4.1.1.3.3 Page 190 Section 4.1.1.2.1 “Reporting of environmental data” Page 189 ESRS 2 § 15 4.1.1.3.5 Page 190 Appendix 1 “Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 16)” Page 298 ESRS 2 § 16 4.1.1.3.6 Page 190 Appendix 3 “Table of information incorporated by reference” Page 308 ESRS 2 § 21 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2 “Composition of the Board of Directors, and preparation and organization of its work” Page 103 ESRS 2 § 21 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.1 ""Executive bodies"" Page 102 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work” Page 133 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work” Page 133 ESRS 2 § 22 4.1.2.1 Page 191 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.1 ""Executive bodies"" Page 102 ESRS 2 § 23 4.1.2.1 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.1 “Composition of the Board of Directors”, paragraph “Presentation of directors for the 2024 financial year” Page 104 ESRS 2 § 23 4.1.2.1 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Directors' training” Page 135 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 “Corporate governance”, section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Role of the Board of Directors” Page 136 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Committee activity during the year” Page 140 ESRS 2 § 26 4.1.2.2 Page 193 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.2.2 “Preparation and organization of the Board of Directors’ work”, paragraph “Committee activity during the year” Page 140 ESRS 2 § 29 4.1.2.3 Page 194 Chapter 3 ""Corporate governance"", section 3.3.1 ""Compensation of corporate officers"", paragraph ""Overview of the compensation policies for the corporate officers in respect of the 2024 financial year"", section 3.3.2 ""Compensation of corporate officers in respect of the 2024 financial year"", and section 3.3.3 ""Overall compensation of other Group senior executives"" Page 152 ESRS 2 § 30 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Appendix 2 – Mapping of information provided on the due diligence process Page 306 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Chapter 2 ""Risks and Risk Management"", and section 4.1.4 ""Impact, risk and opportunity management"" Pages 81 and 201 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph ""Other work-related rights"" Page 267 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Health and safety” Page 266 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 308 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.2.4 “Pollution” Page 236 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS 2 § 32 4.1.2.4 Page 194 Appendix 2 – Mapping of information provided on the due diligence process Page 306 ESRS 2 § 36 4.1.2.5 Page 195 Chapter 2 ""Risks and Risk Management"", section 2.3 ""Internal control and risk management"" Page 93 ESRS 2 § 36 4.1.2.5 Page 195 Section 4.7 ""Report on the certification of Sustainability and Taxonomy information” Page 342 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Chapter 1, section 1.4 ""Operational organization"" Page 55 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Management report “Group positioning” Page 42 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS 2 § 40 4.1.3.1 Page 195 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities”, paragraph “Value chain and dependency analysis” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.3 “Strategy and business model” Page 195 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.4 “Impact, risk and opportunity management” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 48 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.3 “Strategy and business model” Page 195 ESRS 2 § 49 4.1.3.3 Page 200 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS 2 § 53 4.1.4.1 Page 201 Section 2.1 “Risk factors” Page 82 ESRS 2 § 56 4.1.4.2 Page 203 Appendix 1 “Cross-reference table (DR related to ESRS 2 § 15 and § 56)” Page 298 ESRS 2 § 59 4.1.4.2 Page 203 Chapter 4 “Sustainability Report”, section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify material sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities”, paragraph “Methodology and assessment process” Page 201 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.3 Page 203 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 14 ""List of consolidated companies"" Page 423 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.3 Page 208 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, section 4.2.3.6 “Climate-related actions and resources”, section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030”, section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050”) Pages 223, 228, 229, 234 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 209 Note 5.1 ""Sales"" to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Page 371 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 209 Notes 7.2 ""Other intangible assets"" and 7.3 ""Property, plant and equipment"" to the consolidated financial statements presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Pages 389 to 393 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Note 7.2 ""Other intangible assets"" to the consolidated financial statements, presented in section 5.4.6 of this document Page 389 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Section 4.2.3 “Climate strategy” Page 217 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 210 Section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments” Page 205 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.4 Page 211 Section 4.2.6.4 “Policies related to biodiversity” Page 250 European Green Taxonomy 4.2.2.6 Page 216 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Financing” Page 223 ESRS E1 4.2.3 Page 217 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation” Page 223 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 309"
"ESRS E1 § 13 4.2.3.1 Page 217 Section 4.1.2.3 “Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes” Page 194 ESRS E1 § 19 4.2.3.2 Page 218 Appendix 4 – GRI – SASB – TCFD cross-reference tables Page 315 ESRS E1 § 19 4.2.3.2 Page 218 Section 4.2.3.3.1 ""Analysis of physical and transition risks"" Section 4.2.3.3.2 ""Adaptation of strategy and business model"" Pages 219, 222 ESRS E1 § 20 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E1 § 21 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E1 § 21 4.2.3.3 Page 219 Sections 4.2.3.2 ""Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model"", and 4.1.3.3 ""Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model"" Pages 218, 200 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks” Page 219 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation”, paragraph “Investments and funding to support the implementation of the transition plan"" Page 223 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 1.3 “Consideration of the impacts of climate change” Page 363 ESRS E1/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.3.3.2 Page 222 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 7.4.6 “Sensitivity of impairment tests to the impacts of climate change” Page 397 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 224 Section 4.2.3.6 “Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies” Page 228 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6 “Notes to the consolidated financial statements”, Notes 1.3.6 “Financing” and 9.1.2.1 “Long-term debt” Pages 364, 402 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.2.2.5 “Taxonomy KPI tables” Page 212 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.1.2 “Composition of the Board of Directors and objectives” Page 191 ESRS E1 § 16 4.2.3.4 Page 226 Section 4.2.3.8 “Energy consumption” and section 4.2.3.9 “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050” Pages 233, 234 ESRS E1 § 29 4.2.3.6 Page 229 Section 4.2.2 “European Green Taxonomy” Page 206 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 231 Section 4.2.3.9 ""Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the Carbon Neutrality Contribution Plan for 2050” Page 234 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 232 Section 4.2.3.4 “CAP 50: Transition plan for climate change mitigation” Page 223 ESRS E1 § 34 4.2.3.7 Page 232 Section 4.2.3.3.1 “Analysis of physical and transition risks” Page 219 ESRS E1 § 47 4.2.3.9 Page 234 Section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030” Page 229 ESRS E1 § 50 4.2.3.9 Page 234 Section 4.2.3.7 “A clear vision for contributing to carbon neutrality by 2050 with an ambitious intermediate target for 2030” Page 229 ESRS E2/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.4.1 Page 237 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E2/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.4.1 Page 237 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E2-1 § 12 to 15 4.2.4.2 Page 237 Section 4.2.1 “Environmental policies and commitments” Page 205 ESRS E2-1 § 12 to 15 4.2.4.2 Page 238 Section 4.2.7.4 “Waste” Page 257 ESRS E2 § 19 4.2.4.3 Page 240 Section 4.2.7.4 “Waste” Page 257 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 310 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.2.3.3.1 ""Analysis of physical and transition risks"", paragraph “Physical risks - Analysis methodology"" Page 219 ESRS E3/ESRS 2 IRO-1 4.2.5.1 Page 245 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 16 4.2.6.2 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 17 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E4 § 17 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E4 § 19 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 19 4.2.6.3 Page 249 Section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 249 ESRS E4 § 23 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.2.6.5 “Actions and resources dedicated to biodiversity” Page 250 ESRS E4 § 24 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 24 4.2.6.4 Page 250 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS E4 § 35 4.2.6.7 Page 251 Section 4.2.6.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 249 ESRS E5 § 11 4.2.7.1 Page 252 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS E5 § 11 4.2.7.1 Page 252 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS E5 § 14 - 15 4.2.7.2.1 Page 253 Section 4.2.5 ""Water resources"" and section 4.2.7.4 ""Waste"" Pages 244,257 ESRS E5 § 35 4.2.7.2.4 Page 255 Section 4.2.7.2.2 “Actions and resources related to circular economy” Page 253 ESRS E5 § 16 4.2.7.4.1 Page 257 Section 4.2.7.2.1 “Policies related to circular economy – 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 16 4.2.7.4.2 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.2 “Circular economy: 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 23 - 24 4.2.7.4.3 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.2 “Circular economy: 4R program” Page 252 ESRS E5 § 23-24 4.2.7.4.3 Page 258 Section 4.2.7.3 “Resource inflows” Page 256 ESRS E5-6 4.2.7.5 Page 259 Section 4.2.2.2 “Summary of KPIs” Page 206 ESRS S1 4 Page 260 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 12 4.3.1.1 Page 261 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 262 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 262 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.3 “The Group’s employee policy” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.6 “Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 13 4.3.1.2 Page 263 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 262 Section 4.3.1.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 261 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 262 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 265 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 266 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 311"
"ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Diversity” Page 266 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Diversity” Page 266 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Secure employment"" Page 264 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 267 Section 4.1.2.4 “Statement on due diligence” Page 194 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 268 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 17 4.3.1.3 Page 268 Section 4.3.1.3 “Freedom of association, the existence of works councils and the information, consultation and participation rights of workers” Page 265 ESRS S1 § 32 4.3.1.5 Page 269 Sections 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"" and 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"" in the following paragraphs ""Secure employment"", ""Working time"", ""Adequate wages"", ""Health and safety"", ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"", ""Employment and inclusion of people with disabilities"", ""Diversity, equity, inclusion"", ""Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace"", ""Training and skills development"" Pages 263, 270 ESRS S1 § 35 - 37 - 38 - 39 - 40 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Sections 4.3.1.1 ""Strong employee relations"" and 4.3.1.4 ""Commitments related to Valeo's own workforce"" Pages 261, 268 ESRS S1 § 41 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, and 4.3.3.4 “Impacts related to consumer and/or end-user safety” Pages 263, 288 ESRS S1 § 42 - 43 - 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Chapter 1, section 1.6.9 “Human Resources” Page 79 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Employee Engagement (EE) roadmaps"" Page 263 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Training and skills development"" Page 275 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 270 Section 4.3.1.4 “Commitments related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 268 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.12 ""Adequate wages"" Page 280 ESRS S1 § 43 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 43 4.3.1.6 Page 271 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Social dialogue"" Page 271 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 272 Section 4.3.1.3 ""Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Work-life balance"" Page 271 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 272 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Health and safety”, page XXX); Page 266 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Chapter 3, section 3.3.1 “Compensation policies for corporate officers”, paragraph “Overview of the compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer in respect of the 2024 financial year” Page 152 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Employment and inclusion of people with disabilities"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 273 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 274 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Diversity, Equity, Inclusion"" Page 273 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Diversity, Equity, Inclusion"" Page 273 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.8 “Change in Valeo’s headcount” Page 278 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 275 Section 4.3.1.6 “Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace” Page 275 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices 312 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024"
"ESRS S1 § 45 4.3.1.6 Page 276 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace” Page 275 ESRS S1 § 44 4.3.1.7 Page 276 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce” Page 263 ESRS S1 § 44 - 46 - 47 4.3.1.7 Page 276 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Social dialogue” Page 265 ESRS S1 § 44 - 46 - 47 4.3.1.7 Page 277 Section 4.3.1.6 ""Actions related to Valeo’s own workforce"", ""Gender equality and equal pay for work of equal value"" Page 274 ESRS S1 § 44 - 46 - 47 4.3.1.7 Page 277 Section 4.3.1.3 “Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce”, paragraph “Measures against violence and harassment in the workplace” Page 267 ESRS S1 § 50 4.3.1.8 Page 278 Section 5.4.6 ""Notes to the consolidated financial statements"", Note 6 ""Personnel expenses and employee benefits"" Page 380 ESRS S1 § 50 4.3.1.8 Page 278 Section 4.3.1.9 “Change in non-employee workers in Valeo’s own workforce” Page 279 ESRS S1 § 65 4.3.1.11 Page 280 Chapter 3, section 3.2.1 ""Composition of the Board of Directors"", paragraph ""Diversity policy within the Board of Directors"" Page 111 ESRS S1 § 74 - 75 4.3.1.13 Page 280 Chapter 5, section 5.4.6, Note 6.3.1 ""Description of the plans in force within the Group"" Page 381 ESRS S1 § 88 4.3.1.16 Page 281 Section 4.3.1.7 ""Targets related to material impacts, risks, and opportunities"", paragraph ""Health and safety"" Page 276 ESRS S2 § 9 4.3.2.1 Page 282 Section 4.3.2.2 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 282 ESRS S2 § 9 4.3.2.1 Page 282 Section 4.3.2.3 ""Policies related to value chain workers"" and 4.3.2.5 ""Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns"" Pages 283,284 ESRS S2 § 10 4.3.2.2 Page 282 Section 4.3.2.6 “Taking action on material impacts, risks and opportunities related to value chain workers” Page 284 ESRS S2 § 11 4.3.2.2 Page 282 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS S2 § 11 4.3.2.2 Page 282 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS S2 § 11 4.3.2.2 Page 282 Section 4.3.2.6 “Taking action on material impacts, risks and opportunities related to value chain workers” Page 284 ESRS S2 § 16 4.3.2.3 Page 283 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS S2 § 16 4.3.2.3 Page 283 Section 4.3.1.3 "" Policy related to Valeo’s own workforce"", paragraph ""Other work-related rights"" Page 267 ESRS S2 § 16 4.3.2.3 Page 283 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS S2 § 19 4.3.2.3 Page 283 Section 4.3.2.6 “Taking action on material impacts, risks and opportunities related to value chain workers” Page 284 ESRS S2 § 22 - 23 4.3.2.4 Page 284 Section 4.3.2.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns” Page 284 ESRS S2 § 22 - 23 4.3.2.4 Page 284 Section 4.3.2.3 “Policies related to value chain workers” and section 4.3.2.6 “Action on material impacts, risks and opportunities related to value chain workers” Pages 283,284 ESRS S2 § 27 4.3.2.5 Page 284 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 ESRS S2 § 28 4.3.2.5 Page 284 Section 4.3.2.3 “Policies related to value chain workers” Page 283 ESRS S2 § 28 4.3.2.5 Page 284 Section 4.3.1.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns” Page 269 ESRS S2 § 32 4.3.2.6 Page 284 Section 4.3.2.5 “Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns” Page 284 ESRS S2 § 38 4.3.2.6 Page 285 Section 4.3.2.4 “Engaging with value chain workers” Page 284 ESRS S4 § 9 4.3.3.2 Page 286 Section 4.1.3.3 “Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model” Page 200 ESRS S4 § 10 4.3.3.2 Page 286 Section 4.1.4.1 “Processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities” Page 201 ESRS S4 § 16 4.3.3.4.1 Page 288 Section 4.4.4 “Responsible purchasing” Page 293 Disclosure Requirement Incorporation by reference Pages Section of the sustainability statement Pages SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendices UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALEO 2024 313"
