"Pollution 305 generally stipulate that SVHCs must be avoided and substituted. On this basis, vehicle-related chemicals and components of all-electric vehicles are analyzed in accordance with the requirements of the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the substitutability of SVHCs in these products is reviewed together with suppliers, taking into account technical and economic criteria. The “EU Taxonomy” chapter provides a specific overview of the compo- nents considered in the Volkswagen Group. Prevention and control of emissions to water In the interests of water protection, the Volkswagen Group does not discharge untreated wastewater resulting from the Group’s activities into receiving waters. Pretreatment plants are usually used to remove pollutants from wastewater that cannot be removed in a biological wastewater treatment plant. For example, light liquid and grease separators, evaporators and oil skimmers are installed to remove fat, oil and emulsions. By contrast, metals are removed by means of the physico-chemical precipitation process. COD is practically eliminated through adsorption, filtration or flotation processes. The final step before discharge is biological treatment of the pretreated wastewater using a membrane bioreactor to remove potential pollutants such as phosphorus and nitrogen. If the wastewater is not treated at the production site itself, it is treated in an external treatment plant or disposed of appropriately as waste. In line with the Zero Impact Factory strategic vision, further actions are being considered in production with regard to pollutants in wastewater: In the interests of preventive water protection, for example, when working with substances that are potentially hazardous to water, it is important to ensure that the relevant containers are fitted with a secondary barrier for retention in the event of an accident. Additionally, the site checklist for waste- water discharge specifies maximum concentrations for the discharge of certain pollutants into wastewater, irrespective of the legal requirements at the site in question. Compliance with measurement obligations is ensured by regular wastewater analysis, the frequency of which varies depending on the pollutant, and is based on the legal and internal requirements (in certain cases, samples are taken several times a day). Prevention and control of emissions to air The Volkswagen Group is committed to continuously reducing its air emissions in its own activities and in the supply chain. Within the company’s own operations, in addition to the actions for compliance with all legal requi- rements, the impact points target serves to reduce the absolute environmental impacts of the production sites, and also takes air emissions into account. In addition, the site checklist defines criteria including the use of VOC-reduced rinsing thinners and paints, requirements for VOC emissions from paint shops and restrictions on dust emissions. In the upstream and downstream value chain, compliance with the Code of Conduct for Business Partners is intended to reduce the emission of air pollutants by requiring business partners to implement appropriate actions to reduce air pollution. By transforming its portfolio towards e-mobility, the Volkswagen Group is also making a contribution to improving local air quality by reducing nitrogen oxide and particulate matter emissions (for more information see the “Actions and resources: climate change” section of the “Climate change” chapter). Sustainability Report"
"Pollution 306 Engagement in the upstream and downstream value chains for raw materials The Volkswagen Group is aware that its suppliers’ business activities can have a significant impact on people and the environment. The extraction and processing of some of raw materials for the automotive industry is associated with environmental risks, such as air and water pollution, as well as deforestation. To enable greater transparency, the Group publishes a Responsible Raw Materials Report. This provides detailed information on the Volkswagen Group’s methodologies and activities in the context of the RMDDMS for sustainable raw material procurement. The RMDDMS includes continuous risk-based due diligence reviews to identify and assess actual and poten- tial negative impacts as well as potential human rights risks in the supply chain. The supply chains for sustain- able raw materials sourcing require a particular focus, as the Volkswagen Group’s risk analysis reveals a high exposure to human and environmental risks that occur more frequently among indirect suppliers. The RMDDMS provides additional assessments for high-risk raw materials, which enable risk mitigation and actions to prevent systematic risks and reviews of their effectiveness. At present, 18 raw materials are identified as particularly risky. These include the battery raw materials cobalt, lithium, nickel and graphite, the conflict minerals tin, tungs- ten, tantalum and gold (3TG), and aluminum, copper, leather, mica, steel, natural rubber, platinum group metals, rare earths, magnesium and cotton. Audits are one of the main tools of the RMDDMS, serving to assess risks in the Volkswagen Group’s lower supply chains and derive risk mitigation actions. They supplement other raw material due diligence tools and promote transparency, compliance and a culture of continual improvement and dialog throughout the upstream supply chain. Further actions that can be derived from the RMDDMS are described in the “Workers in the value chain” chapter. The Volkswagen Group includes the responsibility of its business partners in its commitment to improving the supply chain. For this reason, the Code of Conduct for Business Partners requires business partners to implement appropriate actions to eliminate or avoid using substances and materials that adversely impact people and the environment (for example carcinogenic substances, mutagens or reprotoxic substances). The Volkswagen Group aims to procure responsible sourcing of raw materials and is guided by the five steps of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Respon- sible Business Conduct and the requirements of the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Accordingly, business partners may only use raw materials in smelting works or refineries of materials that meet the requirements of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. They must also have been verified by the Responsible Mineral Initiative (RMI) or similar organizations. The Volkswagen Group expects its suppliers to avoid all minerals from conflict-affected smelting works. However, the aim is not to prohibit the procurement of conflict minerals or other products originating from conflict-affected and high-risk areas, but to encourage the procurement from responsible sources within these regions. The identification of the 3TG smelting works and refiners used by suppliers or their sub-suppliers must be disclosed annually. In line with international best practices, the Volkswagen Group also expects its suppliers to complete Conflict Mineral Re- porting Templates (CMRT). As well as identifying the smelting works and refiners, this template also allows the countries of origin of the mined materials to be specified. Compliance with the OECD guidance is assessed using the RMI’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). The RMAP is an independent third-party assessment of the management systems and sourcing practices of smelting works/refineries to confirm compliance. To underscore its commitment to responsible supply chains for conflict minerals, the Volkswagen Group voluntarily publishes a CMRT to ensure end-to-end transparency. Sustainability Report"
"Pollution 307 METRICS: POLLUTION Air and water pollution Metrics on emissions into air and water The metrics recorded across the Group are shown in the following. If thresholds for other air or water emissions as defined by the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) are exceeded at European produc- tion sites, the sites report this to the competent authorities as part of their annual reporting obligations. EMISSIONS INTO AIR AND WATER Unit 2024 2023 Volkswagen Group Companies with operational control Volkswagen Group Companies with operational control Air emissions VOC1 tons 10,963 979 10,635 1,384 CHCs tons 5.7 4.2 8.3 5.5 HFCs tons 22.6 6.1 27.4 7.5 NOx1 tons 1,126.1 332.0 1,209.5 334.1 SO21, 2 tons 0.0 371.4 399.3 378.9 Dust (PM10) 1, 2 tons 148.4 0.0 138.0 0.0 CO1, 2 tons 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Water emissions tons TOC1, 2 tons 463.1 157.9 578.9 259.3 Zinc1, 2, 3 tons 2.2 0.3 - - Nickel1, 2, 3 tons 2.6 0.2 - - Dissolved fluoride1, 2, 3 tons 26.6 17.9 - - 1 Only sites that exceed the threshold as defined by the E-PRTR (Annex II). 2 This metric does not include the TRATON GROUP sites. 3 No reporting possible for the 2023 reporting year. The information for 2023 is provided voluntarily and has not been externally validated. Description of measurement methodologies Group standard 98000 defines indicators for emissions to enable their consistent collection at Volkswagen Group sites. They include the recording of pollutants discharged into wastewater such as zinc, nickel, COD, total organic carbon (TOC) and dissolved fluoride as well as air emissions such as dust, VOCs, nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2), CFCs and HFCs. The recording hierarchy in accordance with Group standard 98000 applies in conjunction with the permitted measurement methods described in the standard. These are parameter- specific and based on the state of the art. Context information on pollution of air The Volkswagen Group’s production sites record a range of environmentally relevant air emissions, irrespective of national legislation or regulatory requirements. These include refrigerants containing climate-relevant CFCs or HFCs, for which the quantities emitted from stationary facilities are recorded. Emissions from combustion processes, such as nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide (CO) and sulfur dioxide, are calculated by multiplying the quantities of fuel used by country-specific emission factors, unless more precise, site-specific emission factors are available. In addition, the VOC emissions, which are mainly released during painting processes, are recorded. When calculating VOC emissions, as a minimum those emissions required by national legislation or plant permits are recorded. VOC emissions from painting facilities must be calculated for all vehicle paint shops. If VOC emis- sions are combusted through thermal post-combustion or regenerative post-combustion, the CO2 emissions released must also be recorded. With regard to recording particulate matter with a diameter of 10 μm or less (particulate matter 10 – PM10), it is permitted to record the total dust quantity and then convert it into PM10 using conversion factors. Sustainability Report"
"Pollution 308 Context information on pollution of water The data collection interval and analytical methods for the pollutant concentrations contained in the wastewater are based on the requirements of the site approvals and/or relevant laws (in Germany, for example the AbwV) and vary from quarterly measurements to daily measurements, depending on the pollutant. In addition, Group standard VW 98000 sets certain minimum standards for specific pollutants, which are to be sampled at least quarterly and based on relevant ISO standards. Additionally, the scope of the analysis should represent at least 80% of the total volume of a site’s wastewater. DIN EN ISO 10304-1 is used to measure dissolved fluoride in wastewater. The specifications of DIN EN 1484 are used to measure TOC. Alternatively, the COD can be measured and converted into TOC. The specifications of DIN EN ISO 11885 are used for zinc and nickel emissions. The reported annual emission quantities into wastewater typically result from multiplying the measured waste- water volumes and the averaged, analytically determined concentrations of the relevant pollutants. Processes for recording and accounting Each site is responsible for providing the environmental indicators. The environmental indicators are recorded in the EIS in accordance with Group standard 98000 and validated at Group level. The sites must work towards ensuring that the environmental indicators are determined for each specified recording interval using the same system. Year-on-year changes in excess of a predefined tolerance level must be justified. Information sources Permitted measurement methods are generally based on national and international laws and regulations (for example German Federal Emission Control Act, EU F-Gas Regulation), internationally recognized standards and norms (for example GHG, ISO standards), industry-specific requirements (for example VDA emission factors) and scientific findings (for example IPCC assessment reports). Reasons for choosing alternative methodology to quantify emissions Pursuant to the measurement hierarchy of Group standard 98000, environmental data is to be collected primarily by measurement. If direct and complete measurements are not technologically possible or not economically justifiable, calculations substantiated by measurements or by extrapolations based on assumptions may be used. This also applies where calculations or extrapolations produce results that are equivalent to direct measu- rements in terms of accuracy. The decision on the data collection methodology is made at site level. The assumptions are site-specific and are verified by random sampling. Standard, measurement uncertainty and range of estimates Pursuant to the measurement hierarchy of Group standard 98000, direct measurement of physical amounts takes priority over calculation based on parameters. Estimates are made with the lowest priority based on trans- parent assumptions. Sustainability Report"
"Pollution 309 Substances of very high concern The IMDS-SVHC list of the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA), which is derived from the ECHA candidate list, is used as the basis for recording substances of very high concern. Total amount of SVHCs generated, used or procured during production If SVHCs are used as substances or in mixtures during vehicle production, or become a component of the Auto- motive product during the production process, they have been checked, recorded and approved in advance by internal chemical management processes. An evaluation of substance-related quantities for SVHCs cannot currently be carried out in full at Group level. An approach for recording the quantities of all SVHCs used as sub- stances or in mixtures (SVHC > 0.1 M%) during vehicle production is currently being developed in conjunction with Procurement. This is intended to ensure that the total quantity of SVHCs (kg/a) procured and used can be recorded in future. If different chemical substances are combined during the production process, such as in process baths, there is a possibility of new chemical compounds forming on a small scale. Due to the small quantities involved, these are not currently recorded. Total amount of SVHCs generated in production in the form of emissions The Volkswagen Group and the operators at the sites of the individual brands always act in accordance with the applicable legal requirements. The sites and systems technology have been approved by the authorities in accordance with these requirements. This applies in particular to environment-relevant installations, where ope- rations generate emissions to air and water, resulting in extensive operator obligations being outlined in their plant permits. Within the framework of such ancillary provisions, recurrent emission measurements are also conducted to ensure compliance with applicable limits. To facilitate Group-wide compliance with all binding commitments on production-related emissions, the Volkswagen Group has implemented the Three Lines Model described in the “Actions and resources: pollution” section. There is currently no limit that encompasses the full range of all known SVHCs. There is also no measurement method for recording the total spectrum of all SVHCs. It is therefore not possible to gather data on these emissi- ons in accordance with the latest advancements. Total amount of SVHCs generated in production as part of products The total amount is calculated for each SVHC. To do this, the proportion by weight per SVHC is first determined for each component containing SVHCs (threshold of 0.1% per smallest relevant item in the component according to REACH Article 33) and added up for the corresponding reference vehicles (ID.4 and Tiguan) (for more informa- tion on the reference vehicles, see the “Metrics: resource use and circular economy” section in the “Resource use and circular economy” chapter). Calculation of the total amount of each SVHC is based on production figures for battery-electric vehicles and internal combustion engine vehicles. Lastly, the SVHCs are allocated to the repor- table hazard classes. As individual substances can be allocated to multiple hazard classes, the overall total amount does not correspond to the sum of the individual hazard classes due to double entry. Nevertheless, in order to provide a total amount of the SVHCs used, the total weight per substance is allocated to only one hazard class in the following table. In addition, the SVHC information for the Porsche AG Group and TRATON GROUP is provided below, exclu- ding the consideration of MAN Energy Solutions. The values are determined as described above. Sustainability Report"
