"[E1-6 continued] GHG emissions intensity (Żabka Polska) Data Point Unit 2024 GHG emissions intensity, location-based (total GHG emissions in metric tonnes of CO2eq per net revenue in million Polish zloty) 137.9 GHG emissions intensity, market-based (total GHG emissions in metric tonnes of CO2eq per net revenue in million Polish zloty) 130.5 Net revenue used to calculate GHG intensity Million Polish zloty 22,783 Contextual information The emission intensity was calculated as the GHG emissions in a given scope divided by the sales revenues in Polish złoty. For Scope 2, GHG emissions calculated on the basis of the market-based criterion were used. GHG emissions are expressed as CO2 equivalent and include greenhouse gases according to the GHG Protocol. [E1-7] GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits In 2024 the Żabka Group did not carry out projects to remove greenhouse gases or reduce of GHG emissions using carbon credits. [E1-8] Internal carbon pricing In 2024 the Group did not use internal carbon pricing schemes. [E1-9] Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related opportunities For details regarding the conducted analysis of anticipated financial effects from material physical risks please refer to section C.3.1. Decarbonisation. The Żabka Group plans to disclose quantitatively calculated risks in years to come. ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems – Metrics [E4-3] Biodiversity offsets In 2024, the Żabka Group did not use biodiversity offsets. [E4-5] Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change Data Point Unit 2024 Number of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that are negatively affected by our operations Number of sites 1 Area of sites owned, leased or managed in or near protected areas or key biodiversity areas that are negatively affected by our operations Hectares 0.38 Contextual information The site is a warehouse located 600 m from a landscape park (Chojnowski Park Krajobrazowy) and a protected landscape area (Warszawski Obszar Chronionego Krajobrazu). The area of the site presented in the table is the area of the warehouse. [E4-6] Anticipated financial effects from biodiversity and ecosystem-related risks and opportunities The Żabka Group has not yet calculated the anticipated financial risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems, but it plans to analyse and calculate the risks in years to come. 97 2024 Annual Report C.1. 2024 ESG highlights C.2. Sustainability reporting - general information C.4. Social C.5. Governance C.6. Appendix C.3. Environment A D B C Introduction Management report Sustainability statement Financial statements"
